MADISON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord.387, passed 8-14-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 353
CITY OF MADISON, MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book;
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Madison, Minnesota does hereby
ordain:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are herby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison, Minnesota.” This
Code of Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative
rules of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION         TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS          TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE         TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or settling the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances.
Section 4. This Ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to be made available for public viewing and shall furnish a copy
of the Code of Ordinances to the local public library. The official copy of
this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and kept in the Office of the City
Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect January 1, 2008.
Passed by the Council this 10th day of December, 2007.
   By:____________________________
   Greg Thole, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________
Kathleen Weber, City Clerk                
Ayes:      Volk, Thole, Meyer, Zahrbock, and Gail.
Nayes:   None.
Date of Publication: The Western Guard, on December 19, 2007
ORDINANCE NO. 378
CITY OF MADISON, MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF MADISON, MINNESOTA.
THE CITY OF MADISON, MINNESOTA, DOES HEREBY ORDAIN:
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since adopting the codification and printing of ordinances
pursuant to Ordinance No. 353, effective January 1, 2008; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
MADISON, MINNESOTA:
Section 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, which included Ordinances:
354   Liquor Regulations               367   Solid Fuel Heating
355   Sanitation Collection            368   Amend Side Yard
356   Tree Amendment               369   Residential Parking
357   Mayor Council Salaries            370   Alley Vacation
358   Water Service Pipes            371   Amend Accessory Structure
359   Utility Bill Adjustments            372   Lodging Tax Repeal
360   Federated Telephone Franchise         373   Chicken Ordinance
361   Farmers Mutual Cable Franchise         374   Opting Out Health Care
Dwelling
362   Tall Grass Abatement            375   MN Energy Franchise
363   Golf Cart Ordinance               376   MN Energy Franchise Fee
364   Noise                     377   Amending Groundwater Connections
365   Electric Utility
366   ATV Adjust Fees
And all other amendments, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City of Madison and the Clerk of the City is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the City Office.
 
Passed by the Madison City Council this 27th day of February, 2017.
Those voting for: Volk, Thole, Meyer, Zahrbock, Conroy
Against: None
Absent: None
 
   By: /s/ Greg Thole
   Mayor
Attest:          
/s/ Kathleen Weber
City Clerk
 
Date of Publication: The Western Guard, on March 8, 2017
CITY CHARTER
Section
Ch. 1. Name, Boundaries, Powers and General Provisions
   
1.01   Name and boundaries
   
1.02   Powers of the city
Ch. 2. Form of Government
   
2.01   Form of government
   
2.02   Boards and commissions
   
2.03   Council composition and election
   
2.04   Incompatible offices
   
2.05   Vacancies
   
2.06   The Mayor
   
2.07   Salaries
   
2.08   Investigation of city affairs
   
2.09   Interferences with administration
Ch. 3: Council Procedure
   
3.01   Council meetings
   
3.02   Secretary of Council
   
3.03   Rules of procedure and quorum
   
3.04   Ordinances, resolutions and motions
   
3.05   Procedure on ordinances
   
3.06   Emergency ordinances
   
3.065   Zoning ordinances
   
3.07   Procedure on resolutions
   
3.08   Signing and publication or ordinances and resolutions
   
3.09   When ordinances and resolutions take effect
   
3.10   Amendment and repeal of ordinances and resolutions
   
3.11   Revision and modification of ordinances
Ch. 4: Nominations and Elections
   
4.01   The regular municipal election
   
4.02   Special elections
   
4.03   Filing for office
   
4.04   Procedure at elections
Ch. 5: Initiative and Referendum
   
5.01   General voter authority
   
5.02   Petitions
   
5.03   Determination of sufficiency
   
5.04   Disposition of insufficient petition
   
5.05   Initiative
   
5.06   Referendum
Ch. 6: Administration of City Affairs
   
6.01   The City Manager
   
6.02   Powers and duties of the City Manager
   
6.03   Administrative organization
   
6.04   Subordinate officers
   
6.05   Purchases and contracts
Ch. 7: Taxation and Finances
   
7.01   Council to control finances
   
7.02   Fiscal year
   
7.03   System of taxation
   
7.04   Submission of budget
   
7.05   Capital improvement program
   
7.06   Council action on budget
   
7.07   Enforcement of the budget
   
7.08   Alterations in the budget
   
7.09   Funds
   
7.10   City indebtedness
   
7.11   Anticipation certificates
   
7.12   Emergency debt certificates
   
7.13   Board of equalization
Ch. 8: Public Improvements and Special Assessments
   
8.01   Power to make improvements and levy assessments
   
8.02   Assessments for services
   
8.03   Local improvement procedure
Ch. 9: Eminent Domain
   
9.01   Acquisition of property
Ch. 10: Franchises
   
10.01   Franchises required
   
10.02   Term
   
10.03   Public hearing
   
10.04   Power of regulation reserved
   
10.05   Renewals or extensions
Ch. 11: Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities
   
11.01   Acquisition and operation utilities
   
11.02   Regulations and rates
   
11.03   Lease of plant
   
11.04   Sale of public utility
Ch. 12: General Provisions
   
12.01   Official publication
   
12.02   Oath of office
   
12.03   Official bonds
   
12.04   Official interest in contracts
   
12.05   Sale of real property
   
12.06   Vacation of streets
   
12.07   City to succeed to rights and obligations of former city charter
   
12.08   Existing ordinances continued
   
12.09   Pending condemnations, improvements and assessments
   
12.10   Ordinance to make Charter effective
   
12.11   Present officers continued
   
12.12   Statutes not affected by Charter
CH. 1: NAME, BOUNDARIES AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.01 NAME AND BOUNDARIES.
   The City of Madison, Lac qui Parle County, Minnesota shall continue to be a
municipal corporation under that name and with the same boundaries as now are
or hereafter may be established.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 1.02 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The city shall have all powers, which it may now or hereafter be possible
for a municipal corporation in this state to exercise in harmony with the
constitutions of this state and of the United States. It is the intention of
this charter to confer upon the city every power, which it would have if it
were specifically mentioned. The charter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the city and the specific mention of particular municipal powers in other
sections of this charter does not limit the powers of the city to those thus
mentioned. Unless granted to some other officer or body, all powers are vested
in the city council.
   The provisions of this charter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
city, to the end that it may have all necessary powers for the efficient
conduct of its municipal affairs, as contemplated by the municipal home rule
provisions of the constitution and laws of the State of Minnesota. The specific
mention of particular municipal powers in other sections of this charter shall
not be construed as limiting the powers of the city in the premises to those
thus mentioned.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
CH. 2: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
§ 2.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government established by this charter is the "Council-Manager"
Plan. Except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, all powers of the
city are vested in the council. The city manager shall be the head of the
administrative branch of the city government and shall be responsible to the
council for the proper administration of all city affairs.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.02 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   There shall be no separate administrative board of health, library board, or
any other administrative board or commission except for the administration of a
function jointly with another political subdivision. The council shall itself
be and perform the duties and exercise the powers of such boards and
commissions provided for by statute. The council may, however, establish boards
or commissions to advise the council with respect to any municipal function or
activity, to investigate any subject of interest to the city, or to perform
quasi judicial functions.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.03 COUNCIL COMPOSITION AND ELECTION.
   The council shall be composed of a mayor and four council members who shall
be qualified electors and who shall be elected at large. Each council member
shall serve for a term of four years and until his/her successor is elected and
qualifies, except that at the first election held after the adoption of this
charter the two candidates having the highest number of votes shall serve for
four years and the other two successful candidates shall serve for two years.
The mayor shall serve for a term of two years and until his/her successor is
elected and qualifies.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.04 INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   No member of the council shall be appointed city manager, nor shall any
member hold any paid municipal office or employment under the city; and until
one year after the expiration of his/her term as mayor or council member no
former member shall be appointed to any paid appointive office or employment
under the city which was created or the compensation for which was increased
during his/her term as council member.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.05 VACANCIES.
   An elective office becomes vacant when the person elected or appointed
thereto dies before taking office or fails to qualify, or the incumbent dies,
resigns in writing filed with the city clerk, is convicted of a felony, ceases
to reside in the city, or is adjudged incompetent by a court of competent
jurisdiction. In each such case the council shall by resolution declare the
vacancy to exist and shall forthwith appoint an eligible person to fill the
vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.06 THE MAYOR.
   The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council and shall have a vote as
a member. The council shall choose from its members an acting mayor who shall
hold office at the pleasure of the council. He/she shall serve as the presiding
officer in the mayor’s absence and as mayor in case of the mayor’s disability
or absence from the city. The mayor shall be recognized as head of the city
government for all ceremonial purposes, by the courts for the purpose of
serving civil process, and by the governor for purposes of marital law, but he/
she shall have no administrative duties.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.07 SALARIES.
   The mayor and council members shall receive such compensation as is fixed by
the council in accordance with law. The city manager and all subordinate
officers and employees of the city shall receive such salaries or wages as may
be fixed by the council.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.08 INVESTIGATION OF CITY AFFAIRS.
   The council may make investigations into the affairs of the city and the
conduct of any city department, office or agency and for this purpose may
subpoena witnesses administer oaths, take testimony, and require the production
of evidence. The council shall provide for an audit of the city’s accounts at
least once a year by the state department in charge of such work or by a
certified public accountant or similarly qualified individual. At any time the
council may provide for an examination or audit of the accounts of any city
officer or agency and it may provide for any survey or research study of any
subject of municipal concern.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 2.09 INTERFERENCES WITH ADMINISTRATION.
   Neither the council nor any of its members shall dictate the appointment or
removal of any city administrative officer or employee, but the council may
express its views and freely discuss with the manager anything pertaining to
appointment and removal of officers and employees. Except for the purpose of
inquiry and investigation under § 2.08, the council and its members shall deal
with and control city administrative officers and employees under the
jurisdiction of the manager solely through the manager, and neither the council
nor any council member shall give orders to any subordinate of the manager
either publicly or privately.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
CH. 3: COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 3.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The council shall meet regularly at least once each month at such times and
places as the council may designate by rule. The mayor or any two members of
the council may call special meetings of the council upon at least twenty-four
hours notice to each member and such reasonable public notice as may be
prescribed by council rule in compliance with the laws of Minnesota. To the
extent provided by law, all meetings of the council and its committees shall be
public and any citizen shall have access to the minutes and records of the
council at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.02 SECRETARY OF COUNCIL.
   The city clerk shall act as secretary of the council. The city clerk shall
keep a journal of council proceedings and perform such other duties as this
charter or the council may require. The council may designate any other city
official, employee or the city manager to act as secretary of the council with
the exception being a member of the council.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE AND QUORUM.
   The council shall determine its own rules and order of business. A majority
of all members shall constitute a quorum but a smaller number may adjourn from
time to time. The council may by rule provide a means by which a minority may
compel the attendance of absent members.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.04 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all legislation shall be by
ordinance. The votes of council members on any action taken shall be recorded
in accordance with statute. Except as otherwise provided in this charter, an
affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of the council shall be
required for the adoption of all ordinances and resolutions.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.05 PROCEDURE ON ORDINANCES.
   Every proposed ordinance shall be presented in writing and shall be in
accordance with state laws governing statutory cities. No ordinance shall
contain more than one subject, which shall be clearly expressed in its title.
The enacting clause shall be, “The City of Madison ordains.” An ordinance may
be adopted at the meeting at which it is introduced and upon publication shall
be duly enacted and passed.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.06 EMERGENCY ORDINANCES.
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare in which
the emergency is defined and declared in a preamble and the ordinance is
adopted by a vote of at least three members of the council.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.065 ZONING ORDINANCES.
   A zoning ordinance and amendments shall be adopted by a majority vote of all
council members, except that any change in part or the entirety of existing
classification from residential to commercial or industrial shall require a
two-thirds majority vote of council members.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.07 PROCEDURE ON RESOLUTIONS.
   Every resolution shall be presented in writing and shall be in accordance
with laws governing statutory cities.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.08 SIGNING AND PUBLICATION OR ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every ordinance or resolution passed by the council shall be signed by the
mayor, attested by the city clerk, and filed and preserved by the city clerk.
Every ordinance shall be published at least once in the official newspaper. To
the extent and in the manner provided by law an ordinance may incorporate by
reference a statute, state administrative rule or regulation of Minnesota, a
code, or ordinance or part thereof without publishing the material referred to
in full.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.09 WHEN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS TAKE EFFECT.
   Every resolution and ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
passage and publication or at such later date as it specifies. Every ordinance
and resolution adopted by the voters of the city shall take effect immediately
upon its adoption or at such later date as it specifies.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.10 AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Every ordinance or resolution repealing all or part of a previous ordinance
or resolution shall give the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or
resolution to be repealed in whole or part and shall be in accordance with M.S.
§ 412.191, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
§ 3.11 REVISION AND MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The city may revise, rearrange, and modify its ordinances with such
additions and deletions as may be deemed necessary. The ordinance code may be
published in book, pamphlet, or continuously revised loose-leaf form and copies
shall be made available by the council at the office of the city clerk for
general distribution to the public free or for a reasonable charge. Publication
in such a code shall be a sufficient publication of any ordinance provision not
previously published if a notice that copies of the modifications are available
at the office of the city clerk is published in the official newspaper for at
least two successive weeks.
(Ord. 318, passed 9-22-2003)
CH. 4: NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
§ 4.01 THE REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION.
   A regular municipal election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November of each even-numbered year commencing in 2004 at such
place or places as the city council may designate by ordinance. The city clerk
shall give at least two weeks published notice of the time and place of holding
such election and of the officers to be elected, but failure to give such
notice shall not invalidate the election.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 4.02 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The council may by resolution order a special election and provide all means
for holding it. The clerk shall give at least two weeks published notice of a
special election. The procedure at such election shall conform as nearly as
possible to that prescribed for other city elections.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 4.03 FILING FOR OFFICE.
   Any voter of the city qualified under the state constitution for elective
office may, by filing an affidavit, paying a filing fee or deliver a signed
petition to the city clerk, have his/her name placed on the municipal election
ballot pursuant to Minnesota statute.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 4.04 PROCEDURE AT ELECTIONS.
   Subject to this charter and applicable state laws, the council may by
ordinance further regulate the conduct of municipal elections. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter and supplementary ordinances, general state
laws on elections shall apply to municipal elections.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
CH. 5: INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
§ 5.01 GENERAL VOTER AUTHORITY.
   The voters of the city shall have the right, in accordance with this
charter, to propose ordinances and to require ordinances to be submitted to a
vote by processes known respectively as the initiative and referendum.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 5.02 PETITIONS.
   An initiative or referendum shall be initiated by a petition signed by
registered voters of the city equal in number to 20 percent of those who voted
for mayor in the last preceding city election. A committee of five voters whose
names and addresses shall appear on the petition shall sponsor each petition. A
petition may consist of one or more papers, but each paper circulated
separately shall contain at its head or attached to it the statement required
by §§ 5.05 or 5.06, hereof as the case may be. Each signer shall sign his/her
name and give his/her street address. Each separate page of the petition shall
have appended to it a certificate, verified by oath, that each signature is the
genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. The person making
the certificate shall be a resident of the city. Any person whose name appears
on a petition may withdraw his/her name by a statement in writing filed with
the city clerk before the clerk advises the council of the sufficiency of the
petition.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 5.03 DETERMINATION OF SUFFICIENCY.
   Immediately upon receipt of the petition, the city clerk shall examine the
petition as to its sufficiency and report to the council within 20 days. Upon
receiving the report, the council shall determine by resolution the sufficiency
of the petition.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 5.04 DISPOSITION OF INSUFFICIENT PETITION.
   If the council determines that the petition is insufficient or irregular,
the city clerk shall deliver a copy of the petition, together with a written
statement of its defects, to the sponsoring committee. The committee shall have
30 days in which to file additional signature papers and to correct the
petition in all other particulars. If at the end of that period the council
finds that the petition is still insufficient or irregular; the city clerk
shall file the petition in his/her office and notify the sponsoring committee.
The final finding that the petition is insufficient or irregular shall not
prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose nor shall it
prevent the council from referring the ordinance to the voters at the next
regular or special election at its option.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 5.05 INITIATIVE.
   Any ordinance, except an ordinance relating to the budget or capital
program, the appropriation of money, the levy of taxes, or the salaries of city
officers or employees, may be proposed by a petition which shall state at the
head of each page or attached thereto the exact text of the proposed ordinance.
If the council passes the proposed ordinance with amendments and a majority of
the sponsoring committee do not disapprove the amended form by a statement
filed with the city clerk within 10 days of its passage by the council, the
ordinance need not be submitted to the voters. If the council fails to enact
the ordinance in an acceptable form within 60 days after the final
determination of sufficiency of the petition, the ordinance shall be placed on
the ballot at the next election occurring in the city. If no election is to
occur within 120 days after the filing of the petition, the council shall call
a special election on the ordinance to be held within such period. If a
majority of those voting on the ordinance vote in its favor, it shall become
effective 30 days after adoption unless the ordinance specifies a later
effective date.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
§ 5.06 REFERENDUM.
   Any ordinance subject to the initiative may be subjected to referendum by a
petition, which shall state, at the head of each page or on an attached paper,
a description of the ordinance. Any ordinance, upon which a petition is filed,
other than an emergency ordinance, shall be suspended in its operation as soon
as the petition is found sufficient. If the ordinance is not thereafter
entirely repealed, it shall be placed on the ballot at the next election or at
a special election called for that purpose, as the council determines. If a
majority of the voters voting thereon favors the ordinance, it shall go into
effect immediately or on the date specified in the ordinance; if a majority of
the electors voting thereon votes against the ordinance, it shall be considered
repealed upon certification of the election results. If a petition is filed
against an emergency ordinance, the ordinance shall remain in effect but shall
be repealed if a majority of the voters voting on the ordinance vote against
it.
(Ord. 319, passed 11-10-2003)
CH. 6: ADMINISTRATION OF CITY AFFAIRS
§ 6.01 THE CITY MANAGER.
   The city manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of
training, experience, and administrative qualifications and need not be a
resident of the city at the time of appointment. The city manager shall be
appointed for an indefinite period and may be removed by the council at any
time, but after having served as manager for one year the city manager may
demand written charges and a public hearing on the charges before the council
prior to the date when final removal takes effect. A demand for written charges
and a hearing must be made within seven days of notification of the council’s
intent to remove the city manager. The council shall set a date and a
reasonable time for a public hearing, which must be held within 30 days of the
demand and may not be reconvened or recessed until a further date, absent
approval of the council. The council shall notify the city manager within five
days of the hearing of the council’s decision to retain or remove the city
manager. The decision of the council is final. Pending such hearing and
removal, the council may suspend the manager from office, with or without pay,
at the council’s discretion. The council may designate some properly qualified
person to perform the duties of the manager during the absence or disability.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 6.02 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   Subd. 1. Generally. The city manager shall have the powers and duties set
forth in the following subdivisions.
   Subd. 2. Enforcement. The city manager shall see that statutes relating to
the city and the laws, ordinances, and resolutions of the city are enforced.
   Subd. 3. Appointment of personnel. The city manager shall appoint upon the
basis of merit and fitness and subject to any applicable civil service
provisions and, except as herein provided, remove the clerk, all heads of
departments, and all subordinate officers and employees. The appointment and
removal of the attorney shall be subject to the approval of the council.
   Subd. 4. Control. The city manager shall exercise control over all
departments and divisions of the agencies of the city, except as otherwise
provided by law or charter.
   Subd. 5. Council meeting. The city manager shall attend all meetings of the
council with the right to take part in the discussions but not to vote; but the
council may in its discretion exclude the city manager from any meeting at
which the manager’s removal is considered.
   Subd 6. Recommend ordinances and resolutions. The city manager shall
recommend to the council for adoption such measures as the city manager may
deem necessary for the welfare of the people and the efficient administration
of the affairs of the city.
   Subd. 7. Advise; annual budget. The city manager shall keep the council
fully advised as to the financial condition and needs of the city, and the city
manager shall prepare and submit to the council the annual budget.
   Subd. 8. Administrative code. The city manager shall, when directed to do so
by the council, prepare and submit to the council for adoption an
administrative code incorporating the details of administrative procedure, and
from time to time the city manager shall suggest amendments to such code.
   Subd. 9. Additional duties. The city manager shall perform such other duties
as may be prescribed by charter, statues, resolutions, or as may be adopted by
the council. However, the city manager may not act as treasurer.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 6.03 ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION.
   The council may by ordinance establish city departments, offices, and
agencies and prescribe their functions. No power or duty conferred by this
charter upon a particular office or agency shall be transferred to any other.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 6.04 SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.
   There shall be a city clerk, city treasurer, and such other officer’s
subordinate to the city manager as the council may establish by ordinance. The
city clerk shall be subject to the direction of the city manager and shall have
such duties in connection with the keeping of the public records, the custody
and disbursement of the public funds, and the general administration of the
city’s affairs as the council may prescribe. The city clerk may be designated
to act as secretary of the council. The council may by ordinance abolish
offices that have been created by ordinance and it may combine the duties of
various offices as it may see fit.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 6.05 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   The city manager shall be the chief purchasing agent of the city. All city
purchases and contracts shall be made or let by the city manager within limits
that are set by ordinance. All other purchases shall be made and all other
contracts let by the council after the recommendation of the city manager has
first been obtained. Contracts shall be made in compliance with the uniform
contracting law, and whenever competitive bids are required, the contract shall
be let to the lowest responsible bidder. All contracts, bonds, and instruments
of any kind to which the city is a party shall be signed by the mayor and the
city manager or city clerk, if a separate office, on behalf of the city and
shall be executed in the name of the city. The council may by ordinance adopt
further regulations for the making of bids and the letting of contracts.
(Ord. 323, passed 11-24-2003)
CH. 7: TAXATION AND FINANCES
§ 7.01 COUNCIL TO CONTROL FINANCES.
   The council shall have full authority over the financial affairs of the
city. It shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets, the
auditing and settlement of accounts, and the safekeeping and disbursement of
public monies.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall be the calendar year.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.03 SYSTEM OF TAXATION.
   Subject to the state constitution, and except as forbidden by it or by state
law, the council shall have full power to provide by ordinance for a system of
local taxation. This authority includes the power by ordinance to assess, levy,
and collect taxes on all subjects or objects of taxation except as limited or
prohibited by the state constitution, by this charter or by laws imposing
restrictions upon the city irrespective of charter provisions.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.04 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET.
   Annually the city manager shall submit to the council his/her recommended
budget in accordance with a budget calendar to be established by ordinance or,
in the absence of ordinance, by September 1.
   The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for all city funds and
activities for the ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by law or
charter, shall be in such form as the city manager deems desirable or the
council may require. It shall include a summary and show in detail all
estimated income and all proposed expenditures, including debt service and
comparative figures for the current fiscal year, actual and estimated, and the
preceding fiscal year. In addition to showing proposed expenditures for current
operations, it shall show proposed capital expenditures to be made during the
year and the proposed method of financing such capital expenditure. For each
utility operated by the city, the budget shall show anticipated net surplus or
deficit and the proposed method of its disposition; and subsidiary budgets for
each such utility giving income and expenditure information shall be included
or attached as appendices. The total proposed operating budget to be provided
from the property tax should not exceed the amounts authorized by law and this
charter. Consistent with these provisions, the budget shall contain such
information and be in the form prescribed by ordinance and by law.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.05 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The city manager shall prepare and submit to the council a recommended five-
year capital improvement program no later than June 1 each year or as
prescribed by the city council. The capital improvement program shall include a
list of all capital improvements proposed to be undertaken during the next five
fiscal years, with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity for
such improvements; cost estimates, method of financing and recommended time
schedules for each such improvement; and the estimated annual cost of operating
and maintaining the facilities to be constructed or acquired. This information
shall be revised and extended each year for capital improvements still pending
or in process.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.06 COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   The budget shall be considered at the first regular monthly meeting of the
council in September and at subsequent meetings until a budget is adopted for
the ensuing year. The meetings shall be so conducted as to give interested
citizens a reasonable opportunity to be heard. The council may revise the
proposed budget but no amendment to the budget shall increase the authorized
expenditures to an amount greater than the estimated income.
   The council shall adopt the budget in accordance with Minnesota law by a
resolution, which shall set forth the total for each budgeted fund and each
department with such segregation as to objects and purposes of expenditures as
the council deems necessary for purposes of budget control. The council shall
also adopt a resolution levying the amount of taxes provided in the budget and
the clerk shall certify the tax resolution to the county auditor in accordance
with Minnesota law. Adoption of the budget resolution shall constitute
appropriations at the beginning of the fiscal year of the sums fixed in the
resolution for the several purposes named in the budget resolution and no
other.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.07 ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUDGET.
   The city manager shall enforce strictly the provisions of the budget. He/she
shall not authorize any payment or the incurring of any obligation by the city
unless an appropriation has been made in the budget resolution and there is a
sufficient unexpended balance left after deducting the total past expenditures
and encumbrances against the appropriation. No officer or employee of the city
shall place any order or make any purchase except for a purpose and to the
amount authorized in the budget resolution. Any obligation incurred by any
person in the employ of the city for any purpose not authorized in the budget
resolution or for any amount in excess of the amount authorized shall be a
personal obligation upon the person incurring the obligation. No check shall be
issued or transfer made to any account other than one owned by the city until
the claim to which is relates has been supported by an itemized bill, payroll,
or time-sheet or other document approved and signed by the responsible city
officer who vouches for its correctness and reasonableness.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.08 ALTERATIONS IN THE BUDGET.
   After the budget resolution has been adopted, the council shall not increase
the amounts fixed in the resolution beyond the estimated receipts except to the
extent that actual receipts exceed the estimate. At any time the council may,
by resolution approved by a majority of its members, reduce the sums
appropriated for any purpose by the budget resolution or authorize the transfer
of sums from unencumbered balances or appropriations in the budget resolution
to other purposes.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.09 FUNDS.
   There shall be maintained in the city treasury a general fund and such other
funds as may be required by statute, ordinance, or resolution. The council may,
by ordinance or resolution, make inter-fund loans, except from trust and agency
funds, as it may deem necessary and appropriate.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.10 CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
   Except as provided in §§ 7.11 or 7.12, no obligations shall be issued to pay
current expenses, but the council may issue and sell obligations for any other
municipal purpose in accordance with law and within the limitations prescribed
by law. Except in the case of obligations for which an election is not required
by this charter or by law, no such obligations shall be issued and sold without
the approval of the majority of the voters voting on the question at a general
or special election.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.11 ANTICIPATION CERTIFICATES.
   The council may issue certificates on indebtedness in anticipation of state
and federal aids and the collection of taxes levied the previous year for any
funds and not yet collected. The total amount of certificates issued against
any fund for any year together with interest thereon until maturity shall not
exceed the total of state and federal aides and current taxes due to the fund
and uncollected at the time of issuance. Such certificates shall be issued on
such terms and conditions as the council may determine, but they shall become
due not later than one year following their issuance. The proceeds of the tax
levied and such state or federal aids as the governing body may have allocated
for the fund against which tax anticipation certificates are issued and the
full faith and credit of the city shall be irrevocably pledged for the
redemption of the certificates.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.12 EMERGENCY DEBT CERTIFICATES.
   If in any year the receipts from taxes or other sources should from some
unforeseen cause become insufficient for the ordinary expenses of the city, or
if any calamity or other public emergency necessitates the making of
extraordinary expenditures, the council may by ordinance issue on such terms
and in such manner as the council determines emergency debt certificates to run
not to exceed three years. A tax sufficient to pay principal and interest on
such certificates with the margin required by law shall be levied as required
by law. The ordinance authorizing an issue of such emergency debt certificate
shall state the nature of the emergency and be approved by a majority of the
members of the council. It may be passed as an emergency ordinance.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 7.13 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The city council shall serve as the Board of Equalization for the purpose of
equalizing assessments of property for taxation purposes according to Minnesota
law.
(Ord. 329, passed 7-26-2004)
CH. 8: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 8.01 POWER TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND LEVY ASSESSMENTS.
   The city shall have the authority to make any type of public improvement not
forbidden by law and levy special assessments to pay all or any part of the
cost of such improvements as are of a local character pursuant to the laws of
the State of Minnesota. The total assessments for any local improvement may not
exceed the cost of the improvement, including all costs and expenses connected
therewith, with interest. No assessment shall exceed the benefits to the
property.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 8.02 ASSESSMENTS FOR SERVICES.
   The council may provide by ordinance that the cost of city services to
streets, sidewalks, or other public or private property may be assessed against
property benefitted and collected in the same manner as special assessments
pursuant to the laws of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 8.03 LOCAL IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   When the city undertakes any local improvement to which the state local
improvement code applies, it shall comply with the provisions of that law. The
council may by ordinance prescribe the procedure to be followed in making any
other local improvement and levying assessments therefore pursuant to the laws
of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
CH. 9: EMINENT DOMAIN
§ 9.01 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   The city may acquire, by purchase, gift, condemnation, or otherwise, any
property, either within or without its boundaries, that may be needed by the
city for any public purpose. In acquiring property by exercising the power of
eminent domain, the city shall proceed according to Minnesota Statutes, or
other applicable law.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
CH. 10: FRANCHISES
§ 10.01 FRANCHISES REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, firm or corporation shall
place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in, over, upon, or
under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public utility
or for any other purpose without a franchise therefore from the city. A
franchise shall be granted only by ordinance, which shall not be an emergency
ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall contain all the terms and
conditions of the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs of publication of
the franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit with the clerk to
guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 10.02 TERM.
   No exclusive or perpetual franchise shall ever be granted. No franchise for
a term exceeding fifteen (15) years shall be effective until approved by a
majority of the electors voting thereon.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 10.03 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before any franchise ordinance is adopted for any rates, fares, or prices to
be charged by a public utility are fixed by the council, the council shall hold
a public hearing on the matter. Notice of such hearing shall be published at
least once in the official newspaper not less than ten days prior to the date
of the hearing.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 10.04 POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED.
   Pursuant to the state and federal rules and regulations the city council may
by ordinance reasonably regulate and control the exercise of any franchise,
including the maximum rates, fares, or prices to be charged by the grantee. No
franchise value shall be included in the valuation of the grantee’s property in
regulating utility rates, fares, or prices under any applicable law, ordinance,
or regulation or in proceedings for municipal acquisition of the grantee’s
property by purchase or eminent domain.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
§ 10.05 RENEWALS OR EXTENSIONS.
   Every renewal or modification of a franchise, including an existing
franchise, shall be subject to the same limitations and shall be granted in the
same manner as a new franchise.
(Ord. 330, passed 7-26-2004)
CH. 11: PUBLIC OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES
§ 11.01 ACQUISITION AND OPERATION UTILITIES.
   The city may own and operate any water, gas, light, power, heat, telephone,
transportation or other public utility for supplying its own needs for utility
service or for supplying utility service to private consumers or other
governmental agencies. It may construct all facilities reasonably needed for
that purpose and may acquire any existing utility properties so needed. The
city shall not acquire or construct any public utility unless the proposition
to acquire or to construct it has been incorporated in an ordinance and adopted
by the council or electorate. Such ordinance shall not be an emergency
ordinance.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 11.02 REGULATIONS AND RATES.
   The council may by ordinance fix rates, fares, and prices for any municipal
utility, prescribe the time and manner of payment for any such service, make
such other regulations as may be necessary, and prescribe penalties for
violation of such regulations in accordance with Minnesota State law.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 11.03 LEASE OF PLANT.
   The council may by ordinance contract with any responsible person, firm, or
corporation for the operation of any municipal utility for a term not to exceed
ten years. Such ordinance shall not be an emergency ordinance.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 11.04 SALE OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   No public utility owned by the city shall be sold or otherwise disposed of
by the city unless the full terms of the proposition of sale or other
disposition are embodied in an ordinance approved by a majority of the voters
voting thereon at a general or special election. Any sale, lease or abandonment
of a water works or light plant shall be subject, in addition, to the
requirement of state law.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
CH. 12: GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 12.01 OFFICIAL PUBLICATION.
   The council shall annually at its first meeting of the year designate a
legal newspaper of general circulation in the city as its official newspaper in
which shall be published ordinances and other matters required by law to be so
published as well as such other matters as the council may deem it in the
public interest to have published in this manner.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.02 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every elected or appointed officer of the city shall, before entering upon
the duties of his/her office, take and subscribe an oath of office in
substantially the following form: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to support
the constitution of the United States and of this state and to discharge
faithfully the duties devolving upon me as ... (title of office) of the City of
Madison to be best of my judgment and ability.”
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.03 OFFICIAL BONDS.
   The city manger, city clerk, the city treasurer, and such other officers or
employees of the city as may be specified by ordinance shall each, before
entering upon the duties of his/her respective office or employment, give a
corporate surety bond to the city as security for the faithful performance of
his/her official duties and the safekeeping of the public funds. Such bonds
shall be in such form and amount as the council determines and may be either
individual or blanket bonds in the discretion of the council. They shall be
approved by the city council and filed with the city clerk. The provision of
state laws relating to official bonds not inconsistent with this charter shall
be complied with. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.04 OFFICIAL INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   Except as otherwise permitted by law, no officer of the city who is
authorized to take part in any manner in any contract with the city shall
voluntarily have a personal financial interest in or personally benefit from
such contract.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.05 SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No real property of the city shall be disposed of except by ordinance. The
net cash proceeds of any sale of the property shall be used to retire any
outstanding indebtedness incurred by the city in the acquisition or improvement
of the property. Any remaining net proceeds shall be used to finance other
improvements in the capital improvement budget or to retire any other bonded
indebtedness unless by a four-fifths vote, designating some other public use
for the proceeds.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.06 VACATION OF STREETS.
   The council may by ordinance approved by a majority of the council to vacate
any street or alley or other public grounds thereof within the city pursuant to
state law.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.07 CITY TO SUCCEED TO RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF FORMER CITY CHARTER.
   The city shall succeed to all the property, rights, and privileges, and
shall be subject to all legal obligations of the city under the former charter.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.08 EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
   All ordinances and regulations of the city in force when this charter takes
effect and not inconsistent with this charter are continued in full force and
effect until amended or repealed.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.09 PENDING CONDEMNATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Any condemnation, improvement, or assessment proceeding in progress when
this charter takes effect shall be continued and completed under the laws under
which such proceeding were begun. All assessments made by the city prior to the
time when this charter takes effect shall be collected as if this charter had
not been adopted.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.10 ORDINANCE TO MAKE CHARTER EFFECTIVE.
   The council shall by ordinance, resolution or other appropriate action take
such steps as may be necessary to take effective the provisions of this
charter.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.11 PRESENT OFFICERS CONTINUED.
   The present officers of the city shall continue in their respective offices
and functions and shall continue to govern the city under the laws and charter
previously in effect until the officers proved by this charter have been
elected and qualify. They shall make such financial and other provisions for
the fiscal year 2004 as will serve to carry on the government until the
government has been set up under this charter, and they shall make provision
for the election of the first council as provided in Chapter 4 of this charter.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 12.12 STATUTES NOT AFFECTED BY CHARTER.
   All general laws and statutes of the State of Minnesota applicable to cities
of the same class as the City of Madison operating under home rule charters and
not inconsistent with the revisions of this charter shall apply to the City of
Madison and shall be consistent as supplementary to the provisions of this
charter.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-9-2004)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY WARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “Madison Code,” “code of ordinances,”
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and
section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Madison, including the area within the corporate
boundaries of the city as presently established or as amended by ordinance,
annexation or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in
this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Madison, Minnesota.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Madison.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Lac qui Parle County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
CHAPTER 11: CITY WARDS
Section
   
11.01   Ward boundary and voting place
§ 11.01 WARD BOUNDARY AND VOTING PLACE.
   The city shall constitute one ward and shall consist of all area within the
city bounded by its city limits as constituted by its city boundaries. All
primary, general and special elections held in the city shall be held at city
hall.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-25-2003)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
34.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   City Clerk
   
30.02   City Treasurer
   
30.03   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
   
30.04   City Manager
   
30.05   Personnel policy
City Council Procedures
   
30.20   Meetings
   
30.21   Presiding officer
   
30.22   Minutes
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Quorum and voting
   
30.25   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.26   Committees
   
30.27   Suspension or amendment of rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CITY CLERK.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 412.591, as it may be amended from time to time, the City
Charter, and the ordinance set forth in this section, the city is authorized to
establish the office of City Clerk, whose powers and duties shall be as
authorized by state law.
(Ord. 321, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 30.02 CITY TREASURER.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 412.141, as it may be amended from time to time, the City
Charter and the ordinance set forth in this section, the city is authorized to
establish the office of City Treasurer, whose powers and duties shall be as
authorized by state law.
(Ord. 322, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended from time to time, and
City Charter § 2.07, adopted September 22, 2003, the Council is establishing
salaries. The Mayor’s salary shall be $350 per month, and the Council members
salaries shall be $250 per month.
   (B)   There shall be no other compensation. The Mayor and Council members
shall be eligible for other reimbursements such as mileage and meals
commensurate with the most current Council policies on record.
(Ord. 325, passed 1-1-2005; Ord. 380, passed 10-9-2017)
§ 30.04 CITY MANAGER.
    Pursuant to City Charter, Chapter 6, as it may be amended from time to
time, the city shall establish the office of City Manager, whose powers and
duties shall be as established in the Charter and this code chapter.
§ 30.05 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   An employee personnel policy shall be established upon the recommendation of
the City Manager and subsequent adoption by City Council. The policy shall
establish the terms and conditions of employment for city employees, and both
the city and the employees shall be bound thereby. All of the terms of the
employee personnel policy shall be posted or distributed to each individual
city employee, and all amendments thereto shall be similarly posted or
distributed upon adoption. The City Manager is authorized to issue
administrative directives not inconsistent with this policy. Administrative
policies shall become a part of the personnel policy upon being filed with the
office of the City Clerk (Business Office) and posted or distributed to each
employee.
CITY COUNCIL PROCEDURES
§ 30.20 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held at
least once each calendar month, established by motion or resolution by the
Council. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the
following business day at the same time and place. The City Clerk shall
maintain a schedule of regular meetings. This schedule shall be available for
public inspection during regular business hours at the City Clerk’s office. All
meetings, including special and emergency meetings, shall be held in Madison
Municipal Building Auditorium (City Hall).
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any 2 members of the Council may call a
special meeting of the Council upon at least 3 days written notice to each
member of the Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each
member, or left at the member’s usual place of residence with some responsible
person. Similar written notice shall be mailed at least 3 days before the
meeting date to those who have requested notice of the special meetings. This
request must be in writing and filed with the City Clerk, designating an
official address where notice may be mailed. The request will be valid for 1
year running on a calendar year basis.
   (C)   Emergency meeting. The Mayor or any 2 Council members may call an
emergency meeting when circumstances require the immediate consideration of the
Council. Notice may be in writing personally delivered to Council members by
the Chief of Police or another police officer, or notice may be in the form of
personal communication by the Mayor, Manager or Clerk. Notice must include the
date, time, place and purpose of such a meeting. Where practical, the Clerk
shall make an effort to contact news gathering organizations that have filed a
request to receive notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting of January of
each year, the Council shall do the following:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose an Acting Mayor from the Council members who shall perform
the Mayor’s duties during the Mayor’s absence, disability from the city or, in
case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been appointed
and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint necessary officers, employees and members of boards,
commissions and committees; and
      (5)   Establish the time of the regular meetings by motion or resolution.
   (E)   Public meetings. Except as otherwise provided in the open meeting law,
all Council meetings, including special, emergency and adjourned meetings and
meetings of all Council committees shall be open to the public unless otherwise
provided in Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.21 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The presiding officer shall be the Mayor. In the absence
of the Mayor, the Acting mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the City
Manager or City Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until
the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their numbers to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, as amended, from time to time as a guide.
   (C)   Appeals. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the
presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely
on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or her
ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions, vote, or speak on any question except that on demand of any
Council member the presiding officer shall pass the chair to another Council
member to preside temporarily.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.22 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City
Clerk or in the Clerk’s absence, the Deputy City Clerk. In the absence of both,
the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary pro tem. Ordinances,
resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes if they
appear in other permanent records of the City Clerk and can be accurately
identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approvals. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
or computerized format, shall be signed by the Mayor with the City Clerk
attesting to the Mayor’s signature, and copies shall be delivered to each
Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At the next regular
meeting following the deliver, approval of the minutes need not be read aloud,
but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there
is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, the Council shall vote
approval as presented. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon
the addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the
minutes shall stand approved as voted.
   (C)   Publication. The City Clerk shall publish a condensed version of the
official minutes or arrange for mail and internet version(s) of the official
minutes within 30 days of a regular or special meeting which includes a summary
of the action on motions, resolutions, ordinances and other official
proceedings.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.23 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed. Council business shall be conducted in the following
order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Approve agenda;
      (3)   Approve minutes;
      (4)   Public petitions, hearings, and communications;
      (5)   Consent agenda;
      (6)   Unfinished and new business;
      (7)   Auditing claims;
      (8)   Mayor/Council/Manager reports;
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of the hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. The City Clerk or Manager, as the person(s) responsible, shall
prepare an agenda of business for each regular, special and emergency Council
meeting(s) and file a copy in the office of the Clerk. Regular meeting shall
have a copy filed not later than 96 hours before the meeting. The agenda shall
be prepared in accordance with the order of business and copies shall be
delivered by the Chief of Police or another police officer to each Council
member, city departments, newspaper and interested persons as far in advance of
the meeting as time for preparation will permit (normally 4 days). No item of
business shall be considered unless it appears on the agenda for the meeting or
is approved for addition to the agenda by a majority vote of the Council
members present.
   (D)   Consent agenda. Agenda items shall contain routine, non-controversial
items that need little or no deliberation. The City Clerk or Manager, as the
person(s) responsible for placing items on the agenda, prepares the consent
agenda. By a majority vote or higher vote, the Council may approve all actions
on the consent agenda with one vote. In the event a Council member/Mayor
objects to an item being on the consent agenda, it should be removed and acted
upon as a separate agenda item. Any Council member or the Mayor may request of
the presiding officer removal of any consent agenda item for separate
consideration.
   (E)   Agenda materials. The City Clerk or Manager shall see that at least
one copy of printed materials relating to agenda items is available to the
public in the meeting room while the Council considers their subject matter.
The agenda item shall not be considered unless this provision is complied with.
This section does not apply to materials that are classified as other than
public under the Minnesota Data Practices Act or materials from closed
meetings.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.24 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a majority of the elected Council
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The Council may punish non-
attendance by a fine not exceeding $50 for each absence from any meeting unless
a reasonable excuse is offered.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner, which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to that member’s name, shall be
recorded as an abstention.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute or City Charter. Except as otherwise provide by statute, a majority
vote of a quorum shall prevail in all other cases.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.25 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in full unless a member of
the Council requests such a hearing. (Note, an ordinance should be used for
regulatory legislation, including any which includes provisions for a penalty
of fine or imprisonment; the City Council may take most administrative actions
by motion or resolution.)
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, with the Mayor’s signature
attested to by the City Clerk, and filed by the City Clerk in the ordinance or
resolution book. Proof of publication (affidavit of publication) of every
ordinance shall be attached and filed in the City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth the title and may include in full each amended section of subdivision
as it will read with the amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, communications. Every motion shall be stated in
full before the presiding officer submits it to a vote and shall be recorded in
the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council
shall be in writing unless the Council waives such a requirement and allows
another form of communication. Each petition or other communication shall be
recorded in the minutes and kept on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (E)   Attorney review. The City Clerk, Manager and City Council will request
an attorney review for actions of the Council with specific attention to
ordinances and resolutions with a focus on compliance with statutes, Charter
and legal enforceability.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.26 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The city committees shall be appointed by the
Council at the first regular Council meeting in January of each year and as
established in ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee/task force that the presiding officer
appoints for an oral/written report and recommendation before it is considered
by the Council as a whole. A majority of the members of the committee shall
sign the report and file it with the City Clerk at least 72 hours prior to the
Council meeting at which it is to be submitted if a written report is required.
Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee shall act promptly and
faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
§ 30.27 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended or amended by only an affirmative vote of at
least three of the Council members present and voting.
(Ord. 328, passed 6-23-2004)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
31.01   Authorization
   
31.02   City departments, boards and committees
§ 31.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 412.111, as it may be amended from time to time,
the City Charter and the ordinance set forth in this chapter, the City Council
is authorized to establish city departments as may be required to carry out the
business of the city.
   (B)   The Council may create departments and advisory boards and appoint
board members and agents for the city as deemed necessary for the proper
management and operation of city affairs in conformance with the “Council/
Manager” plan form of government. The Council may prescribe the duties and fix
the compensation of all officers, both appointive and elective, employees and
agents, when not otherwise prescribed by law. The Council may require any
officer or employee to furnish a bond conditioned for the faithful exercise of
duties and the proper application of, payment upon demand of, all monies
officially received. Unless otherwise prescribed by law, the amount of bonds
shall be fixed by the Council. The Council may provide for the payment from
city funds of the premium on official bond of any officer or employee of the
city.
(Ord. 320, passed 11-24-2003)
§ 31.02 CITY DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.
   The City Council establishes the following city departments and boards.
   (A)   Departments.
      (1)   Legislative/City Council.
      (2)   Executive/City Manager.
      (3)   City Clerk/Business Office.
      (4)   Financial/City Treasurer & Independent Auditor.
      (5)   Legal/City Attorney.
      (6)   Public Safety (Police/Fire/Building Inspection/Ambulance/EMS).
      (7)   Public Works/Utilities (Streets & Lighting, Buildings,
Environmental/Weed Control, Water, Sewer, Sanitation, Electric, Storm
Drainage).
      (8)   City Engineer.
      (9)   Culture & Recreation (prairie arts, grand theater, library, parks/
athletic fields, swimming pool, bowling alleys, senior citizens recreation).
      (10)   Municipal Liquor.
      (11)   Urban & Economic Development/Community Development/Housing &
Redevelopment.
      (12)   Miscellaneous (Cemeteries, Community Education and Cable
Television).
   (B)   Boards.
      (1)   Madison Charter Commission.
      (2)   Madison Cable Television Commission.
      (3)   Madison Economic Development Authority.
      (4)   Madison Housing & Redevelopment Authority.
      (5)   Madison Public Library Board.
      (6)   Park & Recreation Board.
      (7)   Planning & Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Committees. As established from time to time based on the city’s needs
upon the recommendation of the Mayor or 2 Council members and conditioned upon
formal action of the City Council. The role of the committees shall be defined
by the City Council.
   (D)   Departmental employee authorizations. The City Council shall determine
by resolution the authorized city positions and the number of employees to be
used. The City Manager shall be responsible (as established by City Charter)
within the Council authorizations for appointment of the positions.
   (E)   Joint powers boards/commissions and committees. The City Council shall
appoint representatives from time to serve on joint governmental entities and
have the power to vote as may be conveyed by the joint entities.
(Ord. 320, passed 11-24-2003)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions;
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite term
and may be removed by him or her at any time. The Director shall serve with a
salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk's Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city
hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area
as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Budget calendar
   
33.02   Reimbursements and advances for expenses
   
33.03   Investment of idle funds
   
33.04   Payment of local government bills and establishing the process for
payment of local government bills
   
33.05   Establishing rural and urban service districts
Purchasing Policy
   
33.20   Purpose
   
33.21   Purchasing agents
   
33.22   Purchasing procedures
   
33.23   Purchasing guidelines
   
33.24   City employee purchasing
   
33.25   Award recommendations
   
33.26   Purchasing limits
   
33.27   Purchasing limits for local improvements
   
33.28   Reserved
   
33.29   Reserved
   
33.30   Emergency purchasing
Lodging Tax
   33.50   Establishing and regulating lodging tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 BUDGET CALENDAR.
   (A)   Authorization. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes and City Charter § 7.04,
Submission of Budget. The City Council requires the city budget calendar as the
required time line to meet its needs and those of the outside agencies.
   (B)   Budget calendar. The following represents the dates to be used as the
official budget calendar:
      (1)   June 1 - 10. The City Manager has the responsibility for preparing
the budget, distributes budget calendars, worksheets and notifies departments
to begin preparing the next year’s budgets;
      (2)   June 10 - 15. Department head/supervisors prepare their budgets and
the City Manager confers with them;
      (3)   July 5. Department heads/supervisors submit department budgets to
the City Manager;
      (4)   July 5 - 15. The City Manager assembles department budgets into the
preliminary city budget;
      (5)   July 15. The City Manager submits the preliminary budget to the
City Council. The city must give public notice that the Council will hold a
budget hearing for discussion of all items in the budget;
      (6)   July 16 - August 15. The City Council considers the preliminary
budget, confers with department head/supervisors, discusses proposed taxes and
estimated revenues and makes preliminary budget decisions;
      (7)   August 1. The city receives information from the state on its levy
limits and the amount of local government monies in the form of aid receipts
for the next year. Cities will also receive information on any credits they can
expect to receive. Cities have a certain number of days from the time they
receive notice of their certified amount to file objections with the
appropriate state agency as to the accuracy of the amounts to be paid. Dates
and types of aids and credits change from time to time and will be determined
by Minnesota law;
      (8)   August 16 - September 14. The City Council must adopt the proposed
budget and certify the proposed tax levy. Results of the hearing are furnished
to the County Auditor with proposed levy amounts to be used in preparation of
“truth in taxation” statements to be mailed at a later date;
      (9)   November 10. The County Auditor sends out to each parcel property
owner the “truth in taxation” statements disclosing the results of the budget
process and the proposed property taxes resulting therein;
      (10)   November 29 - December 29. The City council holds public hearings
on the final budget proposals. The Council adopts the budget and resolutions
levying taxes to cover the final budget;
      (11)   After budget adoption. The city posts the adopted budget in the
principal municipal building and the city publishes a summary budget statement
in an authorized legal newspaper (M.S. § 471.6965);
      (12)   December 28. Deadline for certifying final property tax levy to
the County Auditor (5 working days after December 20). The city shall furnish
the County Auditor with a certified copy of the City Council resolution levying
taxes. The city should submit the appropriate form(s) to the state, if so
required (M.S. § 275.065);
      (13)   January 1. Implementation of calendar year budget.
   (C)   Budget checklist for Council. After the City Manager has prepared the
preliminary budget, the Council must assume full responsibility for reviewing
and approving it in its final form. In this review, the Council should consider
several questions:
      (1)   Does the budget meet the needs of the community? Are there some
services which the city should reduce or eliminate or provide funds for new
programs or for the expansion of existing programs?
      (2)   Does it provide proper balance between activities, especially
between more essential and less essential services?
      (3)   Will the work programs assure adequate standards of service?
      (4)   Is the proposed budget a sound and honest one? Are revenue
estimates realistic? Does it include all expenditures and conceivable
contingencies? Does it contain a contingency appropriation for emergencies?
      (5)   Is the budget economical, providing the greatest value per dollar?
      (6)   Is the budget consistent with the ability and willingness of the
citizens to support it?
      (7)   Does the budget discharge a city’s responsibility for the future?
Is it consistent with the city plan and with other long-term policies for the
development of the community and a 5 year capital improvement program?
      (8)   The Council should consider these questions after tentatively
agreeing on the budget as a whole.
(Ord. 306, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 33.02 REIMBURSEMENTS AND ADVANCES FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   Authorization. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes and this section, the
elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are entitled to
reimbursements and advances for expenses related to the specific business of
the city and will be reimbursed or advanced the appropriate dollar amount in
accordance with this section and the resolutions passed specifying the amounts
allowed to be paid therein.
   (B)   Mileage. When required to use their own vehicles for attending
meetings, conferences, seminars, judicial proceedings or in the course of
normal city work they shall be reimbursed at a rate designated in a resolution
of the City Council.
   (C)   Meals. When working or on city business and at the express (verbal/
written by department head/Manager/Council) authorization of the city, they
shall receive up to a maximum daily reimbursement or specified meal allowance
as designated in a resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Hotel and lodging. When on city business and at the express (verbal/
written by department head/Manager/Council) authorization of the city, they
shall be reimbursed for the actual cost of hotel/lodging based upon single
occupancy room charges or as designated in a resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Air travel, train, car rental and other transportation. When on city
business and at the express (verbal/written by department head/Manager/Council)
authorization of the city, they shall be reimbursed for coach/economy fares for
airlines and other forms of transportation will be reimbursed and computed in a
manner in the city’s best interests and the most reasonable method of
transportation for cost shall be used.
   (F)   Telephone calls. Telephone calls made specifically for city business
when city telephones are not available will be reimbursed based on actual
charges incurred. City telephone credit cards will be used when practical and
will only be used when the city telephone lines are not available. Personal
telephone calls will not be reimbursed.
   (G)   Laundry and dry cleaning. Laundry and dry cleaning costs will only be
reimbursed at the express authorization of the city, and if such a
reimbursement is permitted, it will be as designated in a resolution of the
City Council.
   (H)   Parking and toll charges. Parking and toll charges will be reimbursed
for city business based on actual charges at the express authorization of the
city.
   (I)   Other special expenses. Expenses not elsewhere authorized in this
section that are incurred on or for city business at the express authorization
of the city shall be reimbursed based on the actual charges and/or as
designated in a resolution of the City Council.
   (J)   Advances. Upon the expressed (verbal/written by department head/
Manager/Council) approval of the city for the conduct of its business: elected
and appointed officials and employees of the city may request an advance based
on a completed advance estimate of the anticipated total expenses to be
incurred in the course of conducting city business. An advance cannot exceed
the anticipated expense being incurred. Payment of advances according to normal
city policy on payments.
   (K)   Reimbursements. All claims for expense reimbursement shall be
submitted to the City Clerk’s office with the appropriate paid receipts for a
particular item or if the claimant is not able to obtain a receipt must submit
a statement certifying that the claim for that item is accurate. In the case of
an advance, any amounts not advanced will be reimbursed according to this
section and any other payments for an advance will be returned within 10
calendar days upon returning to the city with a claim submitted verifying the
proper use of city funds. All other claims for reimbursement will be submitted
within 35 days of returning to the city and will be paid as required by normal
city policy for claims payment.
   (L)   Definitions and authorizations. Express authorization of the city
means requiring the department head/supervisor/Manager and/or City Council
approval by formal approval prior to incurring the expense for items in the
current authorized budget and in concurrence with the City Manager. For
expenses not authorized in the budget, the City Manager must approve and may
require City council approval depending on the circumstances. Advances are
dollar amounts issued prior to incurring the expense and are to be used to
defray the costs related to the purpose of the advance and at no time are to be
used for any other purpose. Reimbursement is the process of receiving payment
for expenses incurred in the course of doing city business and are permitted
under this section and Minnesota Statutes as items that can be repaid for
justified city expenses. No provision of this section or resolutions designated
by the City Council related to the topic of this section will superceded
provisions of State of Minnesota-Bureau of Mediation Services approved
bargaining unit agreements that contain provisions related to the topic of this
section that are different. Approved bargaining unit agreements that specify
reimbursement policies will be followed and this section will apply in the
absence of reimbursement provisions.
   (M)   Penalty. Violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.03 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   (A)   Authorization. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes and this section, the
city is authorized to invest any funds not presently needed for its
obligations. In accordance the city may invest its idle funds in certain
specified obligations and it may make interest-bearing deposits of such funds
in state or national banks and savings and loan associations.
   (B)   Permissible investments.
      (1)   Permissible investments and interest-bearing deposits are set forth
in this section.
         (a)   Direct U.S. government obligations:
            1.   Treasury bills;
            2.   Certificates of indebtedness;
            3.   Treasury notes;
            4.   Treasury bonds;
         (b)   Federal agency issues (not directly guaranteed by U.S.
government):
            1.   Federal home loan banks;
            2.   Federal national mortgage association;
            3.   Federal land banks;
            4.   Federal intermediate credit banks;
            5.   Banks for cooperatives;
         (c)   Shares in mutual funds investing exclusively in U.S. government
and agency issues;
         (d)   Obligations of the state or municipalities;
         (e)   Banker’s acceptances of United States banks eligible for
purchase by the Federal Reserve System;
         (f)   Highest quality commercial paper issued by United States
corporations or their Canadian subsidiaries when the paper matures in 270 days
or less;
         (g)   Interest-bearing deposits.
      (2)   Time deposits shall be withdrawable and certificates of deposit and
investments shall mature and bear interest payable at times and in amounts
which, in the judgment of the city, will provide cash at the times and in the
amounts required for the purposes of paying the city obligations. There is one
exception, however: the city may authorize the purchase of longer term
investments subject to an agreement to repurchase such investments at times and
prices sufficient to yield the amounts estimated to be so required. Repurchase
agreement may be made with a bank qualified as a depository or with any
national bank or state bank in the United States which is a member of the
Federal Reserve System and whose combined capital and surplus equals or exceeds
$10,000,000 or with a reporting dealer to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
The city is also authorized to enter into a reverse repurchase agreement with
any institution with which it is authorized to make a repurchase agreement. A
reverse repurchase agreement obligates the city to repurchase at a fixed future
date and price a security sold by it to a financial institution.
      (3)   Any investments may be sold by the City Council at any time, but if
the investment is made from a debt service fund or another fund dedicated to a
particular purpose, the money received from the sale must remain a part of the
fund until used for the purpose for which the fund was created.
   (C)   Criteria for making wise investments. The following shall be the
criteria used in making investments for the city with no exceptions.
      (1)   Safety. Includes the federal insurance available up to the
specified maximum with excess bank deposits to be protected by the furnishing
of the required collateral (110% of the excess deposit). In no case will home
mortgages be permitted as collateral even though allowed in law. Direct
obligations of the United States (Treasury certificates, notes, bonds, and
bills) are guaranteed by the United States. Safety of governmental agency
issues must be weighed in terms of experience, types of loans which agencies
make, and what organizations Congress and the states permit to invest in agency
issues.
      (2)   Spacing of maturities. This principle must be stated, “When the
money is needed, it must be available.” In short, the interest to be earned,
the length of the investment and the estimated cash flow needs shall be weighed
so as to obtain the maximum investment return with the funds available as
required.
      (3)   Liquidity. A proper investment must be sufficiently liquid so that
the city is able to obtain cash if an emergency arises.
      (4)   Yield. The investment or deposit providing maximum earnings shall
be made since the object of investing idle funds is to put the taxpayer’s money
to a use that will yield the greatest return consistent with safety and the
city’s later need for money.
   (D)   Cash flow analysis.  
      (1)   Making the cash forecast. A cash forecast is the city’s tool for
determining expected expenditures and revenues over a projected period of time
which may be a fiscal calendar year or several fiscal calendar years.
      (2)   Determining the amount to be kept in the checking account. This is
the amount required to cover any obligations of the city that may be
outstanding plus any money that may be expended based on the cash flow
projections between investments periods and in relation to the city determined
fiscal periods plus any banking or financial institution service charges that
may be incurred for the maintenance of the city’s accounts.
      (3)   Accountability. Investments should be shown at cost, adjusted for
any premium or discount. An accounting schedule of investments for each year
will show for each investment the date purchased and sold, the price paid with
reference to 100 as par, the total cost to the city, the amount realized on the
sale, with premium, if any, and the interest received by the city.
   (E)   Investment depository/investment officer designations.  
      (1)   Investment depository designation. The City Council at the annual
meeting will designate the official depository(ies) as prescribed in accordance
with Minnesota law and may add or delete depositories from time to time as
required for the proper conduct of city business with these actions being
officially recorded.
      (2)   Investment officer designation. By City Charter and this section,
the City Treasurer is designated as the primary investment officer. In the
absence of the City Treasurer (absence being defined as he or she is
unavailable) the following alternatives are designated to act as the investment
officer:
         (a)   The City Clerk;
         (b)   Mayor; or
         (c)   The Deputy City Clerk-Treasurer
   (F)   Penalty. Violations of the provisions of this section shall fall under
Minnesota state law in accordance with the magnitude of the violation.
(Ord. 307, passed 3-11-2002)
§ 33.04 PAYMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILLS AND ESTABLISHING PROCESS FOR PAYMENT
OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT BILLS.
   (A)   Authorization. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes and the City Charter,
the City Council requires the city payment of local government bills according
to this section and federal/state laws and rules that may apply.
   (B)   Claims.
      (1)   Itemization; declaration. The Council, commissions, boards,
committees or officers authorized by law or resolution of the City Council to
audit and allow claims shall not audit or allow the claim until the person
claiming payment, or the person’s agent, reduces it to writing, in items and
signs a declaration to the effect that such account, claim, or demand is just
and correct and that no part of it has been paid. The City council,
commissions, boards, committees, officers or others as established by
resolution of the City Council may in its discretion allow a claim prepared by
the clerk or secretary of the board or officer prior to such declaration by the
claimant if the declaration is made on the check or order- check by which the
claim is paid, as provided in other sections of this section or law.
      (2)   Application. The provisions of this section do not apply to any
claim or demand for an annual salary or fees fixed by law, nor to the salary or
wages of any employee whose salary or wages have been fixed on an hourly,
daily, weekly or monthly basis, by the City Council, commissions, boards or
committees and which is now authorized by law to be paid on a payroll basis.
      (3)   Electronic funds transfer. Electronic funds transfer is the process
of value exchange via mechanical means without the use of checks, drafts or
similar negotiable instruments. A city may make an electronic funds transfer
for a claim for a payment from a bank account or investment of excess money and
for payment of bond principal, bond interest and a fiscal agent service charge
from the debt redemption fund, payroll or other related financial transaction
accounts. This authorization includes the following policy controls:
         (a)   The City Council shall delegate the authority to make electronic
funds transfers to the City Clerk and/or Treasurer and the Deputy City Clerk-
Treasurer;
         (b)   A list of all transactions made by electronic funds transfer
shall be submitted to the City Council, commissions, board or committee upon
request at its next regular meeting after the transaction.
      (4)   Claims processing time lines. The City Council is authorizing the
payment of claims by two methods. Method one is “pre-approved” where certain
claims against the city may be paid. Examples of claims would be: utility
bills, obligations of the city where discounts are available for prompt early
payment and where contract(s) exist specifying the parameters for payment (or
in resolution of the Council if different from the parameters contained
herein). Method two is “regular” where claims are paid at the Council
designated regular meetings and unless a claim qualifies for method one, must
be paid by method two. The City Clerk and/or Deputy City Clerk and Deputy City
Clerk-Treasurer are authorized to process claims unless otherwise authorized by
resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Declaration form.
      (1)   The declaration provided for is sufficient if in the following
form: “I declare under the penalties of law that this account, claim or demand
is just and correct and that no part of it has been paid.”
      (2)   The check or order-check by which the claim is paid may have
printed on its reverse side, above the space for endorsement thereof by payee,
the following statement: “The undersigned payee, in endorsing this check (or
order-check) declares that the same is received in payment of a just and
correct claim against the city and that no part of it has heretofore been
paid.” When endorsed by the payee named in the check or order-check, the
statement shall operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the required
declaration of the claim.
   (D)   Auditing claims. When any account, claim or demand against the city
shall have been verified in the manner prescribed in this chapter, the Council,
commission, board, committee, officer or other as established by resolution of
the Council to whom it shall be presented may receive and consider it and allow
or disallow the same, in whole or in part, as shall appear just or lawful,
saving to the claimant the right of appeal.
   (E)   Duplicate warrants or orders. 
      (1)   Issuance. When any order or warrant of the city shall become lost
or destroyed, a duplicate thereof may be issued by the officers authorized by
law to issue the orders or warrants.
      (2)   Record to be kept. Any officer issuing duplicates under this
section shall keep a record showing the number, dates and amount of such
mutilated, lost or destroyed orders or warrants, together with the date of
issuance of the duplicates therefore, and the names of the persons to whom
issued. It may be preferred to issue a new order, order-check or warrant with a
new number, date and the amount allowing for the action of a “stop payment” to
be issued by the financial institution upon the outstanding order, order-check
or warrant at the direction of the authorized officers representing the City
Council, commissions, boards or committees.
   (F)   Prompt payment of local government bills.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CONTRACT. Any written legal document or documents signed by both
parties in which the terms and conditions of any interest or other penalty for
late payments are clearly stated.
         DATE OF RECEIPTS. The completed delivery of the goods or services or
the satisfactory installation, assembly or specified portion thereof, or the
receipt of the invoice for the delivery of the goods or services, whichever is
later.
         GOVERNING BOARD. The elected or appointed board of the municipality
and includes, but is not limited to, the City Council, commissions, boards and
committees.
         MUNICIPALITY. The home rule charter the city created under Minnesota
Statutes.
      (2)   Payment required. The municipality must pay for each vendor
obligation according to the terms of the contract or, if no contract terms
apply, within the standard payment period unless the municipality in good faith
disputes the obligation. Standard payment period is defined as within 35 days
of the date receipt. Further, the city shall take advantage of discounts that
may be offered from vendors and will pay such bills within the discount period
if practical. Also, the city will pay such bills that require penalties if the
bill is not paid within the required period of time. In accordance with §
33.02, payments may be made more frequently than within the 35 day rule. It is
the policy of the City Council and all of its commissions, boards and committee
to pay bills at the regular meetings established normally on a monthly basis.
It shall also be the specified policy of the City Council, commissions and
boards to authorize interim payments as provided for in this section with the
appropriate officers signing the related orders, order-checks or warrants and
that the interim payments will be provided to the Council, commissions and
boards at their next regular meeting for review in accordance with division (D)
of this section and to take the appropriate official actions as required
therein.
      (3)   Invoice errors. If an invoice is incorrect, defective or otherwise
improper, the city must notify the vendor within 10 days of the date of
receipt. Upon receiving a corrected invoice from the vendor, the city must pay
the obligation within the standard payment period as defined in this section.
      (4)   Payment of interest on late payments required. Except as otherwise
provided in this section, the city shall calculate and pay interest to a vendor
if the city has not paid the obligation according to the terms of the contract
or, if no contract terms apply, within the standard payment period as defined
in this section. The standard payment period for a negotiated contract or
agreement between a vendor and the city, which requires an audit by the city
before acceptance and payment of the vendor’s invoice shall not be begun until
completion of the audit by the municipality.
         (a)   The rate of interest calculated and paid by the municipality on
the outstanding balance of the obligation not paid according to the terms of
the contract or during the standard payment period shall not exceed 1.5% per
month or part of a month and only if required by the vendor.
         (b)   No interest penalties may accrue against the city for delaying
payment of a vendor obligation due to a good faith dispute with the vendor
regarding the fitness of the product or service, contract compliance, or any
defect, error or omission related thereto. If such delay undertaken by the
municipality is not in good faith, the vendor may recover costs and attorney’s
fees.
         (c)   The minimum monthly interest penalty payment that a municipality
shall calculate and pay a vendor for the unpaid balance for any one overdue
bill of $100 or more is $10. For unpaid balances of less than $100, the
municipality shall calculate and pay the actual interest penalty due the
vendor.
      (5)   Applicability. This section applies to all goods, leases and rents
and contracts for services, construction, repair and remodeling. Purchases from
or contracts for service with a public utility or a telephone company under the
jurisdiction of the public utilities commission with an approved practice
regarding late fees are not subject to this section.
   (G)   Penalty. Violations of the provisions of this section shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Any person who willfully and falsely makes the declaration provided
for in this section is guilty of a felony as provided for in Minnesota
Statutes;
      (2)   Every member of the council, commissions, boards and committees who
shall audit and allow any claim required to be itemized, without the same
having been first duly itemized and verified and shall be guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 301, passed 2-11-2002)
§ 33.05 ESTABLISHING RURAL AND URBAN SERVICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   M.S. § 272.67 authorizes the city to divide areas of the city, by
ordinance, into a Rural Service District and an Urban Service District, each
constituting separate taxing districts for the purpose of all municipal taxes,
except those levied for the payment of bonds and judgements and interest
thereon.
   (B)   The Rural Service District shall include only such unplatted lands
which need not to be contiguous to one another, are rural in character, and are
not developed for commercial, industrial or urban residential purposes and for
these reasons are not benefitted to the same degree as other lands by municipal
services financed by general taxation in the judgement of the City Council.
   (C)   Land in the Rural Service Taxing District must be open, rural in
character and maintained in farm crops or seeded.
   (D)   No tracts of land under 10 acres shall be included in the Rural
Service Taxing District.
   (E)   No city service beyond that normally provided by the townships of the
County of Lac qui Parle will be provided by the city to the Rural Service
Taxing District.
   (F)   The Urban Service District shall include all lands within the
boundaries of the city, which are not included in the Rural Service District.
   (G)   The Rural Service Taxing District shall include the following real
estate parcels, identified by tax identification number, in the City of
Madison, County of Lac qui Parle, State of Minnesota:
      (1)   54-0566-000   (Wicks)
      (2)   54-0640-000   (Miller)
      (3)   54-0665-000   (Bormann)
   (H)   The benefit ratio between tax-supported municipal service to parcels
of land of like, full and true value situated in the Rural Service Taxing
District and in the Urban Service Taxing District, respectively, shall be 30:
100.
   (I)   Whenever any unplatted parcel or lot or portion of an unplatted parcel
of land included in the Rural Service District is hereafter developed for
commercial, industrial, or residential purposes, or basic urban services, such
as water, sewer, or street improvements are extended to such lots, portion of
an unplatted parcel, or whenever application is made for a permit for
construction of a commercial, industrial or residential building or
improvement; or whenever such improvement or building is commenced without a
permit; or the lot, portion of an unplatted parcel extended to such lots,
portion of an unplatted parcel, or whenever application is made for a permit
for construction of a commercial, industrial or residential building or
improvement; or whenever such improvement or building is commenced without a
permit; or the lot, portion of an unplatted parcel otherwise fails to meet the
criteria for inclusion in the Rural Service District, the City Council shall
make and enter an order by resolution transferring the entire unplatted parcel
or the entirety of the lots affected from the Rural Service District to the
Urban Service District and not just a portion of the unplatted parcel unless a
deed which physically divides such unplatted parcel had been filed for record
in the office of the Lac qui Parle County Recorder or an unplatted parcel is
platted. The City Council shall review annually that tax ratio applicable to
all parcels classified within the Rural Service District and ascertain whether
or not such parcels still qualify for inclusion within the Rural Service
District.
(Ord. 383, passed 2-26-2018)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 33.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the regulations for
purchasing for the city.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.21 PURCHASING AGENTS.
   The City Manager shall serve as the “chief purchasing agent” of the city and
is responsible for oversight of the city-wide purchasing function. Department
head/supervisors shall serve as “purchasing agents” of the city with
responsibility for their specific functional areas.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.22 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   All purchases and contracts in an amount over $1,000 shall, where practical,
be based on specifications with a copy being placed on file with the City Clerk
and open to inspection by the public. Other purchases and contracts shall be in
accordance with M.S. § 471.345, as it may be amended from time to time. Bids
shall be received by the City Clerk or City Manager to be opened at the time
and place designated in the notice or by default at City Hall. At a minimum,
the City Clerk or City Manager shall be present at all bid openings.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.23 PURCHASING GUIDELINES.
   At least 2 competitive prices shall be solicited where practical. When
feasible, quotations or bids shall be based on plans and specifications.
Competition shall be upon common merchandise, conditions or services so as to
foster the competition. Purchase orders may be used for purchases where
practical and would contain an authorized signature by the Chief Purchasing
Agent or departmental purchasing agent depending on city requirements.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.24 CITY EMPLOYEE PURCHASING.
   No city employee is empowered to order, sign or give receipts for materials
(defined as: receipt by the authorized person ordering - not someone receiving
the goods on behalf of the person ordering) except where there is an authorized
purchase order, approval verbal/written by the departmental purchasing agent
and/or the Chief Purchasing Agent. Failure to follow this section may subject
the employee (City Council action required) to becoming personally liable for
any and all costs incurred therein.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.25 AWARD RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Chief Purchasing Agent shall coordinate the purchasing process and
recommend as appropriate the purchase or contract most advantageous for the
city. Award shall be to the lowest responsible bidder or quote. This section
does not directly apply to professional service contracts. It is the City
Council who reserves the right to accept or reject any or all of the quotes or
bids and may waive informalities therein.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.26 PURCHASING LIMITS.
   The City Manager shall have the authority to authorize and/or approve
purchases of goods/services up to $2,000, based on allocations contained in the
city-wide budgets except for local improvement projects and contracts.
Department heads/supervisors shall have the authority to authorize and/or
approve purchases of goods/services up to $500 based on allocations contained
in department specific functional areas of responsibility except for local
improvement projects and contracts. Purchases in this section shall be
ratified/confirmed by the City Council at their next regular meeting and
entered in the city’s official records (note: ratification on goods or services
procured under this section will be through “auditing” on the bill’s list at
the regular Council meeting). The Madison Public Library through its Library
Director (appointed by the Pioneer Regional Library System) has the authority
to authorize and/or approve the purchases of goods/services up to $1,500 based
on allocations contained in department specific functional areas of
responsibility (except for local improvement projects and contracts) where
approval of the Chief Purchasing Agent for items over $500 and less than $1,500
has been secured. Purchases by the Madison Public Works/Utilities through its
Public Works/Utilities Superintendent has the authority to authorize ad/or
approve the purchases of goods/services up to $5,000 based on allocations
contained in department specific functional areas of responsibility (except for
local improvement projects and contracts) where approval of the Chief
Purchasing Agent for items over $500 and less than $5,000 has been secured.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 33.27 PURCHASING LIMITS FOR LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   All purchases or contracts in the category of local improvements shall be
made in accordance with the requirements of M.S. § 471.345, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 384, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 33.28 [RESERVED.]
§ 33.29 [RESERVED.]
§ 33.30 EMERGENCY PURCHASING.
   Purchases or contracts in this category require methods which exceed the
departmental purchasing agent and/or Chief Purchasing Agent’s purchasing policy
ordinance established purchasing limits and is beyond a regular or special
Council meeting. In the event an emergency purchase is required due to
circumstances beyond the city’s control (example: national defense, severe
weather, and electrical system failures), the Chief Purchasing Agent, Public
Works/Utilities Superintendent, Mayor and/or 2 Council members may approve such
a purchase up to maximum dollar limit of $10,000. Further, the council will
ratify and confirm such an action at their next regular, special or emergency
meeting.
(Ord. 302, passed 3-25-2002)
LODGING TAX
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHING AND REGULATING LODGING TAX.
   (A)   Collections. Every operator of a facility on which a lodging tax of 3%
in accordance with M.S. § 469.190 is due shall collect the tax at the time the
consideration for such lodging is paid. The tax collection shall be deemed to
be held in trust by every such operator for the city. The amount of tax shall
be separately stated from the consideration charged for the lodging and those
persons paying the tax shall receive a receipt of payment from the operator.
   (B)   Payment. Every person who collects a lodging tax shall pay the tax
collected to the city monthly on or before the twentieth day of the month
following the month in which the tax is collected.
      (1)   At the time of payment, such person shall submit a return upon such
forms and containing such information as the City Clerk may require. At a
minimum, the return shall contain:
         (a)   The total amount of consideration collected for lodging during
the period covered by the return;
         (b)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the
period;
         (c)   The signature of the person filing the return;
         (d)   The period covered by the return; and
         (e)   The amount of uncollectible consideration charged subject to the
lodging tax.
      (2)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to
any reporting period, the amount imposed by this section and previously paid,
and which become uncollectible during such reporting period, but only in
proportion to the portion of such consideration that became uncollectible.
   (C)   Processing returns. The City Clerk shall, after a return is filed,
examine the same and make any investigation or examination of the records and
accounts of the person making the return deemed necessary for determining its
correctness. The tax computed on the basis of such examination shall be the tax
due. If the tax due is found to be greater than paid, such excess shall be paid
to the city within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof given either
personally or sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If
the tax paid is greater than the tax found to be due, the excess shall be given
credit toward the next period return after determination of such refund.
   (D)   Failure to file a return. The City Clerk shall notify any operator of
a facility subject to the provision of this section who fails to file a return
or who files an incorrect, false, or fraudulent return of such fact. Such
operator shall file such return or corrected return within five days of the
receipt of such written notice and pay tax due thereon. If such persons shall
fail to file such return or corrected return, the City Clerk shall make a
return or corrected return for such person from such knowledge and information
as the City Clerk can obtain, and assess a tax on the basis thereof, which tax
shall be paid within five days of the receipt of written notice and demand for
such payment. Any such return or assessment made by the City Clerk shall be
prima facie correct and valid, and such person shall have the burden of
establishing its incorrectness or invalidity in any such action or proceeding
in respect thereto.
   (E)   Penalties. The following penalties shall apply in the given
situations:
      (1)   Failure to file a return or pay a tax imposed by this section to
the city within 30 days of the due date: a penalty of 10% of the unpaid tax.
      (2)   Failure to file a return or pay a tax imposed by this section to
the city by more than 30 days but less than 60 days of the due date: a penalty
of 15% of the unpaid tax.
      (3)   Failure to file a return or pay a tax imposed by this section to
the city by more than 60 days but less than 90 days of the due date: a penalty
of 20% of the unpaid tax.
      (4)   Failure to file a return or pay a tax imposed by this section to
the city by more than 90 days of the due date: a penalty of 25% of the unpaid
tax.
      (5)   Failure to file a return or pay a tax imposed by this section to
the city wherein the City Clerk is required to make a return or corrected
return for such a person: a penalty of $10 for each unfilled return.
      (6)   If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty
of $10 shall be assessed. The penalty shall be collected in the same manner as
the tax.
   (F)   Interest. The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any
penalty, shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the time such tax
should have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall be added to
the tax and be collected as a part thereof.
   (G)   Application of payments. All payments shall be credited first to
penalties, next to interest and then to the tax due.
   (H)   Enforcement. If any portion of the tax imposed by this section
including penalties thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to
be paid, the City Attorney or City Clerk may institute such legal action as may
be necessary to recover the amount due plus interest, penalties, the costs and
disbursement of any action.
   (I)   Administration of tax. The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the
assessment and collection of the taxes imposed by this section. The City Clerk
shall prepare blank forms for the returns and other documents required by this
section and shall make then available to members of the public.
   (J)   Examination of records. The City Clerk may examine the books, papers
and records of any operator of a facility subject to tax imposed by this
section in order to verify the accuracy of any return made, or if no return was
made, to ascertain the tax as provided in this section. Every such operator is
directed and required to give the City Clerk the means, facilities, and
opportunity for such examinations and investigation as are hereby authorized.
   (K)   Use of proceeds. The proceeds obtained from the collection of taxes
pursuant to this section shall be used in accordance with M.S. § 469.190, as
the same may be amended from time to time to fund a local convention or tourism
bureau for the purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a tourist or
convention center. The city may enter into an agreement with the Chamber of
Commerce or other organization for such purposes.
   (L)   Appeals. Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination
made by the City Clerk under this section may file with the City Clerk a
petition for review of such notice, order or determination by the City Council.
The petitions shall contain the name of the petitioner, the petitioner’s
address, the location of the lodging, the order, notice or determination
subject to the review and the basis for the request for review. Upon receipt of
the petition, the City Clerk will place the matter on the City Council agenda
for a hearing as soon as practical. The City Clerk shall give the petitioner at
least five days prior written notice of the date, time and place of such
hearing. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause as to why the notice, order or determination should be modified or
withdrawn. The City Council shall make written findings of fact and conclusions
based upon this section and the evidence presented. The City Council may
modify, reverse or affirm the notice, order or determination that is subject to
review. All requests for review must be made within one year of the date of the
notice, order or determination.
(Ord. 381, passed 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 34: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
34.01   Fee schedule
§ 34.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council deems it necessary for the city to establish and collect
fees for certain city services and that the City Council shall, from time to
time, adopt by resolution an itemized schedule setting forth the specific
services and the corresponding fees for said services.
(Ord. 332, passed 11-8-2004; Am. Ord. 347, passed 12-18-2006)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
53.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
54.   STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
      
55.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fixing rates and charges for city utilities
   
50.03   Contractual contents
   
50.04   Applications for service
   
50.05   Billing
   
50.06   Utility rate schedule
   
50.07   Delinquent accounts
   
50.08   Cold weather rule
   
50.09   Hot weather rule
   
50.10   Certification for collection with taxes
   
50.11   Payment of balance
   
50.12   Hearing
   
50.13   Options
   
50.14   Certified roll
   
50.15   Recalculation of charges
   
50.16   Right of entry
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
costs of those utility services.
   CITY UTILITY. Public utility services owned or operated by the city or
agency thereof, including sewer, storm sewer, electricity, sanitation and water
service.
   COMMERCIAL. A nonresidential user of city utilities.
   CONSUMER AND CUSTOMER. Any user of a city utility.
   MULTIPLE UNITS. A building which is occupied by more than 1 person living
independently.
   RESIDENTIAL. A building which is used primarily as a residence of 1 or more
persons living together.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
resolution of the city.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR CITY UTILITIES.
   All commercial and residential rates and charges for city utilities,
including, but not by way of limitation, rates for service, connection fees,
disconnection fees and reconnection fees shall be fixed, determined and amended
by the Council and adopted by resolution. The resolution, containing the
effective date thereof, shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the
office of the City Clerk and shall be uniformly enforced.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this chapter relating to city utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of city utility
services, and every such consumer shall be deemed to assent to the same. All
contracts between franchises and consumers of utility services other than the
city shall be in strict accord with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.04 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for city utilities services shall be made to
the City Clerk's office on forms prescribed by the Council and furnished by the
city. Applicants shall present photo identification upon application, unless a
member of the City Clerk's office can vouch for the applicant's identity. The
applicant may submit application and identification in person, by mail, fax or
electronic means. The applicant shall agree to conform to this chapter and to
rules and regulations that may be established by the city as conditions for the
use of city utility services.
   (B)   Owner’s liability. The owners shall be liable for city utility
services supplied to the property, whether he or she is occupying the property
or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
   (C)   Service charges. All accounts shall be liable for a service charge
regardless of use. In the event a building has multiple units, each unit served
shall be liable for a separate service charge for each utility, if applicable.
   (D)   Security deposit. All customers, who are not the fee owners of the
property to be served, shall be required to provide a security deposit in an
amount to be determined and amended by the Council and adopted by resolution. A
customer, who within the last 36 months has not had service disconnected for
nonpayment of a bill and has not been liable for disconnect for nonpayment of a
bill which is not in dispute, in any property served herein, shall be deemed to
have established good credit. A customer who has established good credit is not
required to provide security deposits and may request in writing the return of
any security deposits after 12 consecutive months of prompt payment or upon
prior termination of service with all bills paid. Deposits shall bear interest
at the Minnesota statutory rate, as amended. At the time the deposit is made,
the city shall furnish the customer with a written receipt. Advance payments or
prepayments shall not be construed as being a deposit.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 311A, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 50.05 BILLING.
   City utility charges shall be billed on one bill as applicable to each
account. All charges for city utilities shall be due upon receipt and
considered delinquent after the fifteenth day of the month. In the event that
the fifteenth day of the month occurs during a weekend or on a holiday observed
by the city, payments shall be due on the next business day. Bills shall be
mailed to the customers on or before the first day of each month and specify
the water and electricity consumed and the sewer and other utility services
charges in accordance with the current fee schedule set by the City Council.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.06 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   The City Council resolution setting out the utility rate schedule shall also
establish the manner and number of certification cycles per year. At least one
certification cycle will be timed each year to coincide with Lac qui Parle
County’s requirements for certification to the following year’s taxes.
Additional certification cycles may be set in the rate schedule resolution. All
city utility accounts, unless exempt for other legal reasons, which have been
billed a delinquent bill and remain unpaid as of the certification cut- off
date shall have the balance on the account included in a preliminary
certification list.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.07 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Late charges. Beginning on the subsequent day of the month that the
account becomes delinquent, a late charge penalty of 1.5% plus an
administrative processing fee in an amount set by Council resolution shall be
assessed.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. City utility service shall not be shut-off
until notice and an opportunity for hearing before the City Council have been
provided to the occupant and owner of the premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
notice will be mailed by first class mail to the occupant and shall state that
if payment is not made by the date specified in the notice, but not less than
10 days of the mailing of the notice, the city utility service to the premises
will be shut-off for nonpayment.
      (2)   The notice shall also state that the occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the City Council prior to utility service being shut
off. The owner or occupant may be represented in person or by counsel or any
other person of his or her choosing. The owner or occupant must request a
hearing in writing to the City Clerk’s office.
      (3)   If the past due amount is not paid within 72 hours of proposed
disconnect, a subsequent notice will be sent to the owner of the premises
indicating that utility service at their property will be disconnected if
payment is not received.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the city utilities
shall not be shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to appear at the hearing,
service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice.
      (6)   Before service will be restored, the account must be paid in full
along with disconnect and reconnect fees. A security deposit may also be
required.
      (7)   Shut-off procedures will be adjusted as needed to comply with state
statutes as they relate to cold weather rules.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.08 COLD WEATHER RULE.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 216B.097, as it may be amended from time to time, no
service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if the disconnection
affects the primary heat source when the disconnection would occur during the
period between October 15 and April 15, the customer has declared inability to
pay on forms provided by the city, the household income of the customer is less
than 185% of the federal poverty level as documented by the customer to the
city, and the customer's account is current for the billing period immediately
prior to October 15 or the customer has entered into a payment schedule and is
current with payments under the schedule. The City Clerk shall, between August
15 and October 15 of each year, notify all residential customers of these
provisions.
§ 50.09 HOT WEATHER RULE.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 216B.0975, as it may be amended from time to time, no
service of a residential customer shall be disconnected if the disconnection
affects the primary cooling source when Lac qui Parle County is included in an
excessive heat watch, heat advisory, or excessive heat warning issued by the
National Weather Service.
§ 50.10 CERTIFICATION FOR COLLECTION WITH TAXES.
   Unpaid charges on city utility accounts shall not be certified to the County
Auditor until a notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been provided to
the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by first class
mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date for
certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. The notice shall
also state that the owner or occupant may, before the certification date,
request a hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid utility
charges.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.11 PAYMENT OF BALANCE.
   The owner or occupant of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date the notice of the certification
hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of certification is mailed,
payments will still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.12 HEARING.
   Upon receipt of a written request, a hearing shall be held on the matter by
the City Council. Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the
opportunity to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as
taxes are collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the
amounts claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no
legal reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with
taxes in accordance with this chapter, the city shall certify the unpaid
charges to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.13 OPTIONS.
   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
   (A)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll within 10
days of the hearing date;
   (B)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline;
   (C)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Lac qui Parle County
on their property tax statement with a collection term of 1 year.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.14 CERTIFIED ROLL.
   Fifteen days after the hearing, the certified roll, minus any payments,
shall be delivered to Lac qui Parle County.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
§ 50.15 RECALCULATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   If a property owner or person responsible for paying any charges
incurred herein questions the correctness of any such charges, that person may
have the determination of the charge recomputed within three months of the bill
by submitting a written request to the City Clerk for recomputation.
   (B)    In addition, a property owner or person responsible for paying sewer
charges may submit a written request to the city clerk for a recomputation of
charges due to a significant deviation in water usage. After consideration of
the facts and circumstances of the request, the city clerk in consultation with
the city manager may reduce the sanitary sewer charges for one billing cycle to
that person’s average over the preceding 12 month period provided that source
of the deviation has been rectified and did not result in excess use of the
sanitary sewer. The City Clerk may request proof that the problem has been
rectified (i.e.- receipt, invoice, etc.) In the event that a significant
deviation in water usage occurred, the problem has been fixed, and the customer
is not eligible for a reduction in sanitary sewer charges, the City Clerk in
consultation with the City Manager may establish a reasonable payment plan with
the person. Late charges shall still apply. For purposes of this section, a
“significant deviation” is defined as an increase in charges equal to or
greater than a 150% increase from that person’s average over the preceding 12
month period.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 350, passed 3-12-2007 ; Am. Ord. 359,
passed 11-24-2008)
§ 50.16 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city has the right to enter upon private property upon which is
installed a municipal utility, or connection therewith, at all times reasonable
under the circumstances, for the purpose of reading utility meters, for the
purpose of inspection and repair of meters or a utility system, or any part
thereof, and for the purpose of connecting and disconnecting service.
(Ord. 311, passed 6-28-2004)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Sanitation collection service required
   
51.03   Container required; placement
   
51.04   Meddling with trash receptacles prohibited
   
51.05   Containers to be kept sanitary and secure
   
51.06   Unauthorized private collections prohibited
   
51.07   Sanitation service: city options.
   
51.08   Prohibited acts
   
51.09   Non-residential customers; container types; collection schedules
   
51.10   Manner of collection and transportation
   
51.11   Contracting for collection
   
51.12   Collection of leaves, trees or tree limbs
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   REFUSE. Garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. All inorganic refuse matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes
and the like.
§ 51.02 SANITATION COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every premises within the city limits with a city water and/or electric
meter, or any place where garbage or rubbish accumulates, shall subscribe to
the city’s sanitation collection service. Properties outside of city limits
with city electric service, but no city water service are not required to
subscribe to the sanitation service. Properties outside of city limits with
city electric and water service shall subscribe to the sanitation service.
Garbage shall be collected, or otherwise lawfully disposed of, at least once
per week. Properties within close proximity of the city limits may choose to
subscribe to the city’s sanitation service. This section shall not apply to
areas where garbage is not capable of accumulating indefinitely such as poles,
lift stations, etc.
(Am. Ord. 355, passed 3-10-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 CONTAINER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the sanitation collection service to provide a
container or containers for garbage and refuse for every utility account. The
container shall be sufficient in size and number to accommodate and securely
keep all garbage and refuse that may accumulate between collections. Garbage
containers shall be watertight and constructed of a solid and durable grade of
metal, plastic, or paper material.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to place their garbage
containers directly in the alley abutting their property. In the absence of an
alley or if otherwise noted, the garbage containers shall be placed behind the
curbline of the street abutting their property. In no event shall containers be
placed in the street or on the sidewalk or in any manner placed where the
containers will interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic. It shall be the
responsibility of the subscriber to place the containers no earlier than 6:00
p.m. of the afternoon preceding the collection day and be removed by 6:00 p.m.
the day of collection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 MEDDLING WITH TRASH RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to meddle with garbage cans or rubbish
receptacles or in any way steal, search or scatter contents of garbage cans or
rubbish receptacles in or upon any street or alley within the city limits. It
shall also be unlawful to deposit garbage or rubbish in a receptacle other than
one’s own.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons authorized by the city or
persons authorized by state or federal law to search or otherwise meddle with
trash receptacles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 CONTAINERS TO BE KEPT SANITARY AND SECURE.
   All containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
or breed flies, mosquitoes, or other insects. The area surrounding garbage
containers shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. The contents
of all receptacles shall be protected so that the wind cannot scatter the
contents over the streets, alleys or other property within the city. All
containers shall be securely closed in a manner as to prevent the scattering of
the contents and to make them inaccessible to insects, rodents and other
animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 UNAUTHORIZED PRIVATE COLLECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport garbage or refuse for
hire which has been collected from any premises within the city over any public
street within the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person who at the time of the
activity is operating under a valid contract or franchise granted by the city
which authorizes that person to use the public streets to conduct that
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 SANITATION SERVICE: CITY OPTIONS.
   The City Council may provide for sanitation collection services within the
city by use of city employees and vehicles, or it may contract with a
sanitation collection service under the terms and conditions of §
51.11.
§ 51.08 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit any
garbage, trash, debris, stagnant water or dead animal into, upon or along any
public property or private property of another, except as may be specifically
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of
any premises within the city to permit any of the conditions described in
division (A) to exist upon property owned or controlled by him or her after
having actual or constructive notice thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any
material other than as specifically provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage or
trash except as provided for by this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match,
charcoal, ember, or other material in any container used for the disposal of
garbage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS; CONTAINER TYPES; COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of
multi-family, institutional or industrial premises within the city to cause all
garbage and trash accumulated on the premises to be placed in containers
provided by the sanitation service. Containers may be used and may be placed at
a location on the premises as arranged between the customer and the collector,
but subject to review by the city at any time.
   (B)   Containers provided by the sanitation service shall be placed at a
location on the premises which is readily accessible to the collector.
   (C)   The amount and character of garbage shall be considered in
establishing size of commercial containers and frequency of pickup. The city
shall have final authority to establish the size and frequency based on the
history of amount and type of garbage generated by the customer. The collection
and removal of garbage and trash from premises used for commercial,
institutional, or industrial purposes shall be made as often as necessary in
order to maintain the premises free of accumulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 MANNER OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and disposal of all refuse shall be carried on
in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the city in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage and
trash shall be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent
blowing or scattering of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported
for disposal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.11 CONTRACTING FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to provide for a continuous system of refuse
collection and disposal in a manner which meets the needs and conveniences of
the residents of the city and in order to protect the area from the problems of
uncoordinated, unsanitary and improper solid waste disposal, the City Council
may determine that it is in the best interests of the residents of the city to
require a written contract of persons collecting or hauling garbage and rubbish
for hire, reserving to the city the right and authority to contract with one or
more operators to provide these services.
   (B)   Contracts. No person may collect or haul garbage or rubbish within the
city without first obtaining a contract from the City Council. The contract
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Description of the equipment which will be used within the city by
the applicant;
      (3)   A schedule of the rate that will be charged by the applicant for
the types of customers within the city;
      (4)   Evidence of compliance with the other applicable sections of this
chapter.
   (C)   Franchise. The City Council may exercise its reserved right to
contract with one or more operators for the collection of garbage and rubbish
within the city.
   (D)   Suspension of contract. A contract issued under the provisions of this
section may be revoked or suspended for a violation of this chapter or other
applicable regulations of law upon a showing that the contractor has failed to
comply with that regulation.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. The contractor shall show financial
responsibility or a certificate of insurance coverage prior to obtaining the
franchise whereby each vehicle to be used by the contractor shall be covered
against loss or injury in the following amounts: $300,000 when the claim is one
for death by wrongful act or omission and $300,000 to any claimant in any other
case; $1,000,000 for any number of claims arising out of a single occurrence.
The contractor shall hold the city harmless and agrees to defend and indemnify
the city, and the city's employees and agents, for any claims, damages, losses,
and expenses related to the work under the contract. The city shall be named as
an additional insured under that insurance for the services provided under the
contract. The contractor's insurance shall be the primary insurance for the
city and the contractor shall provide a certificate of insurance on the city's
approved form which verifies the existence of the insurance required, including
provisions to hold the city harmless and defend and indemnify the city. The
contractor shall also provide evidence of workers compensation insurance for
employees. These insurance policies shall be for the full term of the franchise
and shall provide for the giving of ten days prior notice to the city of the
termination or cancellation of these policies. In case any policies are
terminated or cancelled, the contract shall be automatically revoked upon
receipt by the City Clerk of the termination or cancellation.
   (F)   Design of equipment. All trucks or motor vehicles used by the
contractor shall be water-tight so as not to allow the leakage of liquids or
refuse while hauling the same and shall be covered with a covering to prevent
the scattering of its contents upon the public streets or private properties in
the city.
   (G)   Inspections. All vehicles used for garbage or rubbish shall be made
available for inspection within the city at the times and places as the City
Council may designate.
   (H)   Bond. The contractor may be required to furnish a surety bond in an
amount as the City Council deems necessary running to and approved by the City
Council, guaranteeing the franchisee's faithful and continuous performance of
the terms of the franchise or contract and of this chapter.
   (I)   Supervision. The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent shall supervise
the collection of refuse.
§ 51.12 COLLECTION OF LEAVES, TREES OR TREE LIMBS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the collection for
hire by other persons of leaves, trees or tree limbs.
CHAPTER 52: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
52.003   Building sewers; general requirements
   
52.004   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
52.005   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
   
52.006   Creating and establishing one sewer district
General Regulations
   
52.015   Deposits of unsanitary manner prohibited
   
52.016   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
52.017   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
52.018   Installation of service connection to public sewer
   
52.019   Failure to connect to a public sewer
   
52.020   Establishing point-of-sale certification
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.035   Public sewer not available
   
52.036   Permits
   
52.037   Type, capacities, location and layout
   
52.038   Direct connection required
   
52.039   Operation and maintenance by owner
   
52.040   Application of subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.055   Restrictions on new connections
   
52.056   Building sewer permits
   
52.057   Costs and expenses
   
52.058   Separate building sewers required
   
52.059   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
52.060   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
52.061   Elevation below basement floor
   
52.062   Surface runoff or groundwater connections prohibited and exceptions
   
52.063   Excavations
   
52.064   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
52.080   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
52.081   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
52.082   Limited discharges
   
52.083   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
52.084   Increasing use of process water
   
52.085   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
52.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.087   Industrial wastes; installations
   
52.088   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
52.089   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
52.090   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
52.091   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
52.092   Repairing service connection
   
52.093   Catch basin or waste traps required for motor vehicle washing or
servicing facilities
   
52.094   Special agreement and arrangement
Inspection Powers and Authority
   
52.120   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
52.121   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
52.122   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
52.123   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. 1252 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This city or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1345)
or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.), or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal
or use employed by the city.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 U.S.C. 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1342 and 33 U.S.C. 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than 1/2-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC WORKS/UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City
Council to supervise the sewer and water systems of the city.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time for a disposal system as defined
by M.S. § 115.01(8), as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
§ 52.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by
the City Council shall have control and general supervision of all public
sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for
administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
§ 52.003 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, which is those chapters of Minn. Rules
referenced in Minn. Rules part 1300.2400, subpart 6, as they may be amended
from time to time, and the Minnesota Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it
may be amended from time to time. The applicant shall notify the City Clerk
when the building sewer and connection is ready for inspection. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of the Building Official or the Building
Official's representative, if the city has adopted the State Building Code. If
the city has not adopted the State Building Code, the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent shall perform the inspection. If the city does not have a Public
Works/Utilities Superintendent, an installer licensed under §
52.064 shall certify that the building sewer and connection comply with the
State Building Code. No backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected and approved, or until the certification has been received.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
§ 52.006 CREATING AND ESTABLISHING ONE SEWER DISTRICT.
   (A)   All of the territory contained within the boundaries or city limits
shall constitute one sewer district.
   (B)   Any assessment for repairs or improvements on Lac qui Parle County
Ditch #18, County Ditch #15, and Watershed District #27 and branches thereto
that serve the city shall be assessed to and paid by the city. The city shall
take into consideration such assessments in establishing rates from time to
time for its storm sewer utility. The assumption or assessments by the city
shall be for any repairs or improvements to the above described ditches
commenced on or after January 1, 2003.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-12-2002)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.015 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the city's jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet, wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS
permit.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged,
and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sanitary sewer of the city shall be required at the owner's expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of this code within 180 days of the date the public sewer is
operational; provided, the public sewer is within 200 feet of the structure
generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official ten- day notice shall be served instructing the affected property
owner to make the connection.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019 FAILURE TO CONNECT TO A PUBLIC SEWER.
   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in compliance
with a notice given under §
52.018, the city shall undertake to have the connection made and shall assess
the cost thereof against the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied,
shall bear interest at the rate determined by the City Council and shall be
certified to the County Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the city
in the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the
city shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.020 ESTABLISHING POINT-OF-SALE CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Scope and intent. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
real estate which is connected to the city’s sanitary sewer and located within
the city. It is the intent of this section to identify and eliminate inflow and
infiltration resulting from cracked and leaking pipes, foundation drain
connections, roof drain connections, and sump pump connections.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms are
defined as follows:
      BUYER. Any person or entity who purchases a property or to whom title to
a property is conveyed.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The BUILDING OFFICIAL appointed by the City Council
and/or the BUILDING OFFICIAL’S designee.
      CITY CLERK-TREASURER. The CITY CLERK-TREASURER appointed by the City
Council and/or the CITY CLERK-TREASURER designee.
      CLOSING. The date in which the ownership of the property is transferred
to the buyer.
      POINT-OF-SALE CERTIFICATION or CERTIFICATION. The certificate provided by
the city evidencing compliance with this section.
      QUALIFIED PERSON. A person qualified to complete an inspection and
certification under division (D)(3) of this section.
      SALE or SOLD. The transfer of title to a property.
      SELLER. The current owner of real estate as identified in the property
records on file at the Lac qui Parle County Auditor’s Office or by Court Order.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer lines. All sanitary sewer lines serving property,
from the building to the main line, shall be in a safe and functional condition
and shall be free from all leaks, failures including but not limited to sags,
partially collapsed sections or tree root intrusion.
      (2)   In addition, all sanitary sewer lines shall meet the standards and
specifications established in City Code Chapter 52.
   (D)   Point-of-sale certification required and monies escrowed for
deficiencies.
      (1)   No property which is connected to the city’s sanitary sewer shall
be sold within the city unless the seller or buyer has provided a point-of-sale
certification to the city prior to closing. The certification shall certify
that the property has been inspected and is in compliance with the requirements
of this section. Certifications shall be valid for five years from the date of
signature.
      (2)   The certification shall be in the form provided by the city and
required one digital copy of the televising report be provided to the city
along with the written report.
      (3)   The inspection and certification of sanitary sewer lines must be
completed by a qualified person. A qualified person is a plumber licensed by
the State of Minnesota or another sewer professional pre-approved by the city.
      (4)   The fee for inspection and preparation of the certification by the
contractor shall be paid by the buyer or seller. There shall be no fee paid to
the city.
      (5)   Any deficiencies discovered during the inspection shall be
disclosed prior to closing and shall be corrected within 12 months from the
closing. The seller shall provide proof to the city that funds were placed in
an escrow account at closing to cover the required repairs.
   (E)   Exceptions. Certifications are not required for the following:
      (1)   A property where the Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by
the Building Official within three years prior to the sale of the dwelling
unit.
      (2)   A property sold or transferred by a court ruling including wills,
probate actions, divorce, and estate settlements.
      (3)   A property that is without buildings or contains no dwelling or
other buildings with plumbing fixtures.
      (4)   A property which is sold to a foreclosing mortgagee which holds a
mortgage on the dwelling unit.
      (5)   The transfer does not require the filing of a Certificate of Real
Estate Value, as described in M.S. § 272.115, Subd. 1.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   Criminal remedies. The failure of any seller or buyer to comply
with the provisions of this section or to comply with an order issued by the
city pursuant to this section shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Civil remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies, this section
may be enforced by injunction, action for abatement or other appropriate civil
remedy.
   (G)   Warranty disclaimer by the city. By enacting and undertaking to
enforce this section, neither the city nor its Council, agents or employees
warrant or guarantee the safety, fitness or suitability of any property in the
city.
(Ord. 385, passed 4-27-2020)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter and Minn. Rules Ch.
7080, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may be amended from
time to time.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.036 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit
signed by the city. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary to the city.
   (B)   Inspections. A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
the city or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of notice.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.037 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, Individual
Sewage Treatment Systems Program, as they may be amended from time to time. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.038 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 365 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 365
days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit
drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.039 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
§ 52.040 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.055 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.056 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent or
authorized representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.057 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.058 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.059 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent or his or her representative, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
§ 52.060 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED AND EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump pumps, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system. However, in
certain locations where surface storm water discharge would create a safety
hazard during freezing weather, connection to the sanitary sewer may be
maintained from November 15 to April 15. In no case, shall any connection to
the sanitary sewer be maintained from April 16 to November 14. Exceptions will
be granted by permit on a case by case basis as determined by the city
designated official. City Council may establish by resolution permit fees and
fines from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 377, passed 1-23-17) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.064 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall make a service connection with any public
sewer unless regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except a regularly licensed person. A
person licensed as a plumber by the State of Minnesota, or a person in the
ditch installing the pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a
program of training that incorporates the Plumbing Code installation
requirements, issued by either the Associated Builders and Contractors,
Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or Minnesota Utility
Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license to make a service
connection with public sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent or recommendations to the
Council. If approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon the filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of
insurance to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley or public ground made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over that opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights,
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent, and shall conform in all respects to any rules and
regulations of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be
imposed on the licensee by law.
   (D)   Fee. The license fee for making service connections shall be as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, and which may be
stated in §
34.01, as that ordinance may be amended from time to time. All licenses shall
expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is suspended or
revoked by the Council for cause.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license.
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee.
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
Penalty, see §
52.999
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 52.080 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or caused to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.081 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317(a)).
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.082 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent may set limitations lower than limitations established in the
regulations below if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the
acceptability of wastes, the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent will give
consideration to factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows
and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature
of the sewage treatment process, the city's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the
sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent are as
follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F (65.6° C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104° F (40°
C), or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become glutinous at temperatures between 32° F and 150° F (0° C and
65.6° C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of
mineral origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined in §
52.001.
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
52.001 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or foul smelling liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids such as but not
limited to fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317(b)): Arsenic,
Cadmium, Copper, Cyanide, Lead, Mercury, Nickel, Silver, total Chromium, Zinc
and Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
52.094.
§ 52.083 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
52.082, or which in the judgement of the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities,
processes, or equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and ground
water, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317(b))
and all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
§ 52.084 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
52.081 and
52.082, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.085 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
§ 52.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as
specified in §
52.082(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
52.081(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent. Any
removal and hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's
personnel must be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.087 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. The structure
shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.088 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at
times and in the manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At
those times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.089 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.090 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent for review and approval
prior to construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter. Users shall notify the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent
immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of substances of
wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable countermeasures to be taken
by the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. The notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and federal law. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or discover a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or
neglect to install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or
alter the same after the period of 30 days, the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent may cause the work to be completed at the expense of the owner
or representative thereof.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.092 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Public Works/Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a
person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of
this section, and the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent may then cause the
work to be done, and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an
action in the name of the city.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.093 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.094 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
INSPECTION POWERS AND AUTHORITY
§ 52.120 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees
of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observations,
measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's
sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
§ 52.121 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees
are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have
a direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater
collection system. An industry may withhold information considered
confidential; however, the industry must establish that the revelation to the
public of the information in question might result in an advantage to
competitors.
§ 52.122 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the property owner.
The property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the property owner against loss or
damage to its property by city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.087.
§ 52.123 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees
of the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
52.001 through
52.094 and
52.120 through
52.123 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day in which any violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.001 through
52.094 and
52.120 through
52.123 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of that violation.
CHAPTER 53: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   General operation
   
53.02   Use of water service
   
53.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
53.04   Damage to water system
   
53.05   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
53.06   Connection to system required; use of private wells
   
53.07   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
53.08   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
53.25   Supply from one service
   
53.26   Tapping of mains restricted
   
53.27   Repairs
   
53.28   Abandoned or unused services
   
53.29   Service pipes
   
53.30   Excavation and construction requirements
   
53.31   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
53.32   Water connections; applications and charges
   
53.33   Location of curb stop box
   
53.34   Water meters
Rates and Charges
   
53.50   Water unit
   
53.51   Water rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.70   Supervision by Public Works/Utilities Superintendent; licensing
   
53.71   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.72   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
53.73   Liability for expense, loss or damage
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
§ 53.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a city employee shall uncover or make or use any water
service installation connected to the city water system except in the manner
provided by this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary
to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
city water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
city and any other city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed, maintained and
continued in use after connection is made to the water system; provided, there
is no means of cross- connection between the private well and municipal water
supply at any time. Hose bibs that will enable the cross-connection of the two
systems are prohibited on internal piping of the well system supply. Where both
private and city systems are in use, outside hose bibs shall not be installed
on both systems.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available to existing homes or buildings, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within a period of time as determined by the City Council. If
the connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in
an amount established by Ch. 50.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the city shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   If the well is not to be used after the time a municipal water
connection is made:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   The casing shall be filled with sandy soil from the bottom to a
point eight feet from the top;
      (3)   The remaining eight feet shall be filled with concrete to the floor
level and the well casing cut off as close to the floor level as possible;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Public Works/Utilities Superintendent
that the well has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725, Wells
and Borings, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city as follows:
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter, which
shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges for
use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized city
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge as established pursuant to
Ch. 34 or
Ch. 50 for each day including Sundays and legal holidays, and a fee as
established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, and which may be
stated in §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time for each 100 gallons of water used.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. Private connections to fire
hydrants is strongly discouraged. However, when special circumstances warrant
an owner of a private water system may make a temporary above ground connection
to a fire hydrant, subject to the time periods, conditions, and payment
specified in
Ch. 50. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and city ordinance and the
type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause whatsoever. In
case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of construction of new
works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and kept off as long as
necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the right to impose
reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water system in emergency
situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be discontinued
according to the procedures established in
Ch. 50.
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 53.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the city, the city will make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the city's responsibility. If the problem, appears to exist in the areas for
which the city has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The city will attempt to thaw water
services on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that
portion of the service for which the private owner is responsible, the private
owner thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of
the problem.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The city will arrange for the investigative digging up and repair
of any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the city has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the city, the excavation and repair will not be made until
the property owner requests the city in writing to excavate or repair the
service and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed or billed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is
found to be other than the city's responsibility. The city will make the
determination for responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by city forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of city forces to do the work. Recovery by the city for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water may be turned off by the city
and shall not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant
to
Ch. 50 has been paid to the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service shall be shut off at the curb
stop box by the city and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains shall be made until all the old service has been removed and the main
taps plugged or yoked connections installed by the city at the owner's expense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.29 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than seven feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. Type K copper tubing shall be used
up to and including two-inch services. All services over two inches shall be
ductile or cast iron. All underground joints are to be mechanical, except
joints under floors shall be silver soldered, unless otherwise approved by the
Public Works/Utilities Superintendent. Joints of copper tubing shall be kept,
to a minimum, with not more than one joint used for service for each 70 feet in
length. Splicing may be approved with three-piece unions only. All joints and
connections shall be left uncovered until inspected by the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent and tested at normal water line pressure. Unions must
be three-part type. All services over two inches shall be cast iron.
Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least three-quarter
inch up to the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.30 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the city.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 4715, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least one foot above the sewer and on
a solid shelf excavated at one side of the trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a
material that is in conformance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested
watertight joints. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant. Copper pipe and ductile or cast iron water pipe with specially
protected joints is acceptable for this construction. Cast iron pipe shall
conform to the American Water Works Association specifications for this pipe.
Bell joint clamps with rubber gaskets are provisionally acceptable as extra
protection for the joints on cast iron water pipe. In all cases, precautions
shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the pipes. The intervening space
between the pipes shall be backfilled with compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation
Standards. Complete surface restoration shall be made.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.31 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.32 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk. All applications for service installations and
water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served
and shall state the size and location of service connection required. The
applicant shall, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount
of fees as established by the Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, and
which may be stated in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time or deposit required for the
installation of the service connection as hereinafter provided. Applications
for services larger than one inch shall be accompanied by two sets of plans or
sketches indicating preferred location of service pipe and size of service
based on building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to
Ch. 50. The city shall install or have installed all service connections from
the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box. Payment for service
connections must be made before the work is started and should be based upon 1½
times the estimate of costs provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit
shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation cocks, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to
Ch. 50 levied by the city to contribute to the payment of the costs of the
Public Water System Facilities. The City Council shall set by resolution the
charges to be made for non-residential installations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.33 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of seven
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence,
plant any tree or erect other landscaping, place a structure on, park a motor
vehicle on or near, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop box, or
cause damage to the same.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.34 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
city. No person not authorized by the City Council or Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change
or cause to be changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof, or
break any meter or valve seal.
      (1)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and “Y” off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (2)   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (3)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing the amount established pursuant to
Ch. 50. In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, a
correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (4)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the city.
      (5)   Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections.
      (6)   The account holder or property owner/manager may request a final
reading at the time of the customer ‘s billing change. In the event of a
dispute between the property owner/manager and account holder, the City Clerk’s
office shall honor the claim of the account holder.
      (7)   Outside water meters. Residents may purchase water meters from the
city for outdoor water consumption at their own expense. Water consumption
shown on the outdoor meter shall be subtracted from the consumer's sewer charge
and refunded twice annually.
      (8)   Discrepancies in water meter readings. Whenever there is a
discrepancy in readings between any outdoor reader and indoor water meter, the
Clerk's office shall use the reading on the indoor meter for billing purposes.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
§ 53.51 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to
Ch. 50.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the city shall be determined by §
34.01.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to
Ch. 50 shall begin to accrue after connection of the service pipe with the curb
stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house and a
remote register outside regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the regular or minimum charge shall continue until the date as
service is disconnected at the curb box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.70 SUPERVISION BY PUBLIC WORKS/UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the
curb stop box on the house side shall be inspected by the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent. The water meter installation shall be inspected,
tested and the meter sealed by the Public Works/Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on the occupation
from the city. A master plumber licensed by the state under the provisions of
M.S. § 326.40, as it may be amended from time to time, is exempt from the
provisions of this section. A person in the ditch installing the pipe who has a
card showing that they have completed a program of training that incorporates
the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the Associated
Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or
Minnesota Utility Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing
requirements of this section.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence of public
liability insurance, including products liability insurance with limits of at
least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per occurrence and property damage
insurance with limits of at least $10,000. Evidence of insurance required
pursuant to M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall satisfy this requirement.
      (2)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a surety bond
guaranteeing the conformance and compliance of work with this chapter. The bond
shall be in the amount of $2,000. The city shall hold the bond for one year
following the license period. Failure to comply with provisions and
requirements of this chapter shall result in forfeiture of the bond. The
applicant may comply with the requirements of M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time in lieu of these requirements.
      (3)   Applications for licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk and
shall be reviewed and subject to approval of the city.
      (4)   Any installation, construction, alteration of a water connection by
a license in violation of any provision of this chapter or refusal on the part
of a licensee to correct the defective work shall be cause for revocation of or
refusal to renew a license. This license may be revoked or refused for renewal
by the city at any time for cause which shall be documented in writing.
   (C)   All licenses required in this section shall be renewable annually.
Applications for licenses shall be made annually on a form furnished by the
City Clerk. Licenses shall be in effect from January 1 to December 31 of the
same year. The license fee shall be established pursuant to
Ch. 50.
   (D)   Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing by the
City Council to show cause why the license should not be revoked or refused.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be in writing at
least five business days prior to the date of the hearing.
§ 53.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Public Works/Utilities Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the city, upon proper identification, shall be permitted to enter
upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
§ 53.72 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on or off any
water supply at the curb stop box.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.73 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Establishment of stormwater drainage utility
   
54.02   Rates and charges
   
54.03   Public hearing notice
   
54.04   Exemptions
   
54.05   Payment of charges
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER DRAINAGE UTILITY.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from
time to time, the city establishes a storm water drainage utility and
authorizes the imposition of just and reasonable charges for the use and
availability of storm sewer facilities as may be established in
Ch. 50.
   (B)   Findings and determinations.
      (1)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city
has constructed, operated and maintained a storm sewer system (“the system”).
This section is adopted in further exercise of such authority and for the same
purposes.
      (2)   The system, as constructed heretofore, has been financed and paid
for through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes. It is
now necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of recovering some
or all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and operating the system
through the imposition of charges as provided in this section.
      (3)   In imposing charges it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some of the future
costs of operating, maintaining and improving the system on the basis of the
expected storm water runoff from the various parcels of land within the city
during a standard rainfall event. For the purposes of this section, a STANDARD
RAINFALL EVENT is defined as the 100-year storm of one-day duration. It is
assumed that there is five times as much runoff from impervious land as land
covered with vegetation for the standard rainfall event.
      (4)   Assigning costs and making charges based upon expected typical
storm water runoff cannot be done with mathematical precision but can only be
accomplished within reasonable and practical limits. The provisions of this
section undertake to establish a reasonable and practical methodology for
making such charges.
(Ord. 305, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 54.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates and charges for the use and availability of the system shall be
determined through the use of a base charge and a “Residential Equivalent
Factor” (“REF”). For the purposes of this section, one REF is defined as the
ratio of the average volume of surface water runoff coming from one acre of
land and subjected to a particular use, to the average volume of runoff coming
from one acre of land subjected to typical single-family residential use within
the city during a standard rainfall event.
   (B)   (1)   In determining charges the City Council shall by resolution
establish a basic system rate to be charged against one acre of land having an
REF of one. The charge to be made against each parcel of land shall then be
determined by multiplying the REF for the parcel’s land use classification
times the parcel’s acreage times the basic system rate. The REF’s for the
following land uses within the city are as follows:
 
Land Use                                   REF
Parks, cemeteries                          0.70
Single-family & duplex residential         1.00
Public and private schools & institutional 1.30
Multiple-family residential                0.50 per unit
Highway commercial & churches              1.70
Downtown commercial & industrial           2.30
 
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating storm water drainage charges, all
developed single-family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have an
acreage of 1/4 acre per unit. Duplexes shall be considered to be two units.
   (C)   Other land uses. Other land uses listed in subsection (B)(1) shall be
classified by the City Manager in consultation with the City Engineer by
assigning them to classes most nearly like the listed uses, from the standpoint
of runoff volume for the standard rainfall event. An appeal from the City
Manager’s determination of the property classification may be made to the City
Council.
   (D)   Adjustment of charges. The City Council may by resolution adopt
policies providing for the adjustment of charges for parcels or groups of
parcels, based upon land use data supplied by affected property owners, which
data demonstrates a runoff volume for the standard rainfall event substantially
different from the REF being used for the parcel or parcels. The adjustment
shall be made only upon recommendation of the Director of Public Works and
shall not be made effective retroactively.
(Ord. 305, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 54.03 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE.
   The city shall hold a hearing prior to determining whether to build,
construct, enlarge or improve storm sewer facilities financed in whole or in
part by the imposition of storm sewer drainage charges. Notice of the hearing
shall be published in the official city newspaper at least ten days prior to
the date of hearing. Owners of all property adjoining a proposed improvement
shall be mailed or served with a notice at least ten days in advance of the
hearing. However, failure to give mailed notice or any defects in the notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings.
(Ord. 305, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 54.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Public street rights-of-way are exempt from storm water drainage charges.
(Ord. 305, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 54.05 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Storm water bills shall specify the charges and shall be mailed to the
property owner or other persons responsible for payment. Payment shall be due
and payable in full upon receipt of the bill.
   (B)   Establishment of tax lien. Any past due storm water drainage fees of
any year may be certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate
taxes in the following year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time. In addition, the city shall have the right to bring
a civil action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid charges.
   (C)   Recalculation of charges. If a property owner or person responsible
for paying the storm water drainage charges questions the correctness of such a
charge, the person may have the determination of the charge recomputed by
written request to the City Clerk. The request shall be made within 30 days of
the mailing of the billing in question. If the City Clerk denies the request,
the person may appeal to City Council for a hearing.
(Ord. 305, passed 6-10-2002)
CHAPTER 55: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
   
55.01   General provisions
   
55.02   Residential service
   
55.03   Commercial service
   
55.04   Municipal service
   
55.05   Street lighting
   
55.06   Security lighting
   
55.07   Connections
   
55.08   Service interruption
   
55.09   Voltage fluctuations caused by customer
   
55.10   Conditions of service
   
55.11   Protection of equipment
   
55.12   Temporary service
   
55.13   Standby and resale of electricity
   
55.14   Aggregation of demand response
§ 55.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Code requirement. All wiring, connections and appurtenances shall be
installed and performed strictly in accordance with the National Electrical
Code. Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith upon
discovery by the city may be grounds for termination of electrical service to
any consumer.
   (B)   Services. New or changed service installations shall be made at the
expense of the consumer, placed at a location determined by the city. The meter
location shall also be designated by the city.
   (C)   Electrical installations. All electrical installations shall comply
with the following where applicable:
      (1)   Motors of 20 HP or more must have line compensators on same.
Provided, however, that the city may, at its option, make an exception if the
total connected motors load required is smaller than the consumer connected
load, and the motor starting current is less than the current corresponding to
the consumer’s total connected load.
      (2)   All motor installations of over ½ HP shall be served by a minimum
of 240 volts and all motors in excess of 5 HP shall be three-phase.
      (3)   The city may make an installation charge for extraordinary expenses
required by a consumer.
   (D)   Point of delivery. The point of delivery is the point designated by
the city on the customer’s premises where current is to be delivered to the
premises. All wiring and equipment beyond the point of delivery shall be
maintained by the customer.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.02 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available for single phase residential service not
exceeding a 400 amp service furnished through one meter and subject to the
established rules and regulations of the city.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase, 60 hertz at 120/240 volts, 200
amps maximum.
   (C)   Rates. Rates shall be established pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.03 COMMERCIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any customer not considered a residential
service.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase or three phase, 60 hertz, available
secondary voltage in the area.
   (C)   Rates. Rates shall be established pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.04 MUNICIPAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Availability. Available to any municipally owned facilities.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase or three phase.
   (C)   Rates. Rate shall be established pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.05 STREET LIGHTING.
   (A)   Availability. Available for all municipally owned street lighting.
   (B)   Character of service. Single phase.
   (C)   Rates. Rates shall be established pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.06 SECURITY LIGHTING.
   (A)   Availability. Available at the customers request for security lighting
and limited to light fixtures.
   (B)   Character of service. Provide all energy and maintenance.
   (C)   Rates. Rates shall be established pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.07 CONNECTIONS.
   Only utility personnel or utility authorized personnel are permitted to
connect or disconnect utility services. In the case of scheduled service
interruptions, every effort within reason will be made to notify the customer
(s) of the time, anticipated duration, and reason for services disruption. If a
service is disconnected for non-payment, the customer will be notified in
accordance with the established disconnection procedure.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.08 SERVICE INTERRUPTION.
   The City of Madison is committed to doing everything within its means to
provide an adequate supply of electrical power for its customers.
Unfortunately, due to a variety of factors including but not limited to
weather, equipment failure, accidents, interruption of power supply from other
sources, there is no guarantee of continuous, uninterrupted service to any
customer. Therefore, the customer is responsible to provide protection for
their own property if an interruption of electric service damage may result
from an interruption in electric service. Because of these factors, the City of
Madison disclaims all liability for all damages for any failure to deliver
electric power hereunder except for its own voluntary act or neglect to
exercise reasonable care and diligence in performance of its duties.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.09 VOLTAGE FLUCTUATIONS CAUSED BY CUSTOMER.
   Electric service must not be used in such a manner as to cause unusual
fluctuations or disturbances to the city’s electrical system. The city may
require a customer at his or her expense to install suitable apparatus(s) which
will reasonably limit such fluctuations.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.10 CONDITIONS OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Service connections. All new service connections shall be underground
in all cases except where it is not practical or economically feasible. It
shall be the customer’s responsibility to inform the city of the preferred
routing of cables and location of service entrance (meter box). The city will
furnish and install the service cables from the transformer or pedestal
secondary terminals to a point below the intended service entrance. The
trenching shall be the responsibility of the customer. Generally, service
entrances shall be located at the rear side of the residence to permit access
to city personnel. Wire ends shall be coiled at the building of such lengths
sufficient for connection to the meter box terminals. The city shall furnish
the meter. However, furnishing, connecting, and maintaining the wires to the
box are the responsibility of the customer. City personnel shall not perform
any work on materials or devices which are physically attached to any building
other than inserting and removing the electrical meter. The property owner
shall grant an easement to the city for placement of the necessary electrical
facilities in the location needed.
   (B)   Maintenance. Maintenance of the cables before the meter is the
responsibility of the city. Maintenance of the meter box installation
(including conduit) is the customer’s responsibility. Replacement of grass,
shrubs, concrete or asphalt slabs, landscaping, etc. is also the customer’s
responsibility. The city is not responsible for any maintenance required due to
customer inflicted damage to any part of the service connection beyond the
transformer or pedestal secondary terminals. In such cases, any work done by
city personnel or contractors working for the city to restore service may be
billed to the customer.
   (C)   Replacement or modification.  Any replacement or modification of the
initial service due to customer requirements such as load growth or remodeling
of the premises is the customer’s responsibility.
   (D)   Extension of services. In cases where a customer requests service to a
location where an extension of the distribution lines is required, the customer
may be required to participate in the cost of such extension when the
anticipated revenue from such service will be insufficient to justify the
expense of the city alone.
   (E)   Meters. A separate meter is required for each residential household or
occupancy. Similarly, a separate meter is required for each commercial or
industrial establishment or occupancy.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.11 PROTECTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Customer responsibilities. The customer shall protect the equipment of
the city on his or her premises and shall not interfere with or alter, permit
interference with or alterations of the city’s material or other property
except by duly authorized representatives of the city.
   (B)   Damage. In the case of loss or damage to the property of the city due
to, caused by, or arising from carelessness, neglect, or misuse by the customer
or other unauthorized persons, the cost of the necessary replacement and
repairs shall be paid by the customer.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.12 TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   (A)   Definition. Temporary service is intended to be supplied at secondary
voltage only to customers for use during construction of permanent facilities
and before the permanent service can be installed.
   (B)   Costs. Costs for temporary service construction and dismantling shall
be paid by the customer. The city will provide a meter. However, it is the
customer’s responsibility to provide a suitable support for mounting the meter
socket and attaching the service drop cables. All temporary services will be
metered and billed at rates pursuant to §
50.02.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.13 STANDBY AND RESALE OF ELECTRICITY.
   All purchased electric service (other than emergency or standby service)
used on the premises of a customer shall be supplied exclusively by the city.
Customers shall not, directly or indirectly, sell, sublet, assign, or otherwise
dispose of the electric service or any part thereof.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 55.14 AGGREGATION OF DEMAND RESPONSE.
   (A)   Aggregation of retail customer demand response.
      (1)   The City of Madison or its authorized designee is the sole entity
permitted to bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the
city directly into any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or
regional transmission organization’s organized electric markets.
      (2)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized electric markets may do so by
participating in the program established by the city or its authorized
designee. Retail customers are not permitted to participate in the demand
response program of any other entity without the express prior authorization of
the city.
   (B)   Ancillary service provided by demand response resources.
      (1)   The city its authorized designee is the sole entity permitted to
bid demand response on behalf of retail customers served by the city directly
into any Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff).
      (2)   Retail customers served by the city wishing to bid their demand
response into a Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s organized markets for energy imbalance, spinning
reserves, supplemental reserves, reactive power and voltage control, or
regulation and frequency response ancillary services (or its functional
equivalent in the Commission-approved independent system operator’s or regional
transmission organization’s tariff) may do so by participating in the program
established by the city or its authorized designee. Retail customers are not
permitted to participate in the demand response program of any other entity
without the express prior authorization of the city.
(Ord. 365, passed 10-12-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   SNOWMOBILES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Stop intersections
   
70.04   Through streets and one-way streets
   
70.05   Turning restrictions
   
70.06   U-turns restricted
   
70.07   Excessive noise
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Cruising prohibited
   
70.10   Unreasonable acceleration
   
70.11   Harming an animal with a vehicle prohibited
Parades
   
70.20   Parade standards of conduct
   
70.21   Public conduct during parades
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of
highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statues for the same offense.
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel
by commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited.
The Chief of Police shall cause appropriate signs to be erected on those
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on posted streets in
violation of the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) shall not apply to
city or emergency vehicles, public school buses or to garbage and refuse trucks
making regular collections and are under contract with the city, nor shall the
weight restrictions in division (A) apply if a commercial vehicle must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The city may designate intersections as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to those intersections. The city
shall post signs at those designated intersections, giving notice of the
designation as a stop intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail
to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of a
street as a through street or one-way street where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. No trunk highway shall be so
designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the
designation is first secured. The city shall cause appropriate signs to be
posted at the entrance to designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to preserve a
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one
where turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be
restricted at all times or during specified hours. No intersection on a trunk
highway shall be so designated until the consent of the Commissioner of
Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
   (B)   The city shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
   (C)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction on any street
in the business district or at any intersection where traffic is regulated by a
traffic control signal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. 
         (a)   A distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of nay person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BREAK. A dynamic brake, jake brake, jacobs brake, c-
brake, paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
      LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor-driven
cycle, motorscooter, go cart, minibike, trail bike, or truck with a gross
vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices including but not limited to radios,
phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying
device on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered, or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped. 
   (E)   The following are exempted from the above provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Celebrations on Halloween and other legal holidays and celebrations
in connection with duly authorized parades.
   (F)   Engine breaking.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or
permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a
muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
      (3)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise
limits) and Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050 as these statutes and
rules may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
      (4)   Signs stating “Vehicle Noise Laws Enforced” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “Vehicle
Noise Laws Enforced” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
operations of skeet, trap or shooting sports clubs, motor vehicle race events
conducted at a facility specifically designed for that purpose, county fair or
a community event or celebration.
(Ord. 364, passed 10-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Proof. It is prima facie evidence of exhibition driving when a motor
vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates or turns at an unnecessary rate
of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to grind, soil to be thrown,
engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding or as to two-wheeled motor vehicles,
the front wheel to lost contact with the ground or roadway surface.
   (B)   Unlawful act. No person shall do any exhibition driving on any street,
parking lot or other public or private property, except when an emergency
creates necessity for such operation to prevent injury to persons or damage to
property; provided, that this section shall not apply to driving on a
racetrack. For the purposes of this section, a RACETRACK means any track or
premises whereon motorized vehicles legally compete in a race or timed contest
for an audience, the members of which have directly or indirectly paid a
consideration for admission.
   (C)   Violation. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor subject to a fine as set forth in §
10.99 and the costs of prosecution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, CRUISING means the operation of a motor
vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.01, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, past a traffic control point as determined by a peace officer on a street
in an area designated “No Cruising Zone” by City Council resolution four or
more times between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   The passing of a traffic control point under the conditions previously
stated, shall constitute unnecessary repetitive driving and is a violation of
this section.
   (C)   The following use of vehicles shall constitute valid exceptions to
this prohibition: taxicabs for hire, buses, authorized emergency vehicle,
vehicles use used by or under contract with any governmental jurisdiction, any
vehicle being used to conduct legitimate business activities.
   (D)   This section may be enforced only in an area that has been posted as a
“No Cruising Zone.” Signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of any
public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof which is a no cruising
zone.
§ 70.10 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   (A)   Unlawful act.
      (1)   No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an
unnecessary exhibition of speed on any street, highway, alleyway or public
parking lot within the city.
      (2)   No person shall operate or halt any vehicle upon any street,
highway, alleyway or public parking lot in the city carelessly, heedlessly or
in a manner disregarding the rights or safety of others.
   (B)   Proof. Prima facie evidence of the unnecessary exhibition of speed
shall be squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the throwing of
sand, gravel, snow, or ice by tires of the vehicle or all.
   (C)   Violation. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99, plus costs of prosecution.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 HARMING AN ANIMAL WITH A VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a vehicle with the intent to chase, drive over, kill
or otherwise harm any domestic or non-domestic animal within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
PARADES
§ 70.20 PARADE STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (E)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (F)   The parade organizers shall be responsible for the removal and
disposal of any animal waste resulting from any animal in the parade.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Police Chief or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to the effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No parking where posted
   
71.02   Limited parking
   
71.03   Other parking restrictions
   
71.04   Snow removal; parking prohibited
   
71.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets
   
71.06   Overnight parking
   
71.07   Repairing of vehicles
   
71.08   Prohibiting parking areas in front yards in residential zones
   
71.09   Parking in business district
   
71.10   Parking to obstruct sidewalks or to obstruct traffic prohibited
   
71.11   Parking in direction of traffic
   
71.12   Impoundment
   
71.13   Prima facie violation
   
71.14   Regulation of residential parking
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks, or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution order the placing of signs, devices
or marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   “No parking” signs may be placed by city employees on any street of
the city to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or
similar temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the city, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than one hour on
an alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or
unloading merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is
not available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within one foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 SNOW REMOVAL; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   During snowfall, and continuing thereafter until the streets of the
city have been plowed open to full width, the parking or standing of
automobiles or motorized vehicles of any kind, except physicians on emergency
calls or other emergency personnel, shall be prohibited. Any owner of any
automobile or vehicle of any kind that has been parked in violation of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
   (B)   Parking may be resumed on individual streets as soon as the snow has
been removed from these streets, except as may be otherwise restricted by this
section.
(Ord. 348, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any truck that obstructs
the designed flow of traffic, any driveway, sidewalk, impairs the vision of
motorists, passage of emergency vehicles, or the work of any city employee.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on city streets
overnight: repair, delivery, rented vehicles with commercial plates and refuse
and recycling haulers, utility trailers (boats, snowmobiles and the like) or
any other vehicle not registered as a passenger vehicle.
(Am. Ord. —, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES.
   Minor repairs, limited to those not involving fluids or liquids, shall be
permitted on city streets; provided, that they can be accomplished within the
same day and completed by 10:00 p.m. All other repairs shall be considered
major repairs and shall not be permitted on any city street, unless the repairs
are made within an enclosed structure allowed within the zoning district.
Damage to city streets because of repairs or lack of repairs shall be charged
to the person responsible for the damage to the city streets.
§ 71.08 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall mean and
include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the event there is no
sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building, extending in both
directions to the side lot lines or driveway.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage area or motor
home.
   (D)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the parking of
any motor or recreational vehicle/equipment in a concrete or well defined
driveway.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   There shall be no parking in the business district from 2:00 a.m. to 5:00
a.m.
(Ord. —, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 PARKING TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS OR TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle so as to obstruct the path of a
sidewalk.
   (B)   There shall be no parking or stopping on public streets so as to
obstruct traffic.
(Ord. —, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 PARKING IN DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   The direction of parking should be in the direction of traffic.
(Ord. —, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may order the removal of a vehicle from a street to a
garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until
the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for
violation of this chapter.
§ 71.13 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
§ 71.14 REGULATION OF RESIDENTIAL PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is the regulation of residential
parking to reduce the visual clutter, prevent congestion of the public rights-
of-way, promote the general safety and welfare of the public, and protect the
property values of adjoining properties by controlling the number of vehicles
that may be parked on a residentially zoned lot.
   (B)   Requirements. Parking in all residential districts shall be subject to
the following requirements:
      (1)   Residential parking on residentially zoned lots shall be on the
same lot as the principal building unless otherwise approved by the City
Council;
      (2)   The City Council or city official may direct the removal or
otherwise limit the parking of any large vehicles upon or adjacent to any
residential unit where it is determined htat the parking has a detrimental
effect upon residential use. The large vehicles shall include, but not be
limited to, buses, motor homes, cruisers or large trucks; and
      (3)   No person shall cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residentially zoned lots unless it complies
with the following requirements:
         (a)   For the purposes of this section, a VEHICLE is defined as any
passenger car or truck;
         (b)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside a residentially zoned lot;
         (c)   The City Council may approve an “onsite parking permit” for
exterior parking of more than four vehicles, but not to exceed six vehicles and
for the temporary parking of large vehicles, on a residentially zoned lot
provided it meets the following standards:
            1.   The applicant’s property shall conform to the parking
standards set forth;
            2.   An affidavit shall be filed with the city, stating that all
abutting property owners have been notified and given an opportunity to
respond, in writing, if they have specific concerns regarding the request; and
            3.   The owner shall pay an administrative fee as established by
the City Council.
   (C)   Storage of vehicles. All motorized vehicles, regardless of type,
method of propulsion, or placement on a trailer, and all Class II vehicles and
trailers shall be parked or stored on concrete, asphalt, stone-pavers, or
gravel so long as the gravel is clean of grass and weeds.
   (D)   Violation. When any police officer or city official finds a vehicle to
be in violation of any parking regulation, such officer or city official is
hereby authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of such
vehicle to remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter. For
the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less than one
block in a 24 hour period shall be deemed to have remained stationary. The
owner of the vehicle will have 24 hours to correct the violation. If the
violation remains uncorrected, a police officer or city official is hereby
authorized to impound such vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof to a
convenient garage or other facility or place of safety. Violation of this
section shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 369, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
72.01   Intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Application of traffic ordinances
   
72.04   Restrictions
   
72.05   Stopping and yielding
   
72.06   Persons under 18
   
72.07   Equipment
   
72.08   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.09   Emergency operation permitted
§ 72.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.91,
and M.S. Chapter 169, as these statutes may be amended from time to time and
Minn. Rules parts 6100.5000 through 6100.6000, as these rules may be amended
from time to time, with respect to the operation of snowmobiles. These statutes
and rules are incorporated herein by reference. This section is not intended to
allow what the state statutes and rules prohibit, nor to prohibit what the
state statutes and rules allow.
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile, or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivision, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county-state aid, or
county highway.
§ 72.03 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of
Ch. 70 of this code shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon streets
and highways, except for those relating to required equipment, and except those
which by their nature have no application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, operate or stop a
snowmobile within the limits of the city for general transportation or
recreational purposes, except on designated snowmobile trails or on the most
direct route out of town between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Nothing
in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of snowmobiles for
emergency purposes.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city:
      (1)   So as to tow any person or thing in a public street or highway
except through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile;
provided, that a disabled snowmobile may be towed to a private residence or a
place of business where snowmobiles are repaired without the use of a rigid tow
bar.
      (2)   Within 100 feet of any church, hospital, nursing home, assisted
living facility, cemetery, city park, pedestrian, skating rink or sliding area
where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other persons or
operation.
      (3)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 STOPPING AND YIELDING.
   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without making a
complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles
or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or make a
direct crossing of a city street as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14
years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile
on streets as permitted under this chapter and make a direct crossing of those
streets only if he or she has in his or her immediate possession a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued pursuant to M.S. § 84.872, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provision of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass straight pipe or similar device on a
snowmobile motor.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation.
   (C)   A safety or so called deadman throttle in operating condition.
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
under normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one red light plainly visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars and at the highest practical point on any towed object, so as to
reflect lights at a 90 degree angle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.08 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take the same with him or her.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.09 EMERGENCY OPERATION PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time and
at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorized Golf Carts
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Driving, operating or control of golf carts
   
73.03   Permits
   
73.04   Permit issuance
   
73.05   Fees
   
73.06   Unlawful acts
   
73.07   Designated cart ways
   
73.08   Violations
All Terrain Vehicles
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Driving, operating or control of all terrain vehicles
   
73.22   Permits
   
73.23   Permit issuance
   
73.24   Fees
   
73.25   Unlawful acts
   
73.26   Designated ways
   
73.27   Violation
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the code, words and terms defined in M.S. §
169, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.02 DRIVING, OPERATING OR CONTROL OF GOLF CARTS.
   Motorized golf carts may be driven, operated, or controlled on the roadways
or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city except such
roadways prohibited by resolution of the City Council and only in strict
compliance with this section.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.03 PERMITS.
   No motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city unless the
driver, operator or person in control has in his or her actual physical
possession a valid, current and unrevoked permit of the city for such driving,
operation or control of a motorized golf cart.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.04 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk, or authorized designee, upon
compliance with this section.
   (A)   Individual permit. Application for an individual permit shall include
the full name and address of the applicant; the applicant’s date of birth; the
state of issuance of the applicant’s current driver’s license, the number of
the driver's license; the date of application and applicant’s signature, the
name of applicant’s insurance company; the number of applicant’s insurance
policy; and the date of expiration of insurance coverage for the vehicle. The
applicant shall supply proof of insurance for the vehicle such as a copy of an
insurance certificate or a written statement from an insurance agent confirming
the vehicle has general liability insurance. As a condition to obtaining an
individual permit, the City Clerk may require an applicant to submit a
certificate signed by a physician to the effect that the applicant is able to
safely operate a motorized golf cart on the roadways or shoulders under the
jurisdiction of the city. Copies of insurance and licenses shall be current or
the application will be denied.
   (B)   Revocation of permit. An individual permit may be revoked by the City
Clerk if there is any material misrepresentation made in the permit
application, liability insurance is no longer in effect, or if there is
evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart. An
individual permit shall also be revoked if the permittee no longer has a valid
driver’s license. The City Clerk shall issue a notice of revocation of a permit
in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the permit holder or send the
notice by certified mail to the address on the application. The revocation
shall be in effect immediately after personal service or three days after the
mailing.
   (C)   Permit expiration. Permits shall be issued for the lifetime of the
owner unless revoked for reasons stated in division (B). If the ownership of
the vehicle changes, the new owner shall be required to apply for a license.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.05 FEES.
   An individual applicant shall pay a fee of $25 that may be adjusted from
time to time by Council resolution. If the application is not approved the fee
is not refundable.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.06 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   The occasional use of golf carts is permitted for general transportation,
but in any event no motorized golf cart shall be driven, operated or
controlled:
   (A)   Between sunset and sunrise;
   (B)   Without the use of lights if equipped with the same;
   (C)   In inclement weather, when visibility is reduced or impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light clearly to see a person or vehicle on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet;
   (D)   Without prominent display of a slow-moving vehicle emblem provided in
M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, on the rear of such
vehicle;
   (E)   Without liability insurance coverage;
   (F)   Contrary to any traffic law of the city or the state, except those
which cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts or are not applied,
by reason of M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Contrary to any provisions of this code;
   (H)   By any person under the age of 16;
   (I)   By any person who does not have a valid driver’s license;
   (J)   Unless it is for properly sanctioned parades; and
   (K)   In any area where vehicle traffic is prohibited, blockaded, or
presents hazardous travel.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.07 DESIGNATED CART WAYS.
   Motorized golf carts may be operated on all streets and roads within the
limits of the city except State Highways designated as Highway 75 and Highway
40 and County Highways designated as Highway 19 and Municipal Highway 204.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.08 VIOLATION.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 243, passed 4-17-2001; Am. Ord. 346, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 10-22-2007; Am. Ord. 363, passed 10-12-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in this code, words and terms defined in M.S.
Ch. 169, as they may be amended time to time, shall be applicable to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 73.21 DRIVING, OPERATING OR CONTROL OF ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   All terrain vehicles may be driven, operated or controlled on the roadways
or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city except roadways
prohibited by resolution of the City Council and only in strict compliance with
this section.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 73.22 PERMITS.
   No motorized all terrain vehicle shall be driven, operated or controlled on
the roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city unless
the driver, operator or person in control has in his or her actual physical
possession a valid, current and unrevoked permit of the city for such driving,
operation or control of an all terrain vehicle.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 73.23 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk or authorized designee, upon
compliance with this section.
   (A)   Individual permit. Application for an individual permit shall include
the full name and address of the applicant; the applicant's date of birth; the
state of issuance of the applicant's current driver's license, the number of
the driver's license; the date of application and applicant's signature, the
name of applicant's insurance company; the number of applicant's insurance
policy; and the date of expiration of insurance coverage for the vehicle. As a
condition to obtaining an individual permit, the City Clerk may require an
applicant to submit a certificate signed by a physician to the effect that the
applicant is able to safely operate an all terrain vehicle on the roadways or
shoulders under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Revocation of permit. An individual permit may be revoked by the City
Clerk if there is any material misrepresentation made in the permit
application, liability insurance is no longer in effect, or if there is
evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the all terrain vehicle. An
individual permit shall also be revoked if the permittee no longer has a valid
driver's license. The City Clerk shall issue a notice of revocation of a permit
in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the permit holder or send the
notice by certified mail to the address on the application. The revocation
shall be in effect immediately after personal service or three days after the
mailing.
   (C)   Permit expiration. Permits shall be issued for the lifetime of the
owner unless revoked. If the ownership of the vehicle changes, the new owner
shall be required to apply for a new license.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 366, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.24 FEES.
   An individual applicant shall pay a fee of $25 that may be adjusted from
time to time by Council resolution. If the application is not approved the fee
is not refundable.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 366, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 73.25 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No all terrain vehicle shall be driven, operated or controlled on the
roadways or shoulders of roadways under the jurisdiction of the city, unless
the sole purpose is for non-general transportation or non-recreational
purposes, but in any event no all terrain shall be driven, operated or
controlled:
   (A)   Between sunset and sunrise;
   (B)   Without the use of lights if equipped with the same;
   (C)   In inclement weather, when visibility is reduced or impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light clearly to see a person or vehicle on a roadway at a
distance of 500 feet;
   (D)   Without prominent display of a slow-moving vehicle emblem provided in
M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time, on the rear of the
vehicle;
   (E)   Without a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver, operator or
controller, a view or the roadway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the
rear of the vehicle;
   (F)   Without liability insurance coverage;
   (G)   Contrary to any traffic law of the city or the state, except those
which cannot reasonably be applied to all terrain vehicles or are not applied,
by reason of M.S. § 169.045. Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (H)   Contrary to any provisions of this code;
   (I)   By any person under the age of 16;
   (J)   By any person who does not have a valid driver's license.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.26 DESIGNATED WAYS.
   All terrain vehicles may be operated on all streets and roads within the
limits of the city except state highways designated as Highway 75 and Highway
40 and County Highways designated as Highway 19 and Municipal Highway 204.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006)
§ 73.27 VIOLATION.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 345, passed 6-26-2006)
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
Bicycles
   
74.01   Definition
   
74.02   Traffic laws apply
   
74.03   Manner and number riding
   
74.04   Hitching rides
   
74.05   Where to ride
   
74.06   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
74.07   Carrying articles
   
74.08   Lighting and brake equipment
   
74.09   Sale with reflectors
Roller Blades, Roller Skates, Roller Skis and Skateboards
   
74.25   Definitions
   
74.26   Unlawful acts
   
74.27   Right-of-way
   
74.28   Hours of use
 
   
74.99   Violations
BICYCLES
§ 74.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, and
including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though equipped with two
front or rear wheels.
§ 74.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
§ 74.03 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel, or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, roller blades, skate board, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
themselves to any vehicle upon a street.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand
upon the handlebars.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 LIGHTING AND BRAKE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at night time, shall be equipped with, or
its operator shall carry a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector. No person may, at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, operate a bicycle
unless the bicycle or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that
shall be visible during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective
surfaces shall include reflective materials on each side of each pedal to
indicate their presence from the front or the rear and with a minimum of 20
square inches on each side of the bicycle or its operator of white reflective
material. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section shall
meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 SALE WITH REFLECTORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any new bicycle
unless it is equipped with such reflectors as are prescribed in §
74.08.
Penalty, see §
74.99
ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 74.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. That part of the city so designated by council
resolution.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of roller blades,
roller skates, or a skateboard.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
roller blades, roller skates, or a skateboard.
   ROLLER BLADES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with
wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   ROLLER SKIS. A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding-upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood, or of other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
§ 74.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard under the circumstances set forth hereafter:
      (1)   On any public sidewalk, street, or public parking lot within the
Business District;
      (2)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
      (3)   In any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person operating roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard to attach the same, or the person of the operator,
to any vehicle upon a street.
   (C)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
   (D)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall observe the same rules of the road as required
of bicycles, pursuant to M.S. § 169.222.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.27 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a skateboard
emerging from any alley, driveway, or building, upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon
entering the street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.28 HOURS OF USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis or a skateboard upon a public street, sidewalk, or other roadway from 10:
00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except on private property with express permission of
owner, and except if the roller blades, roller skates, roller skis, skateboard
or operator are equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible during
the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower beams
of head lamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective material shall be a minimum of
40 square inches. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section
shall meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 VIOLATIONS.
   A person apprehended by a peace officer in violation of the provisions of
this chapter does, by his or her use of the public sidewalks, streets, and
public parking lots, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of the
roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard for a period of three
days upon a first offense, a week upon the second offense and 30 days upon a
third or additional offense. Any operator aggrieved by the impoundment of his
or her roller blades, roller skates roller skis or skateboard may petition the
Council for a hearing thereon at the next regular Council meeting following the
impoundment. This provision is in addition to the provisions for fines and
penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
      
95.   CANNABIS IN PUBLIC PLACES
 
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Disposition of abandoned property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.15   Findings and purpose
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
90.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
90.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
90.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
90.21   Right to reclaim
   
90.22   Operator's deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
90.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
90.24   Disposal authority
   
90.25   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in
this section which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended
from time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according
to the procedures of §§
90.15 et seq.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk or his or her designee after two weeks'
published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property
to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Ch. 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference. Sections
90.15 through
90.25 of this code are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time. If any of these provisions are less
stringent that the provisions of M.S. § 168B or Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as it may
be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall take precedence.
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01 as it may be amended
from time to time, that:
         (a) Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
90.18(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and nonpublic.
    IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE.   A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under §
90.24.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
90.18(B), or M.S. § 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time, but is not
a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
§ 90.17 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk or his or her designee or
any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk, or his or her designee or any
peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S. § 169.041 as
it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be impounded after it
has been left unattended in one of the following public or private locations
for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 169.041 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)   On private property:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
§ 90.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
90.23, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle.
§ 90.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
90.21; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
90.19 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the
vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or
sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
90.23.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. The Department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
90.19, after the date of the notice required by §
90.20.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
§ 90.22 OPERATOR'S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   25 days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(A); and
      (2)   55 days storage for a vehicle described in §
90.19(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
90.19 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
§ 90.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
90.21, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant
to §§
90.20 and
90.21.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with §
90.24.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner's agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
   (E)   Storage fees. The city may charge a storage fee for any impounded
vehicle set by §
34.01.
§ 90.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
§ 90.25 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to §
90.24, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA's plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under §
90.23. Except as otherwise provided in §
90.24, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and without a request for bids from all persons duly
licensed by the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. §
116.07, as it may be amended from time to time; nor that does not provide for a
full performance bond; or does not provide for total collection and
transportation of abandoned motor vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a
contract covering solely collection or transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles where the MPCA determines total collection and transportation to be
impracticable and where all other requirements herein have been met and the
unit of government, after proper notice and request for bids, has not received
any bid for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)    The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under §
90.24, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA's plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under §
90.23.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA's plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs and cats
   
91.03   Non-domestic animals
   
91.04   Farm animals
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Kennels
   
91.07   Nuisances
   
91.08   Seizure of animals
   
91.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
91.10   Diseased animals
   
91.11   Dangerous animals
   
91.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
91.13   Basic care
   
91.14   Breeding moratorium
   
91.15   Enforcing officer
   
91.16   Interference with officers
   
91.17   Harboring and keeping of chickens
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, non-
poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and other
similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family Felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family Canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the Felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk in accordance with the regular license requirement if the animal is
unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in
capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as established in
§
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 91.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk’s office upon payment of the
license fee as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for the license and upon forms provided, his or her name
and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept by
him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not been vaccinated
against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a veterinarian
qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, the City Clerk’s office shall issue
to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for each dog licensed. The
tag shall have stamped on it the number corresponding with the number on the
certificate. Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag
are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall
be issued by the City Clerk’s office. A charge shall be made for each duplicate
tag in an amount established in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are non-residents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor
shall this provision apply to “seeing eye” dogs properly trained to assist
blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, shall first be used to defray any
costs incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including, but not
restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. In case the owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice
at the city office that if the dog or other animal is not claimed within the
time specified in division (C) of this section, it will be sold or otherwise
disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs and
cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
91.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
91.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, and valid certificate of
vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the animal to the
University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Clerk.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of 3 or more animals on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel;” except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of 3 months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.” Litters of pups shall be limited to one per dog.
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of 3 or more animals on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of 3 or more animals, but no more than 2 dogs, on the premises is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel
within the city.
(Am. Ord. —, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
91.05.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
91.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
91.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
91.01(E);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
dog and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or
officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement
under §
91.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
91.05(C).
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner’s home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand or the Animal
Control Officer may order the animal destroyed.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
91.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed
six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of
age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to time, and
shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. § 347.151, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. The Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
91.12(B), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
91.12(B), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
91.11(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
91.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a
hearing as defined in §
91.11(F). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
91.12(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
91.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 91.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
§ 91.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 91.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 91.16 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 HARBORING AND KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
      CHICKEN. A fowl of the genus Gallus and species Gallus domesticus that is
commonly referred to as domesticated fowl.
      CHICKEN COOP. Any structure used for the housing of chickens.
      CHICKEN RUN. A fenced outdoor area for the keeping and exercising of
chickens.
      ROOSTER. A male chicken.
   (B)   Chicken permit required. It is unlawful for any person to keep,
harbor, maintain, possess, or otherwise control any chicken within the city,
unless a permit is issued by the city under this division on a parcel of record
zoned for single family detached dwelling.
   (C)   Permit application and permit fees. An application for a permit
hereunder shall be filed with the city clerk upon an application form furnished
by the city. The permit fee, which shall be paid and filed with the permit
application, shall be in an amount established by City Council resolution. A
permit issued hereunder shall be for duration of one year from its date of
issuance. An application for permit renewal shall be filed 60 days prior to the
expiration of the current permit. The permit application shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The full name and address of the following persons:
         (a)   The applicant signed thereto;
         (b)   The owner(s) of the premises on which chickens are sought to be
kept and for which the permit would apply;
      (2)   The street address of the premises on which chickens are sought to
be kept;
      (3)   The number of chickens to be kept on the premises;
      (4)   A detailed sketch plan of the premises on which chickens are sought
to be kept, including the location, the dimensions and design of the coop and
run, establishing compliance with the chicken coop and run specifications
provided in this division;
      (5)   A statement certifying whether the property’s homeowners’
association rules, if any, prohibit the keeping of chickens on the property for
which the application is sought;
      (6)   If the applicant is not the fee owner of the premises on which the
chickens are sought to be kept and for which the permit would apply, the
application shall be signed by all fee owners of the premises; and
      (7)   Any other and further information as the city deems necessary.
   (D)   Granting or denying issuance of permit. The City Clerk may grant an
initial or renewal permit under this division; however, a permit may not be
issued or renewed unless the application filed demonstrates compliance with the
requirements of this division. A permit shall not be issued or renewed until
the animal control officer inspects and approves the premises, including the
chicken coop and run, at which chickens are sought to be kept. The City Clerk
shall deny a permit hereunder for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains false, fraudulent or
deceptive statements.
      (2)   The applicant does not or has not complied with one or more of the
provisions of this section.
      (3)   The premises for which the permit is sought, including, but not
limited to, the proposed or existing chicken coop or run, is not in compliance
with any provisions of this subdivision, other city code provisions or state
laws relating to zoning, health, fire, building or safety.
      (4)   The proposed chicken coop would result in a violation of or be
inconsistent with the accessory structure zoning regulations of the city.
      (5)   The applicant or owner of the premises where the chickens are to be
kept has been convicted of a violation under this section.
      (6)   The applicant is not the owner of the chickens proposed to be kept
on the premises.
      (7)   The applicant is not the occupant of the premises for which the
permit is sought to be issued.
   (E)   Conditions of permit. A permit granted under this division shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Ownership. The owner of the chickens must occupy the premises for
which the permit is issued.
      (2)   Inspection. The premises, including the coop and run thereon, for
which a permit is issued shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by
the animal control officer or any other city official to determine compliance
with this division, other city code provisions and state laws relating to
zoning, health, fire, building or safety.
      (3)   Transferability of permit. A permit issued hereunder shall be
nontransferable. It is unlawful to keep, harbor, maintain, possess, or
otherwise control any chickens on property that is not identified on the
permit.
      (4)   Specifications for feeding chickens. All feed for the chickens
shall be stored in water-tight and vermin-proof containers.
      (5)   Specifications of chicken coop and run. A chicken coop and run are
required. The construction and location of the chicken coop and run shall be in
compliance with the applicable building and zoning regulations of the city and
the following requirements:
         (a)   The interior floor space of the chicken coop shall be a minimum
size of two square feet for each chicken authorized under the permit.
         (b)   The exterior finish materials of the chicken coop shall be:
            1.   Weather-resistant, protective covering material, decay-
resistant wood, or if exterior finish wood is not decay resistant, then the
wood finish shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint or
protective covering (e.g., siding, fascia wrap); and
            2.   In accordance with the accessory structure regulations set
forth in the zoning regulations of the city.
         (c)   The construction of and materials used for the chicken coop and
run must be adequate to prevent access by rodents.
         (d)   The chicken run shall be attached to the chicken coop. The
chicken coop and run shall be deemed as a single structure and subject to the
accessory structure regulations set forth in the zoning regulations of the city
ordinances.
         (e)   The floor area of the chicken run shall be a minimum size of
five square feet for each chicken authorized under the permit.
         (f)   The chicken run shall be fully enclosed by fencing or other
similar material.
         (g)   No chicken coop or run, or any portion thereof, shall be within
25 feet of the outer perimeter of any inhabitable building.
         (h)   The chicken coop and run shall be setback at least ten feet from
the rear lot line and at least five feet from the side lot lines. On properties
zoned estate, the coop and run shall be setback at least ten feet from the rear
and side lot lines. The chicken coop and run, or any portion thereof, shall not
be
located in the front yard, which is defined as any area located between the
front lot line and the front setback line or front building line, whichever is
further from the front lot line, running from side lot line to side lot line.
         (i)   The chicken coop and run shall be kept in good repair as to be
in compliance with the property maintenance regulations elsewhere in this code.
         (j)   The chicken coop and run shall be kept in a sanitary and odor-
free condition, including the regular and frequent removal and proper disposal
of any accumulated chicken feces or waste, dirt or filth that could create a
safety or health hazard.
         (k)   The chicken coop and run shall be immediately removed if a
permit granted under this division expires or is revoked.
      (6)   Regulations. The keeping, harboring, maintaining, or possessing of
any chicken under a permit issued pursuant to this division shall be in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   No more than five chicken shall be kept or harbored on the
premises to which the permit applies.
         (b)   Roosters are prohibited.
         (c)   Slaughtering of chickens on any property zoned for residential
use is prohibited.
         (d)   No chickens shall be kept, maintained, housed or permitted
inside any residential dwelling or any garage.
         (e)   No chickens shall be permitted to run at large. The term RUN AT
LARGE is defined as any chicken freely roaming in any area not on the premises
to which the permit applies. The chicken shall be deemed to be permitted to run
at large when the premises to which the permit applies is not securely enclosed
by a proper boundary fence as to prevent a chicken from leaving the premises.
         (f)   If the chickens are not contained at all times to the coop and
run and allowed to freely roam within the yard, the property shall be enclosed
by a fence in accordance with the fence regulations set forth in the zoning
regulations of this code and which by material and design prevents a chicken
from leaving the premises.
         (g)   Chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
public nuisance. Any violation of the provisions of this division shall be
deemed a public nuisance.
         (h)   No chicken eggs shall be sold or offered for sale; all chicken
eggs shall be for personal use or consumption.
      (7)   Revocation of permit. A violation of any provision of this division
or any provisions of the permit issued hereunder shall constitute grounds for
revocation of a permit.
(Ord. 373, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Assessable current services
   
92.02   Tree diseases
   
92.03   Shade tree program
Reduction or Elimination of Blight
   
92.15   Purpose
   
92.16   Causes of blight or blighting factors
   
92.17   Exterior property areas; vacant properties
   
92.18   Exterior of structures
   
92.19   Interior areas of structures, including residential dwellings
   
92.20   Vacated structures and vacant properties
   
92.21   Fuel wood storage
   
92.22   Enforcement Officer
   
92.23   Inspection of structures, vacant properties
   
92.24   Compliance order (citation)
   
92.25   Variance and appeals
   
92.26   Violations
Weeds
   
92.40   Short title
   
92.41   Jurisdiction
   
92.42   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.43   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.44   Filing complaint
   
92.45   Notice of violations
   
92.46   Appeals
   
92.47   Abatement by city
   
92.48   Liability
Open Burning
   
92.60   Definitions
   
92.61   Prohibited materials
   
92.62   Open burning prohibited
   
92.63   Rules and laws adopted by reference
Burning of Exterior Solid Fuels
   
92.70   Purpose
   
92.71   Definitions
   
92.72   Applicability
   
92.73   Requirements
   
92.74   Interior heating devices
   
92.75   Public nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under
Chapter 52 of this code, the City Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost
of the installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk shall report the facts to the
City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done by
contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk, or other designated official, shall prepare a bill
and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. Each year, on or before a date set by ordinance or
resolution by Council, the City Clerk shall list the total unpaid charges for
each type of current service and charges under this section against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The
City Council may then spread the charges against property benefitted as a
special assessment under the authority of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended
from time to time and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than seven days prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section for all work done for which assessments are
to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. Each year, on or before on or before a date set by
ordinance or resolution by Council, the City Clerk shall list the total unpaid
charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel to which they
are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a special
assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to
time and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with the current taxes.
   (E)   Reimbursement.  
      (1)   Boulevard tree. The city will pay 100% of the cost of removal to
the contractor.
      (2)   Private yard tree. The property owner will pay 100% of the cost of
removal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 SHADE TREE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
      STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
ways within the city.
      TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three
inches in diameter within the trees crown to such a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (B)   Street trees species to be planted. No species other than those listed
may be planted as street trees without written permission of the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent. Each year the list shall be subject to review from
past experience and information from local nurseries or the University of
Minnesota.
Street/Park Trees
Street/Park Trees
Small
   Canadian Red Cherry
   Prairiefire
   Amur Maple Tree Form
   Camelot
   Ember Maple
   Red Splendor
   Crabapple
   Red Japanese Tree Lilac
   Spring Snow
   Ivory Silk
   Thunderchild
   Flowering Crab
Medium
   Small Leaf Linden
   Red Maple
   Green Ash Seedless Only
   Honey Locust
   Skyline Locust
   Newport Ash
   Sunburst Honey Locust
   Summit Ash
   Hackberry
Mountain Ash
   Redmond Linden
   White Ash
   Norway Maple
   Autumn Blaze
   Autumn Purple
   Bergerson
   Marshall Seedless
   Patmore
   Fall Gold Ash
   Prairie Spire
   Thornless Honeylocust
   Imperial
   Northern Acclaim
   Iron Wood
   American Linden
   Pyramidal American
   European/Little Leaf Linden
   Greenspire
   Harvest Gold
   Hybrid Elm
   Discovery Elm
   Cathedral Elm
   Hybrid Maple
   Oak
   Pin Oak
Red Oak
   Swamp White Oak
   Burr Oak
   Colummar
   Crimson King
   Crimson Sentry
   Deborah
   Emeral Lustre
   Emerald Queen
   Royal Red
   Schwedler
   Superform
   Varigated   
   Princeton Gold Maple
   Autumn Spire
   Northfire
   Northwood
   Red Sunset
   Ruby Frost
   Burgundy Belle
   Sugar Maple Hard
   Green Nountain
   Legacy
   Majesty
   Fall Festival
 
Large
   Silver Maple
   Emerald Lustre Maple
   Sugar Maple
 
   (C)   Height. No tree planted shall be less than six feet in height
   (D)   Spacing. No trees shall be planted closer together than the following:
small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except
in special planting design or approved by the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent in consultation with a local nursery.
   (E)   Distance curb and sidewalk. No tree shall be planted closer to any
curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, 2 feet; medium trees, 3 feet;
and large trees, 4 feet.
   (F)    Distance from street corners and fire hydrants. No street trees shall
be planted closer than 35 feet or any street corner measured from the point of
the nearest interscecting curbs or curblines. No street trees shall be planted
closer than 10 feet of any fire hydrant.
   (G)   Utilities. No other trees other than those listed as small trees may
be planted under overhead utility wires, or over or within 3 lateral feet of
any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or other utility.
   (H)   Public tree care. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, easements, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to insure public safety or to enhance the symmetry and beauty of the
public grounds. The city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree
or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is unjurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines,
storm sewers, other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect, or other pest or disease. This does not prohibit the planting
of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and
location of the trees is in accordance with this section.
   (I)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful for any person to top any street
tree, park tree, or other tree on public property without authorization from
the City Manager or Public Works/Utilities Superintendent. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
exempted from this section at the determination of the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent or City Manager.
   (J)   Pruning; corner clearance. Every owner of any tree over-hanging any
street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that they
will not obstruct the view of any street interesection of eight feet above the
surface of the street or sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased
or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menance to
public safety. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on
private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the
street from a street light or impairs the visibility of any traffic light or
sign.
   (K)   Duty or property owners. It shall be the duty of every property owner
whose property abuts on a public street to notify the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent when any tree has branches less than eight feet above the
surface of any sidewalk or street.
   (L)   Penalty. Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor.
REDUCTION OR ELIMINATION OF BLIGHT
§ 92.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a uniform and equitable
method of eliminating blight in the city.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.16 CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   It is determined that the uses, structures, activities, causes of blight or
blighting factors described herein, if allowed to exist, will tend to result in
blighted and undesirable neighborhoods or commercial business sites so as to be
harmed to the public health, safety and welfare. The purpose of this subchapter
is to protect the character and stability of the properties within the city and
to avoid blight and blighted conditions. The “fee title” owner, occupant or
agent shall comply with the regulation contained herein.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.17 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS; VACANT PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas and vacant areas shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, safe and free from any hazard or
dangerous condition, and free from any accumulation of refuse or garbage.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and pests. All properties shall be free from noxious
weeds and pests. All exterior property areas and vacant areas shall be kept
free from species of weeds or plants growth, rodents, vermin, or other pests,
which are noxious or detrimental to the public health.
   (C)   Junk automobiles. In any areas not zoned for junk yards or salvage
yards, the storage of junk vehicles (automobiles) is prohibited. For the
purpose of this subchapter, the term JUNK AUTOMOBILES shall include any motor
vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or former motor vehicles, stored in the open,
which is not currently licensed for use upon the highways of the state; and is
either:
      (1)   Unusable or inoperable because of lack of, or defects in, component
parts; or
      (2)   Unusable or inoperable because of damage from collision,
deterioration, or having been cannibalized; or
      (3)   Beyond repair and therefore not intended for future use as a motor
vehicle; or
      (4)   Being retained on the property for possible use of salvageable
parts. This regulation is in addition to any zoning regulations.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.18 EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The exterior of all structures and accessory structures, including
detached garages, shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair.
   (B)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotting
boards or timbers, falling or loose stucco or substantial amounts of peeling
paint.
   (C)   All doors and windows shall be maintained in good repair, fit
reasonably well within their frames, and be free of open breaks or holes.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.19 INTERIOR AREAS OF STRUCTURES, INCLUDING RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained in clean and
sanitary conditions, free of accumulations of garbage or refuse.
   (B)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained free from
infestation of noxious insects, rodents, and other pests.
   (C)   All plumbing systems shall be properly installed, connected, and
maintained in good working order and must be kept free from obstructions,
leaks, and defects. Plumbing systems must conform to the requirements for
public water and sanitary sewer systems.
   (D)   The storage of excessive or unreasonable amounts of hazardous
flammable liquids shall be prohibited in areas not zoned for such use.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.20 VACATED STRUCTURES AND VACANT PROPERTIES.
   (A)   The “fee title” owner of any dwelling which is unfit for human
habitation, as determined by the Enforcement Officer in good faith, and the
owner of any structure which has been vacant for a period of 60 days or more,
shall make same safe and secure so that it is not hazardous to the health,
safety, and welfare of the public, and does not constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any such structure open at the doors and windows, if unguarded, shall
be deemed to be a hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, and
a public nuisance within the meaning of this subchapter. The owner of vacant
lands shall make said lands safe and secure by barricading or fencing the
property or the like, or by placing the lands safe and secure by barricading or
fencing the property or the like, or by placing the lands in their natural
unimproved condition and removing all dangerous conditions. Upon failure of the
owner to comply, the city may have the structure or vacant property and lands
made safe and secure or remove the dangerous conditions, and assess the cost to
the “fee title” owner by certifying the cost to the County Auditor as a special
assessment against the specific offending property.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.21 FUEL WOOD STORAGE.
   (A)   Outside fuel wood shall not be stored in the front yard. In addition,
on a corner lot, outside fuel wood shall not be stored on the side yard and
back yard abutting a street or avenue unless the fuel wood is set back from the
street or avenue the distance that the house or garage is set back from the
street.
   (B)   Fuel wood shall not encroach upon rights-of-way, other land owners
property or sidewalks.
   (C)   Outside fuel wood piles shall not exceed 6 feet in height due to
safety.
   (D)   Outside fuel wood piles shall be neat in appearance, free from
unreasonable infestation of rodents or other pests, and shall be securely piled
in a safe manner so as to prevent, falling over.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.22 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Law Enforcement/Police Department is appointed as the
Enforcement Officer in cooperation with the City Attorney and it is the
Enforcement Officer’s duty to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The
designated enforcement officers of the city who have the duty to enforce an
ordinance or statute may, pursuant to this section, issue citations whenever
the officer has probable cause to believe the person cited has committed a
misdemeanor which the officer has the duty to enforce and issue a notice to
appear and release the person on his or her written promise to appear in court.
The officer shall deliver executed citations or notices to the City Attorney
for filing with the court after the City Attorney has reviewed for legal
sufficiency. A copy of the notice will also be placed on file in the City
Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The Police Department for the city is designated the citation
authority by the City Council.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.23 INSPECTION OF STRUCTURES, VACANT PROPERTIES.
   The Enforcement Officer shall be authorized to make or cause to be made
inspections to determine the condition of structures and premises and vacant
properties and lands in order to safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of
the public. The Enforcement Officer shall, with the permission of the “fee
title” owner, occupant, operator or agent be authorized to inspect any vacant
areas and the exterior areas of any premises and the interior areas of
structures at any reasonable time for the purpose of performing the duties
under this subchapter. If the owner, operator, or person in possession of the
structure shall refuse to consent to the inspection, and there is probable
cause to believe that a violation exists on the premise, a search warrant may
be obtained.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.24 COMPLIANCE ORDER (CITATION).
   (A)   Whenever the Enforcement Officer determines that any structure,
premises or lands fail to meet the provisions of this subchapter, the
Enforcement Officer may issue a compliance order setting forth the violations
of the ordinance and ordering the “fee title” owner, occupant, operator, or
agent to correct the violations.
   (B)   Order. The compliance order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describe the location (street address or legal address) and nature
of the violations of this subchapter;
      (3)   Establish a time for the correction of the violation, which shall
be at least 5 days;
      (4)   Notify of ability to appeal to the City Council;
      (5)   Be served upon the violator, the “fee title” owner, occupant,
operator or agent by U.S. Mail to the address identified on the property tax
statement and the address of the property if different.
   (C)   Abatement. Upon the city’s written notice, the property owner shall
complete any work as required under this chapter or elsewhere in this section
or otherwise abate any declared public nuisance from the owner’s property
within the time period set forth in the notice. If the property owner fails to
complete the work or otherwise abate the public nuisance, the city may perform
the work which is the property owner’s primary responsibility hereunder or
otherwise abate the public nuisance on the owner’s property.
   (D)   Costs. The owner of property on which the work or service has been
performed by the city as set forth herein shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. The city shall prepare and mail an invoice for the costs
of the service to the owner, and the charges shall be due and payable to the
city within 30 days of the date of invoice. Any charges remaining unpaid after
30 days shall be delinquent. Delinquent charges for a service shall be subject
to a late penalty fee as determined by Council resolution.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004; Ord. 386, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 92.25 VARIANCE AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals of interpretation or requests for a variance shall be made in
writing to the City Council and shall be filed with the City Clerk within 10
days after receipt of the compliance order. The City Council in its discretion
may elect to hear appeals or requests for variances when made.
   (B)   Variances made more than 10 days after the receipt of the compliance
order may be heard by the City Council, but the action by the City Council is
completely discretionary and shall not delay or prevent criminal prosecution or
other enforcement actions, unless the City Council grants the appeal or grants
the variance prior to the completion of the enforcement activities.
   (C)   The City Council may grant variances in instances where strict
enforcement of this subchapter would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual party under consideration, when it is
demonstrated that such an action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent
of the ordinance.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
§ 92.26 VIOLATION.
   Violations of any provision of this subchapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute an
offense after a reasonable time has been allowed to affect compliance.
(Ord. 317, passed 8-23-2004)
WEEDS
§ 92.40 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance.”
§ 92.41 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 92.42 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding six inches.
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants.
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Am. Ord. 362, passed 6-22-2009)
§ 92.43 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 6 inches in height.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.44 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk.
§ 92.45 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds, grasses, and
rank vegetation in violation of this subchapter, the Public Works/Utilities
Superintendent shall make an inspection regarding the property. If the property
is found to be in violation of this subchapter, the property owner or the
person occupying the property shall be notified in writing by the Public Works/
Utilities Superintendent of the violation.
   (B)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with the
City Clerk.
§ 92.46 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council Members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 92.47 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to abate the violation
within five regular business days of the date of the notice and has not filed
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the city may
employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform with this subchapter by all lawful means. The property owners
shall be responsible for reimbursing the city for the full cost of abatement by
the outside contractor or city employees at a rate established in §
34.01.
(Am. Ord. 362, passed 6-22-2009)
§ 92.48 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as “open burning.”
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
“recreation fire site” as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 92.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.62 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property for any
purposes except recreational as defined in §
92.60.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.63 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
BURNING OF EXTERIOR SOLID FUELS
§ 92.70 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is generally recognized that the types of fuel used, and the scale
and duration of burning by exterior solid fuel heating devices creates noxious
and hazardous smoke, soot, fumes, odors and air pollution, can be detrimental
to citizens’ health, and can deprive neighboring properties of the enjoyment
and full use of their property or premises.
   (B)   Therefore, with the adoption of this subchapter, it is the intention
of the city to prohibit the use of exterior solid fuel heating devices in
limits of Madison for the purpose of securing and promoting public health,
safety, and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.71 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall apply to this subchapter as defined unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, business, or
organization.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Whoever by his act or failure to perform a legal duty
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, health, morals comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right of way, or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
section to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically
provided.
   SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. An external device designed for solid fuel
combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of the building, and
includes solid fuel-fired stoves, fireplaces, solid fuel-fired cooking stoves,
and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which burn solid fuel. SOLID FUEL-
FIRED HEATING DEVICES do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.72 APPLICABILITY.
   This section applies to all outdoor solid fuel heating devices within the
city.
   (A)   This section does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane, or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances;
   (B)   This section does not apply to burning for the purpose of generating
heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace, or other heating device inside a building
used for human or animal habitation;
   (C)   This section does not apply for the use of propane, acetylene, natural
gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating, construction or
maintenance activities; and
   (D)   This section does not apply to campfires; a small outdoor fire
intended for recreation or cooking.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.73 REQUIREMENTS.
   No external solid fuel-fired heating devices designed and intended and/or
used, for the purpose of heating a principal or accessory structure are allowed
to be installed or operated within the city.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.74 INTERIOR HEATING DEVICES.
   All devices used for heating located in the interior of a principal or
accessory structure shall be operated in a manner consistent with its intended
use and in accordance with the owner’s manual and/or the manufacturer’s
instructions and/or recommendations. No solid fuel heating devices as defined
in §
92.71 shall be located and operated in the interior of a principal or accessory
structure.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.75 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Public Nuisances as defined in §
92.71 resulting from the burning of any material is prohibited and is
punishable by §
92.99.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate
publishable offense.
(Ord. 367, passed 11-23-2009)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.02   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.03   Materials on street or sidewalk
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
93.20   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.21   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
93.22   Permit requirement
   
93.23   Permit applications
   
93.24   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.25   Permit fees
   
93.26   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.27   Supplementary applications
   
93.28   Denial of permit
   
93.29   Installation requirements
   
93.30   Inspection
   
93.31   Work done without a permit
   
93.32   Supplementary notification
   
93.33   Revocation of permits
   
93.34   Mapping data; information required
   
93.35   Location of facilities
   
93.36   Damage to other facilities
   
93.37   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.38   Indemnification and liability
   
93.39   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
93.40   Appeal
   
93.41   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see §
92.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 subps. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 93.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may excavate any right- of-way without first having obtained the appropriate
permit from the city.
      (1)   Street digging permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of- way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division (B) of this
section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.23 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b) Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e) Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by the
Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, estimated restoration costs and
other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, if applicable.
§ 93.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 93.25 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, in an amount sufficient to recover
the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, and shall be in an amount
sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time, that were paid for a permit that
the Director has revoked for a breach as stated in §
93.33 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rule part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Director shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent
of the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application
or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Director, shall correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by §
34.01, as may be amended from time to time. However, the right-of-way user
shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not include
the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 93.27 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 93.28 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 93.29 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to § 
93.33.
§ 93.31 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.  
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 93.32 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 93.33 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.30.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 93.34 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 93.35 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Director
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of
the public interest, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 93.36 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way
which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant
caused during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 93.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.38 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.39 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Director.
§ 93.40 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 93.41 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 94: DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
Section
   
94.01   Purpose and intent
   
94.02   Interpretation and application
   
94.03   Fees
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Law enforcement notice to other authorities
   
94.06   Declaration of property as a public health nuisance
   
94.07   Notice of public health nuisance to concerned parties
   
94.08   Property owner’s responsibility to act
   
94.09   Property owner’s responsibility for costs
   
94.10   Recovery of public costs
   
94.11   Authority to modify or remove declaration of public health nuisance
 
   
94.98   Violation
§ 94.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce public exposure to health risks
where law enforcement officers have determined that hazardous chemicals from a
suspected clandestine drug lab site or associated dumpsite may exist. The City
Council finds that such sites may contain suspected chemicals and residues that
place people, particularly children or adults of child bearing age, at risk
when exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site, now and in the future.
§ 94.02 INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be construed to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive than comparable provisions imposed by any other
law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are
more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
prevail.
   (C)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or
subpart of this chapter to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
provision declared invalid.
§ 94.03 FEES.
   Fees for the administration of this chapter may be established and amended
periodically by resolution of the City Council.
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CHEMICAL DUMPSITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab have been located.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to manufacture
controlled substances.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with the operation of an unlawful
clandestine drug lab exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings,
accessory buildings, accessory structures, a chemical dumpsite or any land.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A drug, substance or immediate precursor in Schedules
I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as it may be amended from time to time. The term
shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors
or tobacco.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTES. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab. The
wastes shall be treated, stored, transported or disposed of in a manner
consistent with Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Pollution Control,
and Lac qui Parle County Health Department rules and regulations.
   MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include the
production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical,
physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, filling, or by other process, of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, in whole or in part, the
land, buildings or structures associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dumpsite.
   PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE. All dwellings, accessory structures and buildings or
adjacent property associated with a clandestine drug lab site are potentially
unsafe due to health hazards and are considered a public health nuisance.
§ 94.05 LAW ENFORCEMENT NOTICE TO OTHER AUTHORITIES.
   Law enforcement authorities that identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site that places neighbors, visiting
public, or present and future occupants of the dwelling at risk for exposure to
harmful contaminants and other associated conditions must promptly notify the
appropriate municipal, child protection, and public health authorities of the
property location, property owner, if known, and conditions found.
§ 94.06 DECLARATION OF PROPERTY AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   If law enforcement determines the existence of a clandestine drug lab site
or chemical dumpsite, the property shall be declared a public health nuisance.
§ 94.07 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE TO CONCERNED PARTIES.
   (A)   Upon notification by law enforcement authorities, the City Police
Department shall promptly issue a declaration of public health notice for the
affected property and post a copy of the declaration at the probable entrance
to the dwelling or property.
   (B)   The City Police Department, in cooperation with the City Attorney,
shall also notify the owner of the property by mail and notify the following
parties:
      (1)   Occupants of the property;
      (2)   Neighbors at probable risk;
      (3)   The City Police Department; and
      (4)   Other state and local authorities, such as MPCA and MDH, that are
known to have public and environmental protection responsibilities that are
applicable to the situation.
§ 94.08 PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   The Police Department shall also issue an order to abate the public health
nuisance, including the following:
   (A)   Immediately vacate those portions of the property, including building
or structure interiors, that may place the occupants or visitors at risk;
   (B)   Promptly contract with appropriate environmental testing and cleaning
firms to conduct an on-site assessment, complete clean-up and remediation
testing and follow-up testing, and determine that the property risks are
sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy of the dwelling. The
property owner shall notify the city of actions taken and reach an agreement
with the city on the clean-up schedule. The city shall consider practical
limitations and the availability of contractors in approving the schedule for
clean-up;
   (C)   Provide written documentation of the clean-up process, including a
signed, written statement that the property is safe for human occupancy and
that the clean-up was conducted in accordance with Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines.
§ 94.09 PROPERTY OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The property owner shall be responsible for all costs of vacation or
clean-up of the site, including contractor’s fees and public costs for services
that were performed in association with a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dump site clean-up.
   (B)   Public costs may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (4)   Laboratory fees;
      (5)   Clean-up services;
      (6)   Administrative fees; and
      (7)   Other associated costs.
§ 94.10 RECOVERY OF PUBLIC COSTS.
   (A)   If, after service of notice of the declaration of public health
nuisance, the property owner fails to arrange appropriate assessment and clean-
up, the City Police Department is authorized to proceed in a prompt manner to
initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
   (B)   If the city is unable to locate the property owner within 10 days of
the declaration of public health nuisance, the city is authorized to proceed in
a prompt manner to initiate the on-site assessment and clean-up.
   (C)   The city may abate the nuisance by removing the hazardous structure or
building, or otherwise, according to M.S. Ch. 463, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all costs plus an
additional 25% of the costs for administration. The city may recover costs by
civil action against the person or persons who own the property or by assessing
the costs as a special assessment against the property in the manner as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 94.11 AUTHORITY TO MODIFY OR REMOVE DECLARATION OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Building Official is authorized to modify the declaration
conditions or remove the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (B)   The modifications or removal of the declaration shall only occur after
documentation from a qualified environmental or cleaning firm stating that the
health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling
occupants, are sufficiently abated or corrected to allow safe occupancy of the
dwelling.
§ 94.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalties set forth
in M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
CHAPTER 95: CANNABIS IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose and intent
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted by the City of Madison for the purpose of
protecting public health and safety by regulating/prohibiting the use of
cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within the City of Madison.
   (B)   Minnesota Session Law 2023, Ch. 63, effective in relevant part August
1, 2023, establishes that the adult use, possession and personal growing of
cannabis is legal subject to the requirements and restrictions of Minnesota
Statutes.
   (C)   Minnesota Statute § 342.0263 subd. 5 authorizes the adoption of a
local ordinance establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of
cannabis.
   (D)   The City of Madison intends to be proactive in protecting public
health and safety by enacting a chapter that will mitigate threats presented to
the public and public health by the public use of cannabis.
   (E)   The City of Madison (hereinafter “the city”) recognizes the risks that
unintended access and use of cannabis products and exposure to cannabis and its
effects present to the health, welfare, and safety of members of the public and
in particular the youth of the city.
(Ord. 387, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a
product approved by the office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include
medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis concentrate;
      (2)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
      (3)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid;
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabinol, 25 milligrams of
cannabinol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, theaters, restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common
areas in buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places
of public accommodation.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, refreshment, entertainment,
recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
   EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A “public
place” or “place of public accommodation” does not include the following:
      (1)   A private residence, including the individuals curtilage or yard.
      (2)   A private property, not generally accessible by the public, unless
the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
      (3)   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. SMOKING includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
(Ord. 387, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or event licensed
to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult-use
cannabis products. See M.S. §§ 342.09, subd. 1(2) and 342.09, subd. 1(7)(iii)
and § 152.0263, subd. 5.
   (B)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
(Ord. 387, passed 8-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Related state law, see M.S. § 342.09, subd. 1(7)(b)(9).
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. A violation of this chapter shall be a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $300. Nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the United States, the State of Minnesota, or the city from
investigating or prosecuting any other activity that is a crime under any other
federal or state statute or city ordinance.
   (B)   An alleged violation or violation of this chapter may be investigated
by a peace officer as defined in M.S. § 626.84, subd. 1. Any alleged violation
or violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted by the office of the City
Attorney.
(Ord. 387, passed 8-14-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING SERVICES
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND ADULT USES
      
116.   GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
      
117.   REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain businesses
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by Title XI of this code or by any other ordinance
of the city or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining
a license from the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk or other authorized official in
writing upon forms to be furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The applicant's full name, address, and telephone number, and the
full name of each officer, partner or business associate, if applicable;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and principal place of business;
      (3)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (4)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (5)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Any change in the information required by division (A) of this section
must be reported to the City Clerk or other authorized official within 14 days
of that change.
   (C)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing on the basis of the original application, unless otherwise provided.
However, if a request for renewal is not submitted to the City Clerk or other
authorized official within 21 days after the date of expiration for the
preceding license, the applicant must fill out an original application.
   (D)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee
if approval by another officer or department is not required, the City Clerk,
shall deposit the fee in the general fund of the city and issue to the
applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City Clerk.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein specified
and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31 of the year
issued. However, at any time after December 1, licenses may be issued for the
next calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full annual fee will be
required of licensees irrespective of the date of issuance of the license.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the premises the license certificate. Other licensees
shall carry their licenses at all times, and whenever requested by any officer
or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk or City
Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the
time of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation shall become effective upon notice served
upon the licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons
for the suspension or revocation and a statement concerning the right to appeal
the decision. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee's application.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license by the City Clerk, or if his
or her license has been suspended or revoked by the City Clerk, the applicant
or licensee shall within ten business days have the right to appeal to the City
Council from the denial, suspension or revocation. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk or other authorized official the Mayor
shall call a special meeting of the City Council for the purpose of holding the
hearing unless a regular meeting of the City Council will occur within the 21-
day period, and who shall fix the time and place for a hearing which shall be
held not later than 21 days thereafter. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk.
   Unless a regular meeting of the City Council at which the appeal can be
heard is scheduled within 21 days after receiving the notice of appeal, the
Mayor shall schedule a special meeting of the City Council for the hearing
within the 21-day period. Three members of the City Council shall constitute a
quorum to hear the appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or
by counsel. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the City Council
present at the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be
issued or fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the suspension or
revocation shall become final.
CHAPTER 111: COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Billiards and pool
   
111.02   Amusement devices
§ 111.01 BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or a combination of both, shall
pay an annual license fee in an amount established in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges and which may be listed in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The term “coin-operated mechanical amusement device” means any
machine, which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be
operated by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement,
whether or not registering a score. It includes such devices as marble
machines, pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, mechanical
rides intended for use by children, such as merry-go-rounds, horses, ferris
wheels, and the like; carnival, fair, and/or festival rides, and all similar
games, operations or transactions under whatever name they may be indicated.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not display for public
use any coin-operated mechanical amusement device without obtaining a license
for it and paying the fee established by City Council. Applications for a
license must be made to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The license or licenses obtained must be posted permanently and
conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises where the machine
is to be operated.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
122.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
112.50   Existing municipal stores continued
   
112.51   Location
   
112.52   Operation
   
112.53   Proof of financial responsibility
   
112.54   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   CLUB. An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state for
civic, fraternal, social, or business purposes, for intellectual improvement,
or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans’
organization, which:
      (1)   Has more than 30 members; and
      (2)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more than
one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members;
      (3)   Is directed by a Board of Directors, executive committee, or other
similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose. No
member, officer, agent, or employee shall receive any profit from the
distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club, or their guests,
beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the governing
body.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises and served at tables to the general public. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment,” “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
112.99(B).
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot, or in any public place other
than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this chapter, in a
municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where the consumption
and display of liquor is lawfully permitted unless otherwise permitted by
Council, such as with a special permit, unless otherwise permitted by the
Council. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prhibit the consumption
of 3.2% malt liquor in a public park purchased from an on-site concession stand
with a valid license and lease from the city.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   The city may issue as many licenses as permitted by the state law. The
Council shall not be required to issue the full number of licenses that it has
available.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according the their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city is authorized to issue the following licenses and
permits, up to the number specified in §
112.20.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   On sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports event, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city,
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from
time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (E)   Sunday on sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license.
   (G)   Temporary on sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than three consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (H)   On sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed one half of the license fee charged for an on sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2%(strong beer) without an additional license. On
Sundays, the said establishments may sell wine and strong beer for consumption
on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food between the hours of 12
noon Sunday and 1 a.m. on Mondays if it has gross receipts at least 60%
attributed to the sale of food. The said establishments shall have a Sunday
beer license to sell 3.2% malt liquor.
   (I)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (J)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the resolution
establishing fees and charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time prior to receiving
the approved license from the city.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 122.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 60 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   On an initial application or for transfer of a liquor license, the city
shall conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation of the
applicant or contract with the State Commissioner of Public Safety for such an
investigation. The Council may also conduct or contract with the State
Commissioner of Public Safety for a background and financial investigation on
application for renewal of liquor licenses. The applicant shall pay with the
application an investigation fee established by Council resolution, which shall
be in addition to any license fee.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation, the Council shall in its
sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license shall become
effective until the proof of financial security has been approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 100 feet of any active school or
active church. The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the
church to the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor
is to be sold. The provisions of this division shall not apply to any license
existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of an existing
license.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (B)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (C)   No on sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (D)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   No type of intoxicating liquor or malt liquor beverage may be sold
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. through 8:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday and 1:
00 a.m. through 12 noon, on Sunday. Only 3.2% malt liquor may be sold 12 noon
Sunday through 1:00 a.m. Monday, unless otherwise noted in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M. S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 112.50 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   The city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a municipal
liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor. Except as provided in §
112.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.51 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off sale and on sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.52 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall operate the municipal liquor store under the
Council's direction and shall perform those duties in connection with the store
as may be established by the Council. The Manager shall be responsible to the
Council for the conduct of the store in full compliance with this chapter and
with the laws relating to the sale of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Manager may also appoint part-time employees as
may be necessary. All employees shall be placed in the appropriate range and
step on the same pay schedule as other city employees as determined by the City
Manager. All employees, including the Manager, shall hold their positions at
the pleasure of the Council. No person under the age of 18 shall be employed in
the store. The Council may require the employees to furnish surety bonds
conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties in a sum as specified by
the Council. The premium on the bond may be paid by the city or the employees,
as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 180 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Days and hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of
intoxicating liquor may be sold shall be set by Council resolution, Monday
through Saturday. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may
remain in the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time
when the sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.53 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.54 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
(Am. Ord. 354, passed 1-14-2008)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Permit; exemptions
   
113.04   Permit ineligibility
   
113.05   Permit suspension and revocation
   
113.06   Permit transferability
   
113.07   Prohibited activities
   
113.08   Exclusion by placard
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house or door-to-door, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term peddler shall mean the same as the term
hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street- to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   Persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales, participants in an organized multi-person
bazaar or flea market, and those conducting sales associated with public
schools or local non-profit organizations, shall be exempt from the definitions
of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as shall be anyone conducting
an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any officer of the court
conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the definitions for the scope
of this chapter shall not excuse any person from complying with any other
applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
113.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 113.03 PERMIT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County permit required. No person shall conduct business as a peddler,
solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first having
obtained the appropriate permit from the county as required by M.S. Ch. 329 as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   City permit required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a permit from the city.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city permit to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made available from the office of the
City Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant.
      (9)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily permit, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days).
      (10)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (12)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (13)   Proof of any requested county license.
      (14)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (15)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (16)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (17)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (18)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, and which may be listed in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the permit fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the permit unless there exist grounds for
denying the permit under §
113.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the permit. If the City Clerk denies
the permit, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing
before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days
of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a Writ of Certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. All permits granted under this chapter shall be valid only
during the time period indicated on the permit.
   (G)   Permit exemptions.
      (1)   No permit shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No permit shall be required of any person going from house-to-house
or door-to-door, when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 PERMIT INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a permit under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the permit is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 113.05 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any permit issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the permitted activity.
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a permit could have
been denied under §
113.04.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one permit. The suspension or revocation of any
permit issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the permittee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the permittee
whose permit is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any permit issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the permit holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the permittee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the permit application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the permit
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the permittee shall have the right to request a public hearing.
If no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the permittee of
its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant permitted under this chapter, the City Council
may immediately suspend the person's permit and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose permit is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 PERMIT TRANSFERABILITY.
   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person other
than the person to whom the permit was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING SERVICES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Prohibitions
   
114.03   Application for license; fees; issuance
   
114.04   Inspection of facilities
   
114.05   Suspension or revocation of license
   
114.06   Consent for performing procedures on persons under 18
   
114.07   Prohibitions relating to persons under 18
   
114.08   Defenses to violations
   
114.09   Training standards; records; safety and sanitation; equipment
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. A Board of Health established under the provisions of M.S.
§ 145A.03, as it may be amended from time to time. If the city does not have a
Board of Health, then this term means the authority having the duties of a
Board of Health in the city, including but not limited to the County Board of
Health.
   BODY PIERCING. Includes ear piercing except when the ear piercing procedure
is performed with an ear piercing gun.
   BUSINESS. Any entity that provides services for compensation.
   EAR PIERCING GUN. A mechanical device that pierces the ear by forcing a
disposable single-use stud or solid needle through the ear.
   PARENT or GUARDIAN. A mother, father, or other adult person having the
primary care or custody of a minor.
   TATTOO. Has the same meaning given in M.S. § 609.2246, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 114.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing or body piercing services
unless the City Council issues it a license to do so;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing or body piercing procedure in a manner that does
not meet the safety and sanitation standards established by this chapter and
any federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations;
   (C)   Perform a tattooing procedure, body piercing procedure, or ear
piercing procedure with an ear piercing gun in a manner that does not meet the
standards for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of invasive equipment
or parts of equipment used in performing the procedures established by this
chapter and any federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A person seeking approval to operate a business that offers tattooing
or body piercing services shall apply to the city on forms the city or the
Board of Health shall prescribe and provide. The applicant shall submit all
information the city and the Board of Health determines is necessary to process
the application. The applicant shall include the fee established under the
city's Ordinance Establishing Fees and Charges, and which may be listed in §
34.01, as it may be amended from time to time, or as established by the Board
of Health.
   (B)   To receive approval to offer tattooing or body piercing services, a
business must demonstrate to the Board of Health the ability to meet the
requirements established by this chapter and any federal, state or local laws,
rules or regulations for safe performance of the tattooing or body piercing
procedures, training of the individuals who perform the procedures, and
maintenance of records.
   (C)   If the Board of Health determines, following an inspection conducted
under §
114.04, that a business meets the requirements for approval, it shall so advise
the city. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license
to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the City Council's decision. Approval remains valid for one year unless
earlier suspended or revoked under §
114.05. A business's approval may be renewed. Approval is not transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 INSPECTION OF FACILITIES.
   The Board of Health, or a person or another body designed by the city, shall
conduct at least one inspection of a business prior to approving the business
under §
114.03 to offer tattooing or body piercing services. The Board may conduct
additional inspections as necessary for the approval process. The Board of
Health may inspect an approved business at any time the Board considers
necessary. In an inspection, the Board of Health shall be given access to the
business's premises and to all records relevant to the inspection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may suspend or revoke the approval of a business to offer
tattooing or body piercing services at any time it determines that the business
is being operated in violation of this chapter or any federal, state or local
laws, rules or regulations. Proceedings for suspensions and revocations shall
be conducted in accordance with rules adopted in
Chapter 110 for the suspension or revocation of business licenses.
§ 114.06 CONSENT FOR PERFORMING PROCEDURES ON PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   No person shall perform a tattooing procedure, body piercing
procedure, or ear piercing procedure with an ear piercing gun on an individual
who is under 18 years of age unless consent has been given by the individual's
parent, guardian, or custodian in accordance with division (B) of this section.
The consent must include both the custodial and non-custodial parents, where
applicable.
   (B)   A parent, guardian or custodian of an individual under age 18 who
desires to give consent to a business to perform on the individual under age 18
a tattooing procedure, body piercing procedure, or ear piercing procedure
performed with an ear piercing gun shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is
performed;
      (2)   Sign a document provided by the business that explains the manner
in which the procedure will be performed and methods for proper care of the
affected body area following performance of the procedure.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   (1)   unless consent has been given in accordance with §
114.06, no individual who is under age 18 shall obtain or attempt to obtain a
tattooing service, body piercing service, or ear piercing service performed
with an ear piercing gun.
      (2)   No individual who is under age 18 shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual's name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of obtaining a tattooing service, body piercing
service, or ear piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun.
   (B)   (1)   No individual shall knowingly show or give any false information
as to the name, age, or other identification of an individual who is under age
18 for the purpose of obtaining for the individual under age 18 a tattooing
service, body piercing service, or ear piercing service performed with an ear
piercing gun.
      (2)   No individual shall impersonate the parent, guardian or custodian
of an individual who is under age 18 for the purpose of obtaining for the
individual under age 18 a tattooing service, body piercing service, or ear
piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 DEFENSES TO VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An operator or employee of a business that performs tattooing
services, body piercing services, or ear piercing services performed with an
ear piercing gun may not be found guilty of a violation of §
114.06(A) or any federal, state or local laws, rules or regulations in which
age is an element of the provisions if:
      (1)   The individual obtaining a tattooing service, body piercing
service, or ear piercing service performed with an ear piercing gun, at the
time of so doing, exhibited to the operator or employee of the tattooing, body
piercing, or ear piercing business a driver's or commercial driver's license or
an identification card issued under state law showing that the individual was
then at least age 18;
      (2)   The operator or employee made a bona fide effort to ascertain the
true age of the individual obtaining a tattooing, body piercing, or ear
piercing service by checking the identification presented, at the time of the
service, to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the individual and that the identification had not been
altered in any way; and
      (3)   The operator or employee had reason to believe that the individual
obtaining a tattooing, body piercing, or ear piercing service was at least age
18.
   (B)   In any action or proceeding before a court of record in which a
defense is raised under this section, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Registrar's Deputy who issued a driver's or commercial driver's license or an
identification card shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the
records, in the Registrar's or Deputy's possession, of the issuance in lieu of
the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles at the hearing,
action or proceeding.
§ 114.09 TRAINING STANDARDS; RECORDS; SAFETY AND SANITATION; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each operator of a business that offers tattooing or body piercing
services shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Maintain procedures for ensuring that the individuals who perform
tattooing or body piercing procedures are adequately trained to perform the
procedures properly;
      (2)   With respect to tattooing services, maintain written records that
include the color, manufacturer and lot number of each pigment used for each
tattoo performed;
      (3)   Comply with the safety and sanitation requirements for preventing
transmission of infectious diseases, as established in any federal, state or
local laws, rules or regulations;
      (4)   Require the individuals who perform tattooing and body piercing
procedures to disinfect and sterilize all invasive equipment or parts of
equipment used in performing the procedures by using methods that meet the
disinfection and sterilization requirements established in any federal, state
or local laws, rules or regulations;
      (5)   Ensure that weekly tests of the business's heat sterilization
devices are performed to determine whether the devices are functioning
properly. In having the devices tested, the operator of the business shall use
a biological monitoring system that indicates whether the devices are killing
microorganisms. If a test indicates that a device is not functioning properly,
the operator shall take immediate remedial action to ensure that heat
sterilization is being accomplished. The operator shall maintain documentation
that the weekly tests are being performed. To comply with the documentation
requirement, the documents must consist of a log that indicates the date on
which each test is performed and the name of the person who performed the test
or, if a test was conducted by an independent testing entity, a copy of the
entity's testing report. The operator shall maintain records of each test
performed for at least two years.
   (B)   Each operator of a business that offers ear piercing services
performed with an ear piercing gun shall require the individuals who perform
the ear piercing services to disinfect and sterilize the ear piercing gun by
using chemical solutions that meet the disinfection and sterilization
requirements established in any federal, state or local laws, rules or
regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND ADULT USES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Purpose and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
License
   
115.20   Purpose
   
115.21   License required
   
115.22   Applications
   
115.23   Renewal applications
   
115.24   License fees
   
115.25   Granting of license
   
115.26   Persons ineligible for license
   
115.27   Places ineligible for license
   
115.28   Conditions of license
   
115.29   Existing licenses compliance
Regulations
   
115.45   General
   
115.46   Additional requirements
   
115.47   Nonconforming sexually-oriented business, adult use; principal or
accessory
   
115.48   Building standards
   
115.49   Hours of operation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The regulations of this section have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. It is not the intent nor
effect of this Code to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by distributors
and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. It
is the purpose of this Code to regulate sexually oriented businesses and adult
uses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens
of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
   (A)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
   (B)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
   (C)   To locate sexually oriented businesses away from schools, churches,
residential properties, day care centers, libraries, parks, commercial,
recreational facilities for minors, and businesses selling alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Prevent concentration of sexually oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city;
   (E)   Prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
      (1)   Any business that devotes a substantial or significant portion of
its floor area (not including store rooms, stock areas, bathroom areas, or
basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public) to, or
derives a substantial or significant portion of its revenues from, items,
merchandise, devices or other materials distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on material depicting, exposing, simulating, describing, discussing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Any of the following adult uses:
         ADULT USES - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or nontransparent, to the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for
the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture film, if the building
or portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public, excluding any minor by reason of age, and if a
substantial or
significant portion of such items are distinguished and characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing
or other live entertainment distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on
the depiction of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, or
the presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to evoke, arouse,
or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
         ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of engaging
in or listening to conversation, talk. or discussion, if such service is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes
minors by reason of age, and if the club is distinguished and characterized by
an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and where material if presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health
club which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services
of massage, if such service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, and if the material is distinguished and characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
         ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is
the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the
intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
         ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image producing devises are maintained to show
images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images
so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if
the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, and if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
         ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which simulate human genitals or devices which are
designed for sexual stimulation.
         ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, and
which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ESCORT. Any person who receives financial consideration for consorting
with or escorting another person in any public or private place within the
city.
      ESCORT BUREAU. Any person who offers to furnish an escort for financial
consideration.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence; or
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation; or
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast; or
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
         (g)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
LICENSE
§ 115.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to establish regulations governing the
licensing of sexually oriented businesses classified as adult uses in the city
to prevent the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate a sexually oriented business
classified as adult use-principal defined in this chapter without having first
secured a license as hereinafter provided. The owner(s) of a sexually oriented
business in operation as of the effective date of the ordinance set forth in
this chapter shall be required to file an application for a license as required
by this chapter on or before the effective date; provided, however, that the
city shall not be permitted to enforce this chapter against such owners until
the city renders its decision on the application.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.22 APPLICATIONS.
   An application for the license required by this chapter shall require the
following information:
   (A)   The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the applicant, if
an individual; and if a corporation, the names, residences, phone number and
birth dates of those owners holding more than 5% of the outstanding stock of
the corporation;
   (B)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the manager of the
operation, if different from the owners;
   (C)   The premises wherein the adult use is to be located;
   (D)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to a
sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of which
the applicant or, in the case of a corporation, the owners of more than 5% of
the outstanding stock of the corporation, have been convicted, and whether or
not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar
type of business in other communities;
   (E)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
   (F)   The hours of operation;
   (G)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
   (H)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations and
activities;
   (I)   A description of merchandise, services or entertainment for sale in
premises;
   (J)   The means of restricting access by minors;
   (K)   The property owner’s name and address and business owner’s name and
address.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.23 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for renewal licenses required by this chapter shall be
completed and filed with the City Clerk no later than November 30 of the year
preceding the year for which application is made. Any renewal application not
completed and filed by that date shall be treated as a non-renewal application.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.24 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the city for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any
applications for a license, the city shall refund the license fee paid, minus
the amount of costs necessary for application, investigation and review,
including but not limited to, costs related to administration, planning, legal,
inspection, and police investigation.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as 1 month.
   (C)   The annual fee for an adult use-principal license shall be as set by
resolution of the City Council. The City Council shall not set this fee
arbitrarily, but shall determine the amount in relation to its best estimate of
actual costs of administration, planning, legal, inspection, and police
investigation related to the application and the ongoing operation of the
business.
   (D)   No part of the fee paid by any licensee shall be refunded.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.25 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Clerk or designee(s) shall investigate all facts set out in
the application. Criteria for investigating and evaluating a license shall be
limited to the following:
      (1)   Application shall be completed in full;
      (2)   A license shall not be issued to a person who is ineligible for a
license under §
115.26;
      (3)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant whose place of
business is ineligible for license, under §
115.27;
      (4)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant if the applicant or
the place of business does not comply with §
115.48;
      (5)   A license shall not be issued to an applicant if applicant does not
comply with §§
115.28 and
115.49;
      (6)   The adult use shall be in compliance with all applicable City Code
regulations;
      (7)   The place of business shall meet the state’s building and fire code
regulations in effect as of the date of application.
   (B)   The city shall investigate and notify the applicant, in writing, of
the city’s decision to grant or deny the license within 30 days of the date the
application is received by the city.
      (1)   The City Council shall issue a license within that period of time
to any applicant who, on completion of the city’s investigation, is found to
have met all of the criteria defined in §
115.24.
      (2)   If an application is denied, the city’s notice shall specify in
writing the reason(s) for the denial.
   (C)   License(s) shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license shall be transferred to
another place without the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Any applicant who has received notice that his, her, or its
application for a license has been denied shall have the right of prompt
judicial review without the need to first appeal to the city.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.26 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to or held by any person:
   (A)   Under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license
is issued.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.27 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where a
licensee or applicant has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or any
crime that would constitute a violation of this chapter, or where there have
been convictions for activities on the premises such as would cause the
building to constitute a public nuisance under M.S. §§ 617.80-617.87, as they
may be amended from time to time, until 1 year has elapsed after the conviction
(s) related to such events.
   (B)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall locate in any place which is also
used to dispense or consume alcohol.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.28 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to all of the conditions of
this chapter and of any other applicable county, state or federal law.
   (B)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (C)   No minor shall be permitted on the licensed premises and the licensee
shall not employ any minors. Provisions to restrict access by minors shall
prohibit any entry or view into the portion of the premises in which the
sexually oriented business is carried on.
   (D)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter and inspect all public areas of the premises of a
licensee during the regular business hours and during non-business hours to
determine compliance with §
115.28.
   (E)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of the place of
business and shall maintain conditions of order.
   (F)   No person to whom a license has been issued shall permit to be or
remain in any adult entertainment establishment any obviously intoxicated
person.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.29 EXISTING LICENSEES COMPLIANCE.
   All existing businesses shall be required to conform with this section upon
adoption and publication according to law.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
REGULATIONS
§ 115.45 GENERAL.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses or adult uses, as defined in §
115.02, shall be subject to the following general provisions:
      (1)   Activities defined as obscene by M.S. § 617.241 are not permitted
and are prohibited;
      (2)   Sexually oriented businesses and adult uses, either principal or
accessory, shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also
utilized for residential purposes;
      (3)   Sexually oriented businesses and adult uses, either principal or
accessory, shall be prohibited from locating in any place which is also used to
dispense, consume or sell alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   A sexually oriented business or adult use which does not qualify as
an accessory use shall be classified as an adult use-principal;
      (5)   Sexually oriented businesses or adult use classified as an adult
use-principal may not locate or operate within the city without first obtaining
a sexually oriented businesses adult use principal license as required by §
115.01.
   (B)   (1)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted uses in
commercial districts only and located at least 500 radial feet, as measured in
a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the building
upon which the adult use-principal is located to the property line of:
         (a)   Property zoned R, Residential;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   Public or private educational facilities, including preschools,
elementary, junior high or senior high schools;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use, principal;
         (g)   Churches;
         (h)   Commercial recreational facilities if the majority of its
customers consist of minors;
         (i)   Specialty schools if the majority of its students consist of
minors;
         (j)   Businesses selling alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   Two or more sexually oriented businesses shall not be located in
the same building or upon the same property.
      (3)   Sexually oriented businesses shall adhere to the following signing
regulations:
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business or use which is being conducted; and
         (b)   Shall not contain material classified as advertising; and
         (c)   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located.
      (4)   Sexually oriented businesses - adult use shall be prohibited at any
public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical, or other performance
or exhibition presented to the general public where minors are permitted.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.46 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All sexually oriented businesses and all businesses or establishments that
deal in any item, merchandise, devices or activities depicting specified sexual
activity or specified anatomical areas shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Persons under the age of 18 shall be prohibited from accessing or
viewing any such items, merchandise, devices or activities.
   (B)   Magazines depicting specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas shall be covered with an opaque wrapper or cover that displays
only the magazine’s title.
   (C)   No internal or external advertising depicting adult materials or
products is allowed.
   (D)   The businesses or establishments shall at all times comply with M.S.
§§ 617.291 - 617.296, as they may be amended from time to time, commonly known
as the “Harmful to Minors Act.”
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.47 NONCONFORMING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES, ADULT USE; PRINCIPAL OR
ACCESSORY.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses and adult uses which are classified as
legal nonconforming uses may continue in accordance with the provision of this
chapter except that any such nonconforming use shall be terminated and become
illegal 12 months after the effective date of this chapter. To the extent
possible, the city shall attempt to identify all such uses which become
classified as nonconforming under the provisions of this section and shall
notify the property owners and operators of such uses in writing of the change
in status and the terms and conditions which apply. The owner of any property
or business on which an adult use is located may apply to the City Council for
an extension of the termination date.
   (B)   Any such application shall be in writing and be received by the city
at least 30 days prior to the termination date. Failure to submit a timely
extension application shall constitute a waiver of the right to request an
extension. The extension may be granted if the applicant demonstrates that the
amortization period if an unreasonable burden upon the business and does not
allow adequate time to recover a reasonable return upon the business
investment. The applicant shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate
hardship with the established termination date and also the time required for
an extension. In making its decision, the City Council may consider any factor
relevant to the issue, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The degree or magnitude of threat to the public health, safety, and
general welfare posed by the secondary impacts of the operation;
      (2)   The length of time that the adult use has been operating;
      (3)   The ease by which the property could be converted to a conforming
use;
      (4)   The nature and character of the surrounding neighborhood;
      (5)   The value and condition of the improvements on the property;
      (6)   The amount of the applicant’s investment in the business;
      (7)   The amount of investment already realized;
      (8)   The cost of relocating the adult use.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.48 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   No commercial building, structure, premises, or part thereof, or
facilities therein used by a sexually oriented business classified as an adult
use-principal shall be so constructed, used, designed or operated for the
purpose of engaging in or permitting persons to engage in sexual activities as
defined in this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate, manage, rent, lease, or exercise control
of any commercial building, structure, premises, or portion or part thereof,
which contains:
      (1)   Partitions between subdivisions of a room, portions or part of a
building, structure or premises having an aperture which is designed or
constructed to facilitate sexual activity between persons on either side of the
partition;
      (2)   Booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room, or individual
rooms, used for adult uses, having doors, curtains or portal partitions, unless
the booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room, or individual rooms so used
shall have at least one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area
inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room. The areas shall be
lighted in a manner that the persons in the area used for adult uses are
visible from the adjacent public rooms, but the lighting shall not be of such
intensity as to present the viewing of motion pictures or other offered adult
uses.
   (C)   All viewing areas or booths in movie arcades shall be accessible from
a continuous main aisle.
   (D)   All viewing areas or booths shall be located together along a
continuous main aisle to eliminate the possibility of secluded booths elsewhere
on the premises.
   (E)   No more than one person shall be permitted to enter or remain in a
viewing area or booth at any time.
   (F)   The viewing areas or booths shall be maintained at all times in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (G)   All entrances to the business, with the exception of emergency fire
exits not usable to enter the business, shall be visible from a public right-
of-way. In addition, all windows and doors shall be so blocked or covered to
prohibit viewing of the interior of the premises from outside of the premises.
   (H)   All performances shall be on a raised state. The stage must be raised
from the surrounding floor by at least 2 feet and no patrons may be on the
stage at any time during any performance.
   (I)   All patrons shall be at least 10 feet from the stage.
   (J)   No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall fondle
or caress any dancer.
   (K)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer and no
dancer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 115.49 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses adult use-principal operations shall be
restricted from operating between the hours of 1:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. The
licensee shall not permit any patron to be in the place of business between the
hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 300, passed 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 116: GARAGE OR RUMMAGE SALES
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Restrictions and prohibitions
   
116.03   Exceptions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   The following term, as used in this chapter, shall have the meaning stated:
   GARAGE OR RUMMAGE SALE. Any display and sale of personal property, conducted
on premises located in any Residentially-Zoned District by the occupant and
which garage or rummage sale does not require a business license or make
taxable sales, leases or services.
§ 116.02 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   None of the items offered for sale shall have been obtained for resale
or received on consignment for sale.
   (B)   Any garage or rummage sale (community or neighborhood sale) shall be
conducted solely within the boundaries of the property owned or occupied by the
occupant who is conducting the sale.
   (C)   There shall be no more than four garage or rummage sales conducted at
any one premises during any period of 12 calendar months.
   (D)   No garage or rummage sale shall be conducted during any part of more
than three consecutive days.
   (E)   No garage or rummage sale may be conducted before 7:00 a.m. or after
8:00 p.m.
   (F)   Any related signage shall be limited to the premises and to other
residential property, provided permission from the property owner is obtained,
and shall be removed at the termination of the sale. Signs shall be limited to
four square feet.
   (G)   There shall be no more than two consecutive sales with 30-day
separation between all others.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any sale under court order, nor to any bona
fide auction sale, nor to a sale of farm or garden products by the person
producing same.
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct a garage or rummage sale in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. A violation of this chapter
is a misdemeanor, to be punished as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 117: REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
Public Dances
   
117.01   Regulation of public dances
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Liquor license required
   
117.04   Hours
   
117.05   Minors prohibited
   
117.06   Certain behavior prohibited
   
117.07   Lighting
   
117.08   Noise
 
   
117.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 117.01 REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES.
   All public dances held in this city shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms stated below shall have the following meanings:
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance where the general public may participate, whether or
not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
§ 117.03 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall give, hold, conduct or permit any public dance where liquor
will be served, as defined in M.S. Ch. 340A, without obtaining a license from
the city.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 HOURS.
   No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed to be present by the permit
holder or any peace officer at a public dance where alcohol is sold or
consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 CERTAIN BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   No person present at any public dance shall engage in any disorderly
conduct, as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to time,
and any disorderly person shall be immediately removed from the dance by an on
duty police officer. Should a substantial number of persons at the public dance
engage in disorderly conduct, an on duty police officer shall terminate the
dance and remove all persons from the public dancing place.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 LIGHTING.
   In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public dance, public
dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing therein while lights
are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give inadequate or imperfect
illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall be illuminated at all
times during the public dance with light having intensity of not less than one
footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5 foot-candles in any
area where dancing is occurring, permitted or encouraged is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08 NOISE.
   All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this code regulating
noise.
Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter relating to
public dances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Enforcement of this division may, at the Council's discretion, take
any of the following forms:
      (1)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
      (2)   Injunctions, declaratory judgements or other civil remedies;
      (3)   Disbursement of persons gathered.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Damage to property; graffiti
   
130.02   Discharging firearms
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
   
130.04   Fireworks
   
130.05   Prohibition of wind energy towers or windmills
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY; GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GRAFFITI. In addition to its usual and customary meaning of defacing
walls or structures with messages or slogans, GRAFFITI shall also mean any
letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, outline, character,
spectacle, delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch,
inscription or representation, wherein the contents thereof are visible to any
member of the general public and which contains references to sexual activity,
diagrams relating to sexual activity or sexual organs, references to criminal
activities or groups which promote or are involved in criminal activity,
swearing or fighting words, defamatory materials about any person, references
to relationships, or any marking of any kind whatsoever which results in damage
to, defacing of, marring of, or discoloring of any sidewalk, street, or other
public surface, any vehicle, any equipment, lamp, lamp post or other city
property, or of the exterior surface of a wall, fence, door, building or other
structure, whether publicly or privately owned.
      OWNER. Means and includes the owner of record of the subject property,
whether public or private, at the time of the placement or discovery of the
graffiti or at a subsequent time, the beneficial owner under a land trust, the
contract purchaser, or that person or persons or trust in whose name the
general taxes for the last preceding year were paid, except that OWNER shall
not include the city.
   (B)   Conduct prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw, or otherwise place
or cause to be placed any graffiti upon the surface of any building, structure,
wall or surface of other property that is publicly or privately owned.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to knowingly
permit any minor child in his or her custody or control to violate division (B)
(1) of this section.
      (3)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor defendant who resides with
the parent or legal guardian at the time of the offense may be held liable for
any fine or condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a
minor for violation of this section; provided, that minor has not paid the fine
or made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with summons
or notice to appear whether in the original cause or in any subsequent
proceedings arising therefrom, including sentencing or collection actions, as
provided by law.
   (C)   Removal by owner.
      (1)   Owner's responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
structure or wall or other private property upon which any graffiti is placed
or made to remove, eradicate, or eliminate the inscription or representation
within 30 days of the occurrence unless granted additional time by the City
Council.
      (2)   Notice to remove graffiti. In the event the owner has failed to
eliminate the graffiti, the owner shall be notified by certified mail or
personal notice that he or she has 30 days from the date of the notice in which
to remove the graffiti. In the event that charges have been filed against the
person believed responsible for placement of the graffiti and the owner can
show to the city that there is a reasonable likelihood that the person will be
required to make restitution or restore the premises to its previous condition,
the owner may be given additional time to meet the removal requirements. In no
event shall the owner be granted more than a total of six months' time to
remove graffiti, but any extensions shall be based solely upon a reasonable
likelihood of apprehension and conviction of the person responsible. In the
absence of the reasonable likelihood, the owner is responsible for removal
within the time allowed in divisions (C)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (3)   List of contractors and cleaning materials. The city may make
available a list of contractors in the business of removing graffiti and list
of cleaning materials generally recognized in the industry as effective in the
removal of graffiti. By providing lists of contractors and cleaning materials,
the city does not guarantee the quality or adequacy of work performed by anyone
selected by owner or the effectiveness or safety of the materials listed, and
the city expressly disclaims responsibility or liability for the quality or
adequacy of the work or materials or any claims for damage or injury arising
therefrom.
   (D)   Removal by the city.
      (1)   The city shall have the right but not the duty to remove graffiti
from the exterior of private property if the owner informs the city of the
presence of the graffiti and of the owner's inability to remove it. Prior to
the city entering any private property to remove graffiti, the owner must sign
a statement authorizing removal by the city and agreeing to pay the reasonable
costs of the removal and to allow the recording of a lien against the real
estate upon which the work was performed if the cost is not paid to the city
within 30 days of the date of the invoice sent to the owner. The owner must
also sign a release holding the city harmless from any claims or suits brought
for damages pursuant to any adverse or injurious effects of such chemicals or
from the actions taken by the city or its employees to remove the graffiti
prior to the city commencing work on the property. If the property owner does
not remove the graffiti within the time specified or extended time requested
and granted by the city or if the city is unable to perform the work at the
request of the owner, the owner shall be subject to the penalties listed in
division (E) of this section.
      (2)   If the city performs the graffiti removal pursuant to division (D)
(1) of this section, it shall be entitled to a lien and to file a notice of
lien against the property upon which the work was performed for the cost of the
removal.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (B) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. Additionally, the court may, as a condition of probation, supervision,
or conditional discharge, require that the party guilty of violating the
provisions of division (B) of this section make full and complete restitution
to the owner of the property for expenses incurred in the removal of the
graffiti or, with the consent of the owner, restore the structure, wall,
building or surface to its previous condition. In addition, the court may order
as a further penalty community service in the form of time to be spent in
cleaning property that has been defaced by graffiti in any location in the
city.
      (2)   Upon a finding of guilty for violation of division (C)(1) of this
section, an offender shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. Each and every day that graffiti is permitted to remain beyond the time
specified in division (C)(2) of this section shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (F)   Compliance by the city.
      (1)   It is the intention of the city that graffiti discovered upon city
property or public property under the jurisdiction and control of the city will
be removed within the time periods for graffiti removal imposed upon other
governmental bodies and owners of private property under this section. The City
Council shall have the authority to order and direct the removal of graffiti.
      (2)   A designated city officer, or his or her designee, shall provide,
no less than semi-annually, a written report to the City Council of graffiti
incidents involving city property and removal efforts by the city. The report
shall include at a minimum the location of the graffiti, charges filed against
or convictions of offenders where relevant, the date and methods of graffiti
removal undertaken by the city and the cost of the removal.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Shooting on the grounds of, over, or near a cemetery. No person shall,
without permission from the proper officials, discharge a firearm on the ground
of, over, a cemetery or within 100 yards thereof, unless the person is upon his
or her own land.
   (B)   Hunting near a city park. No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game
within 100 yards of a city park unless the City Council has granted permission
to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this division.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms prohibited in certain places. No person shall
discharge a firearm on a lawn, park, playground, orchard, or other ground
appurtenant to a school, church, or an inhabited dwelling, the property of
another, or a charitable institution. This section does not prevent or prohibit
the owner thereof from discharging firearms upon his or her own land.
   (D)   Discharging firearms on highways prohibited. No person shall discharge
a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in
the proper enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by
proper federal, state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (F)   If any of the above provisions are found to be in conflict with M.S. §
624.717, as it may be amended from time to time, the provisions of that statute
shall prevail.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      LOITER. Having no specific or apparent proper reason for being out or any
necessity for being out in such a location as found in or coming from no
specific location and going to no specific place that would be considered a
reasonable necessity.
      MINORS. Anyone under the age of 18 years of age or to be anyone under the
age of 18 except where referred to in this Code relative to intoxicating and
3.2% malt liquors.
      REASONABLE NECESSITY. Those activities which would be considered
reasonably necessary by a reasonable adult such as church activities,
authorized school activities or other adult sponsored activities of service
clubs or public bodies.
   (B)   Curfew imposed.
      (1)   No person under the age of 16, except as provided in subsection (3)
below, shall be on any public street or alley or in any park or other public
grounds or building, place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment, vacant
lot, or any other unsupervised place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. on the following day, Sunday through Thursdays, during the scheduled
public school year. When the public school is not in session on the following
day such as summer vacation, holiday vacations, teacher workshops, weekends, or
any other days on which students are not required to be in school attendance,
the curfew hours shall be between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No person between the ages of 16 and 18, except as provided in
subsection (3), shall be in places as set forth in subsection (1) between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the following day, Sunday through
Thursdays during the scheduled public school year. When the public school is
not in session on the following day such as summer vacation, holiday vacations,
teacher workshops, weekends or other days on which students are not required to
be in school attendance, the curfew hours shall be between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   The restrictions of subsection (2) do not apply when the minor:
         (a)   Is accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian, or other person
having the minor’s lawful care, custody or control;
         (b)   Is returning home by a direct route from and within 15 minutes
after a school, religious or voluntary association activity when prior notice
of the activity and its place and probable time of termination has been given
to the Police Department by an adult person authorized by the school, religious
or voluntary association to do so;
         (c)   Is carrying a certified card of employment and is on his way to
or from his place of employment; or
         (d)   Is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business
directed by the minor’s parent, guardian, or other adult having the lawful
custody of the minor.
   (C)   Responsibility of parent, guardian, or other custodial adult. No
parent, guardian, or other adult having custody and control of a minor shall
knowingly permit the minor to violate the provisions of subsection (B)(1) or
(2).
   (D)   Responsibility of other persons. Whenever the owner or person in
charge or control of any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment, or
other place of business shall find any minor in such place in violation of
subsection (B)(1) or (2), he shall immediately order the person to leave, and
if the person refuses to leave, the owner or person in charge shall immediately
inform the Police Department of the violation.
   (E)   Penalties. Any minor found on a street or other place in violation of
division (B) of this section shall be ordered to go home immediately. After
investigation, if the responsible city authorities determine that court action
should be initiated, the minor shall be dealt with in accordance with the
juvenile law and procedure. Any such minor who is convicted of a violation of
this section after the case has been referred for prosecution in the trial
court under M.S. § 260.15, as it may be amended from time to time, and any
person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of division (B) of this
section is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine as
set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. —, passed - -; Am. Ord. 308, passed 4-8-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use, display, possession, discharge or sale of any fireworks not
expressly permitted by M.S. § 624.20, Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from
time to time, is strictly prohibited.
   (B)   All use, display or discharge of those non-explosive, non-aerial
pyrotechnic entertainment devices only containing the limited amounts of
pyrotechnic chemical compositions described in and permitted by M.S. § 624.20,
Subd. 1(c), as it may be amended from time to time, hereinafter referred to as
“permitted consumer fireworks”, is strictly prohibited in:
      (1)   The area on, below, above or within or in close proximity to:
recreational areas, roadways, streets, highways, bicycle lanes, pedestrian
paths, sidewalks, rights-of-way, lakes, rivers, waterways and all other
property owned or leased by the city, the county in which the city is located,
the State of Minnesota or the federal government and located in whole or in
part within the city limits;
      (2)   Private property within the city limits that has conspicuously
posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks discharge is allowed;
      (3)   Within 300 feet of any consumer fireworks retail sales facility or
storage area that has posted a written sign or notice that no fireworks
discharge is allowed; and
      (4)   Any property, area, or structure that, by its physical condition or
the physical conditions in which it is set, would constitute a fire or personal
safety hazard.
   (C)   All other use, display or discharge of permitted consumer fireworks
must be conducted in a manner that minimizes the risk of fire or injury to
other persons or property.
§ 130.05 PROHIBITION OF WIND ENERGY TOWERS OR WINDMILLS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is in the public interest and contributes to the
protection of the public’s safety, health and welfare to prohibit the
construction of wind energy towers or similar structures within the city.
   (B)   Prohibition of wind energy towers. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to erect, construct in place or re-erect, a tower
or similar structures for the purposes of wind-energy generation or windmill
purposes within the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to decorative landscape
windmills.
(Ord. 338, passed 12-27-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violated any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of §
130.03 may be adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional
alternatives set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Jurisdiction
   
150.004   Definitions
   
150.005   Developer agreement
   
150.006   Compliance
   
150.007   Required approvals of subdivision plats
   
150.008   Conveyance requirement
   
150.009   Disclosure by seller
   
150.010   Registered land surveys
   
150.011   Required fees
   
150.012   Conflict
Concept Plan
   
150.025   Concept Plan review
   
150.026   Data required for Concept review
Preliminary Plat
   
150.040   Filing application
   
150.041   Data required for Preliminary Plat
   
150.042   Review and action on Preliminary Plat
Final Plat
   
150.055   Final Plat submission
   
150.056   Data required for Final Plat
   
150.057   Partial Final Plat
   
150.058   Forms of approval required on Final Plat
   
150.059   Review and action on Final Plat
   
150.060   Effect of subdivision approval
Design Standards
   
150.075   General requirements
   
150.076   Streets
   
150.077   Easements
   
150.078   Block standards
   
150.079   Lot standards
   
150.080   Land dedication
   
150.081   Municipal services of water and sanitary sewer
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.095   Granting a variance
   
150.096   Planned unit developments
   
150.097   Conformance to zoning
   
150.098   Administration
 
   
150.998   Violations
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “Subdivision
Ordinance of the City of Madison,” except as referred to herein, where it shall
be known as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority in M.S. §§ 429, 462.358, 471, 505, this chapter is
adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the municipality;
   (B)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the municipality and to encourage the orderly and beneficial
development of all parts of the municipality;
   (C)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the municipality
and the value of buildings and improvements upon land and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (D)   To assure those public improvements such as streets, utilities, and
drainage are constructed to satisfactory standards;
   (E)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, lakes, ponds and wetlands;
to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table;
and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout
the municipality in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of
the community and the value of land;
   (F)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting therefrom;
   (G)   Provide common grounds of understanding between prospective subdivides
and municipal officials;
   (H)   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit
developments, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with
minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.003 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land shall
apply to all lands within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer designated by the City Council to furnish
engineering assistance for the administration of this chapter.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan prepared by and adopted the Planning Commission
and approved by the City Council which indicates the general locations
recommended for the various functional classes of public works, places and
structures and for the general physical development of the city and included
any unit or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to the plans
or parts thereof.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary
plat to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general
conclusions with the Planning Commission as to the form of the plat and
objectives of this chapter.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things
the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-way,
blocks, easements, and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including but not limited to
sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or
storm drainage ways, and gas lines.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, co-partnership, public or private
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having title to or an ownership
interest in real estate.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. The rise or fall of a slope in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance. The center line of a street
shall be used to determine the street rise of grade.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The City of Madison Planning Commission.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record and
containing all elements and requirements of this chapter.
   PLAT, FINAL. A finished drawing or map showing completely and accurately all
legal and engineering information and certification necessary for recording
with the county.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A preliminary drawing or map indicating the proposed
layout of a subdivision, but not in final form for recording, to be submitted
to the Planning Commission for its consideration.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, place, or however
designated.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street or highway with access restrictions designed to
carry large volumes of traffic between various sections of the city and beyond.
It has a secondary function of providing access to abutting land.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local streets to
arterials. It provides access to abutting property.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A street turn around with only one outlet.
   STREET, HALF. A street having only half of its intended roadway width
developed to accommodate traffic.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
the abutting properties and the local need of a neighborhood and ideally
leading into collector streets.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street serving as vehicular access to one or more parcels
of land which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one or more
private parties.
   STREET, SERVICE. Marginal access street otherwise designated as a minor
street, which is parallel and adjacent to a thoroughfare which provides access
to abutting properties and avoids through traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation, or partnership causing land to be
divided, subdivided, or platted into a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be divided into 2 or more
lots of parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 5 acres in area,
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development or, if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes re-
subdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context, related either to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. The term subdivision shall
not apply for subdivisions:
      (1)   Creating cemetery lots;
      (2)   Resulting from court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered in the state.
   TANGENT. A straight line departing from a curve which is perpendicular to
the radius of that curve.
   TRACT. A parcel of land intended for division or development of a
subdivision.
   U.S.G.S. Refers to the United States Geodetic Survey.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentage of grade.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning code controlling the use of land as adopted by
the city.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.005 DEVELOPER AGREEMENT.
   The city may grant a developer permission to do work at its own expense, on
the condition that the work be done under supervision of the city or its
agents, engineers, or other representatives, on the terms and conditions
contained in the signed development agreement or any other contracts or
documents referred to.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.006 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.007 REQUIRED APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have any validity, it shall have been reviewed by the
City Planning Commission and approved by the City Council and recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.008 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   After the adoption of this chapter, no conveyance of land to which
this chapter is applicable shall be filed or recorded if the land in the
conveyance is described by metes and bounds description; is an unapproved
registered land survey; or is an unapproved plat.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to a conveyance if the
land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel or record created by metes and bounds
description or any registered land survey on or before the effective date of
this chapter;
      (2)   Was a separate parcel of record or was the subject of a written
agreement to convey on or before the effective date of this chapter;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2-1/2 acres and 150 feet in
width on or before the effective date of this chapter;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 5 acres and 300 feet in
width on record before the effective date of this chapter;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than 5 acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 5 acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   It is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not
less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its
conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or
parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width.   
   (C)   In any case in which compliance with the above provision of this
chapter, will create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not
interfere with the purpose of this chapter, the City Council may waive the
compliance by resolution thereby permitting filing or recording.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.009 DISCLOSURE BY SELLER.
   (A)   Any person conveying a lot created after the adoption of this chapter
shall attach to the instrument of conveyance one of the following:
      (1)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Clerk that the
requirements of this chapter do not apply;
      (2)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Clerk that the
requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled;
      (3)   A recordable certificate that the restrictions on the division of
taxes and filing and recording have been waived by the City Council. The waiver
shall only be granted when compliance with this chapter will create an
unnecessary hardship and failure to comply will not interfere with the purpose
of this chapter.
   (B)   In cases where division (A) of this section is not used, the seller
shall attach to the instrument of conveyance a statement which:
      (1)   Names and identifies the location of the appropriate municipal
offices and advises the grantee that municipal subdivision and zoning
regulations may restrict use or restrict or prohibit the development of the
parcel or construction on it; and
      (2)   That the division of taxes and the filing or recording of the
conveyance may be prohibited unless a recordable certificate or waiver has been
issued according to division (A) of this section.
   (C)   In any action commenced by a buyer of such a parcel against the seller
thereof, the misrepresentation of or the failure to disclose material facts in
accordance with this chapter shall be grounds for damages. If the buyer
establishes his right to damages, a district court hearing the matter may in
its discretion also award to the buyer an amount sufficient to pay all or any
part of the costs incurred in maintaining the action, including reasonable
attorney fees, and an amount for punitive damages not exceeding 5% of the
purchase price of the land.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.010 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   All registered land surveys filed with the City Clerk shall be subject to
the same procedure as required for the filing of a plat. The standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to all registered land
surveys. Unless the governing body shall approve, a registered land survey
shall not be used to divide the parcel of land into tracts for the purpose of
transfer of ownership or building development, if any of the tracts do not have
the minimum lot area or required frontage on a dedicated public street.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.011 REQUIRED FEES.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee as may be established by
the City Council.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.012 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any other
official regulations or ordinances of the city; provided, however, that when
there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those
contained in other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the most
restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
CONCEPT PLAN
§ 150.025 CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Prior to the filing of application of a preliminary plat, the owner or
owner’s representative shall meet with the City Planning Commission for
informal discussion of the proposed plat. The owner will be asked to submit a
sketch plan showing that consideration has been given to the relationship of
the proposed subdivision to existing community facilities that would serve it,
to neighboring subdivisions and development, and to the topography of the site.
The Planning Commission shall, on the basis of the sketch plan, advise as to
the extent which the proposed subdivision concept conforms to this chapter and
other applicable city ordinances and suggest possible plan modifications
necessary to obtain approval of the proposed plan.
   (B)   Submittal of the sketch plan does not constitute submittal of an
application for subdivision.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.026 DATA REQUIRED FOR CONCEPT REVIEW.
   The Concept Plan shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The location of that portion which is to be subdivided in relation to
the entire tract and the existing street pattern;
   (B)   All existing structures, wooded areas, streams and other significant
physical features, within the portion to be subdivided. All benchmarks shall be
referenced to local datum or U.S.G.S. if readily available;
   (C)   The name of the owner and of all adjoining property owners as
disclosed by the most recent tax records;
   (D)   All utilities available, and all streets, which are either proposed,
mapped or built;
   (E)   Proposed pattern of lots and street layout;
   (F)   All existing restrictions on the use of the land, including easements
or zoning lines.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 150.040 FILING APPLICATION.
   Before any lot or parcel less than 5 acres in area may be conveyed of
record, the owner shall file with the City Clerk at least 15 working days
before the regular meeting date of the Planning Commission, the following
materials:
   (A)   A completed subdivision application including payment of the
application fees. The city will notify the applicant of anything missing from
the application within 15 days after receipt. The time limit for approval
starts with receipt of a complete application and application fee;
   (B)   Three prints of a preliminary plat completed in compliance with the
provision of §
150.041;
   (C)   Other supplementary material as enumerated in this chapter.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.041 DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision. It shall not duplicate the
names of any plat previously recorded in Lac qui Parle County or in the city.
      (2)   Location by section, township and range, or by other legal
description.
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owner and subdivider having control
of the lands included in the preliminary plat, the designer of the plat and the
surveyor.
      (4)    Graphic scale, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet.
      (5)   A north arrow.
      (6)   Date of preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   An accurately drawn, to scale, preliminary plat, including
distances and total acreage in plat as well as individual lots.
      (2)   Location and names of existing or platted streets or other public
ways, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
easements, section lines and city boundary lines within the tract and to a
distance of 100 feet beyond the tract.
      (3)   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original name shall be indicated by dotted and dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways or the original plat shall be so indicated.
      (4)   Location and size of existing paved streets, railroads, sewers,
water mains, quarries, gravel pits, culverts, or other underground facilities
within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract. Also, such
data as grades, invert elevation and location of catch basins, manholes and
hydrants.
      (5)   Complete topographic map, when practical and necessary for the
development of the subdivision, with contour intervals not greater than 2 feet.
Water, wetland designations, rock outcrops and other significant features
should be shown. All topographic information should be shown on the preliminary
plat.
      (6)   Boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles,
which shall close by latitude and departure with an error of closure not
exceeding 1 foot in 10,000 feet.
      (7)   Total acreage in the preliminary and individual lots, computed to
one-hundredth of an acre.
      (8)   Boundary lines of adjoining platted or unplatted land and owners of
all tracts of land within 100 feet.
   (C)   Design features of preliminary plats.
      (1)   Layout of streets, showing right-of-way, widths, and names.
      (2)   Locations and widths of alleys and pedestrian ways.
      (3)   Layout, lots and block numbers, and typical lot dimensions scaled
to the nearest foot.
      (4)   Areas other than those mentioned above intended to be dedicated for
public use, including the size of those areas.
      (5)   A draft of proposed restrictive covenants if any is contemplated.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.042 REVIEW AND ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Public hearing required.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the above information, the City Clerk shall place
the proposed plat on the agenda of the next regular Planning Commission
meeting.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held on the preliminary plat application.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the municipality at least 10 days prior to the day of the
hearing. Notification shall also be mailed to the subdivider and the owner(s)
of the property within 350 feet to the land within the plat.
   (B)   Review and action. The Planning Commission shall within a reasonable
time, pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or modified. If
approved, the Planning Commission shall express its approval as conditional
approval and state the conditions of the approval, if any, or if disapproved,
shall express its reasons. The approval or disapproval shall be transmitted to
the Council and the Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat.
Approval means the acceptance of the preliminary plat as the basis for
preparation of a final plat.
   (C)   Time limits for review of the preliminary plat.
      (1)   A subdivision application shall be preliminarily approved or
disapproved within 120 days following delivery of an application completed in
compliance with this chapter by the applicant to the city, unless the applicant
has agreed to an extension of the review period.
      (2)   If the City Council fails to preliminarily approve or disapprove an
application within the review period, the application shall be deemed
preliminarily approved, and upon demand the City Clerk shall execute a
certificate to that effect.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
FINAL PLAT
§ 150.055 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION.
   The final plat, conforming substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, shall be submitted to the City Clerk at least 15 days before the
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The City Clerk shall
place the final plat on the agenda of the next regular Planning Commission
meeting and send notices as may be required.
   (A)   Three prints of a final plat shall be completed in compliance with the
provisions of §
150.056.
   (B)   Other supplementary material shall be submitted as enumerated in this
chapter.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.056 DATA REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be on a sheet of such size as may be acceptable
for filing in the office of the County Recorder and shall include the following
information set forth in this section.
   (B)   The information, which is required for the final plat shall be that,
required by M.S. § 505, as it may be amended from time to time, plus additional
requirements if such requirements do not conflict with M.S. § 505, as it may be
amended from time to time. Where necessary, the final plat may be on several
sheets, provided they are numbered and a key map is presented on the sheets
showing the entire subdivision. The final plat shall have incorporated all
changes or modifications required and in all other respects conform to the
approved preliminary plat. It may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat, which the subdivider proposes to record and develop, provided
that the portion conforms to all the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The name of the subdivision shall be lettered in prominent print at
the top of the plat, together with the name of the city, township and county
wherein the subdivision lies. The name of the subdivision shall be simple in
nature, easy to pronounce and shall not duplicate in exact name any plat of
record in the city or county.
   (D)   Location by section, township and range, or by other legal
description.
   (E)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than owner, and the
name of the land surveyor.
   (F)   Graphic scale, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet.
   (G)   North point, designated as true north.
   (H)   Date of preparation.
   (I)   The following notation shall also be shown:
      (1)   Explanation of drainage easements, if any;
      (2)   Explanation of site easements, if any;
      (3)   Explanation of reservations, if any;
      (4)   Endorsement of owner, as follows:
          Owner                                                       Date
                     
      (5)   Site data such a number of lots, typical lot size, and park
acreage;
      (6)   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping center,
industry or other non-public uses exclusive of that information about
subdivision’s land use classification.
   (J)   A boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles, which
shall close by latitude and departure with an error of closure not exceeding 1
foot in 10,000 feet.
   (K)   Certifications required on final plat:
      (1)   Notarized certification by licensed land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and the monuments shown on
the plat exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct;
      (2)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (3)   Certification showing that all delinquent taxes and special
assessments due on the property have been paid in full.
   (L)   When there is more than 1 sheet, an index sheet shall be attached,
showing the entire subdivision, including boundary and streets, at an
appropriate scale. On each sheet, there shall be match lines for matching all
adjoining sheets.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.057 PARTIAL FINAL PLAT.
   The owner may file the final plat limited to such portion of the preliminary
plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time, provided that the
portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.058 FORMS OF APPROVAL REQUIRED ON THE FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Form of approval by the City Council as follows:
      Approved by the City Council of Madison, Minnesota, this
                        day of ______________________, 20____
          Signed:_______________________________
                Mayor
         Attest:________________________________
                     City Clerk
   (B)   Form of review of the Planning Commission as follows:
      Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the City of Madison, Minnesota,
this _______________day of ____________________, 20____
         Signed:_______________________ _______________________
   (C)   Form of approval required by County Auditor and Recorder are as per
county requirements. A certificate or other evidence shall be required to or
upon the plat for filing in the office of the County Recorder or Registrar of
Titles as to the submission of or the obtaining of such written comments and
recommendations. The Home Rule Charter or statutory city, town or county shall
provide the certificate or other evidence to the County Recorder or Registrar
of Titles. (M.S. § 505.03, Subd. 2, as amended from time to time)
   (D)   Form of certificate required if land abuts county or State Hwy. As per
M.S. § 505.3, Subd. 2, as amended from time to time, this plat has been
submitted to and written comments and recommendations have been received from
the Commissioner of Transportation and the Lac qui Parle County Highway
Engineer.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.059 REVIEW AND ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   When a final plat meets all the conditions of this Ordinance, the
Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the Council and the Council
shall act on the recommendation. Following final approval or disapproval by the
Council, the City Clerk shall notify the owner or subdivider of the Council's
action and the final plat, when duly certified, signed and acknowledged by the
Planning Commission and Council shall then be recorded in the office of the
County Recorder. After the County Recorder has filed the final plat, the owner
shall provide the City Clerk with the Mylar copy of the final plat as executed.
   (B)   A subdivision application shall be granted final approval within 60
days of preliminary plat approval if the applicant has complied with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and all expressly stated conditions of
preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   If the City Council fails to grant final approval within the review
period and if the applicant has complied with this chapter and all expressly
stated conditions, the subdivision application shall be deemed finally
approved, and upon demand the City Clerk shall execute a certificate to that
effect.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.060 EFFECT OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   For 1 year following preliminary approval and for 2 years following final
approval, unless the subdivider and the city agree otherwise, no amendment to
the Comprehensive Plan, the Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision Ordinance or other
city ordinance shall apply to or affect the use, development density, lot size,
lot layout, or dedication or platting required or permitted by the approved
application. Thereafter, pursuant to this chapter the city may extend the
period by agreement with the subdivider subject to all applicable performance
conditions and requirements, or it may require submission of a new application
unless substantial physical activity and investment has occurred in reasonable
reliance on the approved application and the subdivider will suffer substantial
financial damage as a consequence of a requirement to submit a new application.
In connection with a subdivision involving planned and staged development, the
city may by resolution or agreement grant the rights referred to in this
section for such periods of time longer than 2 years which it determines to be
reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 150.075 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, in its review of a preliminary plat, will
take into consideration the requirements of the community and the best use of
the land being subdivided. particular attention will be given to the
arrangement, location and width of streets, general drainage situation, lot
sizes and arrangements, as well as Comprehensive Plan recommendations for
parks, school sites and streets, but not limited to these.
   (B)   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots, the parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
   (C)   All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot corners, road
intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall be marked with
durable iron or steel monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
The city may, when a subdivision is essentially complete, require a development
to have the plat restaked to replace the original monuments destroyed or
obliterated during the construction process.
   (D)   Storm sewers, culverts, storm water inlets, and other drainage
facilities will be required where they are necessary to insure adequate storm
water drainage for the subdivision. As a rule, the surface water discharge rate
from the subdivision is to be retained at the predevelopment rate for a 100
year, 24 hour storm event through the use of surface water detention/retention
facilities of other appropriate means as approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   In accordance with the design standards specified by the city every
street shall have an adequate sub-base and shall be improved with a bituminous
or concrete surface.
   (F)   Concrete curb and gutter shall be required before streets will be
paved.
   (G)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles. Where telephone,
electric and/or natural gas service lines are to be placed underground
entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated
public ways, in such manner so as not to conflict with other underground
services. All drainage and other underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
   (H)   Street lighting of a type approved by the city shall be required at
intersections and other locations.
   (I)   Street signs of standard design approved by the city shall be
installed at each street intersection.
   (J)   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private streets controlling
access to public ways shall not receive approval.
   (K)   The subdivider shall submit engineering plans and specifications
satisfactory to the city for all required improvements as listed or specified
in this chapter. These improvements must be initiated within 1 year of final
plat approval and completed within 2 years.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.076 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width and location of streets
shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan, the approved standard street sections
and all applicable ordinances, and shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and
safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be
served.
   (B)   Street right-of-way widths shall be adequate to serve the proposed use
and shall be designed according to current standards approved by the City
Engineer or other authorized agent of the city.
   (C)   All streets shall have concrete curb and gutter.
   (D)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.077 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be wide enough to accommodate the utility proposed and
whenever possible shall be centered on lot lines. Easements shall have
continuity of alignment from block to block and at deflection points.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage, channel
or stream, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially with the line of the watercourse shall be provided, together with
such further width for construction, or both, as will be adequate for the storm
water drainage of the area.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.078 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length shall not exceed 900 feet and shall not be less than 300
feet.
   (B)   Residential blocks shall normally be of sufficient width for 2 tiers
of lots.
   (C)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use shall be designated
as such.
§ 150.079 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All lots shall follow the lot area and lot width requirements and
setback standards for structures as required by the city zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Corner lots in any of the classes of residential districts shall have
extra width and sufficient depth for establishing a building setback on both
streets.
   (C)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to the
street line.
   (D)   Lots intended for commercial, industrial and multiple dwelling units
shall be designed as such and the lots must be of adequate size to allow off-
street parking, loading areas and such other facilities as are required to
satisfy the requirements of the Madison Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Lots abutting on a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width, as required to assure building sites that
are not subject to flooding.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.080 LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   All new subdivisions shall dedicate land for public use such as parks,
green area, playgrounds or other open space use according to the following
types of subdivision:
      (1)   Residential subdivision of up to 10 dwelling units per gross acre -
7% of the total gross area;
      (2)   Residential subdivision in excess of 10 dwelling units per gross
acre - 10% of the total gross area;
      (3)   Commercial and industrial subdivision - 5% of the gross area,
including green space dedicated to trees, grass, or shrubs to be maintained by
owner or parks or recreational development.
   (B)   When in the judgment of the Planning Commission, a subdivision is of
insufficient size to include an area for park, playground or other open space;
or an existing park, playground or open space area is located near or next to
the subdivision and can serve the public use needs of that subdivision, the
requirements of this section may be reduced or waived.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.081 MUNICIPAL SERVICES OF WATER AND SANITARY SEWER.
   All subdivision approved under this chapter shall be serviced with municipal
water and sanitary sewer as provided by the city. The extension of city water
and sanitary sewer may be approved by the City Council, provided that
subdivision is annexed. The subdivider shall be responsible for the entire cost
of extension, unless otherwise agreed to by the city and subdivider.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.095 GRANTING A VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the provisions
of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In recommending any variance, the Commission shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the protection of the
public interest. In making its findings, as required herein below, the Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner;
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
property is situated.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.096 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   A variance from the provisions of this chapter may be made when fulfilling
the purpose and requirements of the city’s planned unit development ordinance.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.097 CONFORMANCE TO ZONING.
   Final approval of any plat or registered land survey under the provisions of
this chapter shall not relieve the developer or property owner of any
obligation to meet all requirements contained in the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.098 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsible official. It shall be the duty of Zoning Administrator to
oversee the enforcement of this chapter. The Administrator shall take direction
from the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (B)   Building, land development, or zoning permit. No permit shall be
issued by any governing official for the construction of any buildings,
structures, or improvements on any land henceforth subdivided until all
requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
   (C)   Minor subdivisions. In the case of a subdivision of small size and
situated in a locality where conditions are well defined, the City Council may
exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the requirements stipulated.
In the case of a request to divide a lot which is part of a recorded plat where
the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or
to create 2 lots and the newly created property line will not cause the other
remaining portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter, section, or
subdivision of the Zoning Ordinance, the division may be approved by the
Council after submission of a survey and legal description showing the original
lot and the proposed division.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 150.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade, or offer to sell or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of lot as a part
of or in conformity with any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat, or
replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of
Lac qui Parle County.
   (B)   Receiving and recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats, or replats of land
laid out in building lots and highways, streets, roads, alleys, or other
portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use or for
the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto and
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision, or inspection of
improvements. It shall be unlawful for any subdivider, person, firm, or
corporation owning an addition or subdivision of land within the city to
represent that any improvement upon any of the highways, street, or alleys of
the addition or subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has
been constructed according to the plans and specifications approved by the City
Council or has been supervised or inspected by the city when the improvements
have not been so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation is allowed to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. Any owner or agent of an owner of land who
conveys a lot or parcel in violation of the provisions of this section shall
forfeit and pay to the city a penalty of not less than $100 for conveyance of
parcel so conveyed. A municipality may enjoin the conveyance or may recover the
penalty by a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-27-2004)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Intent and purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Rules of construction
   
151.005   Conflicting provisions; minimum requirements
   
151.006   Conformity with provisions
   
151.007   Zoning permits
   
151.008   Conditional uses, variances
General District Provisions
   
151.020   Establishment of Districts
   
151.021   Map
   
151.022   Annexation and detachment
   
151.023   Zoning district boundaries
   
151.024   District regulations
   
151.025   Setbacks
“A-O” Agriculture – Open Space District
   
151.040   Purpose
   
151.041   Special requirements
   
151.042   Permitted uses
   
151.043   Conditional uses
   
151.044   Accessory uses
   
151.045   Minimum lot size
   
151.046   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.047   Maximum building heights
“R-1" General Residential District
   
151.060   Purpose
   
151.061   Permitted uses
   
151.062   Conditional uses
   
151.063   Accessory uses
   
151.064   Minimum lot size
   
151.065   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.066   Maximum building heights
“R-2" Large Lot Residential District
   
151.080   Purpose
   
151.081   Permitted uses
   
151.082   Conditional uses
   
151.083   Accessory uses
   
151.084   Minimum lot size
   
151.085   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.086   Maximum building heights
“B-1" General Business District
   
151.100   Purpose
   
151.101   Special requirements
   
151.102   Permitted uses
   
151.103   Conditional uses
   
151.104   Accessory uses
   
151.105   Minimum lot size
   
151.106   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.107   Maximum building heights
“B-2" Downtown Business District
   
151.120   Purpose
   
151.121   Special requirements
   
151.122   Permitted, conditional and accessory uses
   
151.123   Minimum lot size
   
151.124   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.125   Maximum building heights
“I-1" General Industrial District
   
151.140   Purpose
   
151.141   Special requirements
   
151.142   Permitted uses
   
151.143   Conditional uses
   
151.144   Accessory uses
   
151.145   Minimum lot size
   
151.146   Front, side and rear yard requirements
   
151.147   Maximum building heights
   
151.148   Transitional yard requirements
   
151.149   Performance standards
   
151.150   Regulations on screening
Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
151.165   Purpose
   
151.166   Requirements
   
151.167   Revisions and/or changes
   
151.168   Phasing and guarantee of performance
   
151.169   Control of PUD following completion
   
151.170   Procedure for processing a PUD
Regulations
   
151.185   Purpose
   
151.186   Dwelling unit restrictions
   
151.187   Building restrictions
   
151.188   Yard requirements
   
151.189   Building size and architectural requirements
   
151.190   Accessory structures, uses and equipment
   
151.191   Land reclamation
   
151.192   Mining
   
151.193   Fencing, screening and landscaping
   
151.194   Nuisances and blight
   
151.195   Junk yards
   
151.196   Vision clearance at corners, curb cuts and railroad crossings
   
151.197   Performance standards
   
151.198   Lighting
   
151.199   Public waters alterations
   
151.200   Manufactured homes
   
151.201   Manufactured home parks
   
151.202   Home occupations
   
151.203   Signs
   
151.204   Parking requirements
   
151.205   Adult entertainment
   
151.206   Nonconforming buildings, structures and uses
   
151.207   Temporary family health care dwellings
Amendments and Conditional Use Permits
   
151.220   Procedure
   
151.221   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use
   
151.222   Amendments
   
151.223   Initiation of proceedings
   
151.224   Required exhibits for rezoning initiated by property owners
Variances and Appeals
   
151.235   Purpose
   
151.236   Procedures on variances
   
151.237   Standards for granting variances
   
151.238   Conditions and restrictions
   
151.239   Finding of fact
   
151.240   Appeals procedures
   
151.241   Lapse of variance or appeal
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.255   Administrating Officer
   
151.256   Duties of Administrator
   
151.257   Zoning permit
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “City of Madison Zoning Ordinance,”
except as referred to herein where it shall be known as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
general welfare of the city and its people through the establishment of minimum
regulations governing land development and use. This chapter shall divide the
city into use districts and establish regulations in regard to location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and
land. The regulations are established to provide adequate light, air and
convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the public right-
of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population; to provide for
compatibility of different land uses; to provide for administration of this
chapter; to provide for amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of the
regulations; to define powers and duties of the city staff, the Planning
Commission, and the City Council in relation to the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with or being separated from such a common
border by a right-of-way, alley or easement.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. An incidental subordinate building customarily
incidental to and located on the same lot occupied by the main use or building,
such as a detached garage.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use conducted on the same lot as the primary use of the
structure to which it is related; a use which is clearly incidental to, and
customarily found in connection with, such primary use.
   AGRICULTURE BUILDING. Any building used for an agricultural use.
   AGRICULTURAL USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of
produce on farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay; fruit
growing; tree, plant, shrub or flower nursery without building; truck
gardening; roadside stand for sale in season; and livestock raising and
feeding; but not including fur farms and commercial animal feed lots.
   ALLEY. A permanent service right-of-way which affords only a secondary means
of access from such right-of-way to abutting property and is not intended for
general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction, occupancy
or use.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the wording or substance of this chapter or a change
in the boundaries or classifications upon the Official Zoning Map.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. Any building or portion thereof which contains 3 or more
dwelling units and, for the purpose of this code, includes residential
condominiums.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Any obstruction which is not a natural obstruction.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR. An establishment primarily engaged in the repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers and similar large mechanical
equipment, including paint, body and fender and major engine and engine part
overhaul, provided it is conducted within a completely enclosed building.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR. An establishment primarily engaged in the repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers and similar mechanical equipment,
including brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire repair and change, lubrication,
tune-ups and transmission work, provided it is conducted within a completely
enclosed building.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used for the
display, sale or rental of new or used automobiles, trailers or trucks, where
no repair work is done except minor, incidental repair to vehicle for display.
Vehicles must be capable of operation under their own power at all times.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION. The portion of property where flammable or
combustible liquids or gases used as fuel are stored and dispersed from fixed
equipment into the fuel tanks or motor vehicles. Accessory activities may
include automotive repair and maintenance, car wash service and food sales.
   BASEMENT. Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY. A limited commercial activity, occurring within
any zone, conducted within a structure, which includes dining and bathroom
facilities with sleeping rooms for short-term guest lodging and for
compensation.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling containing a single dwelling unit and not more
than 10 guest rooms or suites of rooms, where lodging is provided with or
without meals, for compensation for more than one week.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure used solely for the storage of boats or boating
equipment.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance to be measured from the mean ground
level to the top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on
pitched or hip roof, to the deckline of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point
on other roof types.
   BUILDING LINE. The perimeter of that portion of a building or structure
nearest a property line, including overhangs but excluding open steps,
terraces, cornices and other ornamental features projecting from the walls of
the building or structure.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which the principal use of the site is
conducted.
   BUILDING, TEMPORARY. A building used temporarily for the storage for
construction materials and equipment incidental and necessary to on-site
permitted construction of utilities, or other community facilities, or used
temporarily in conjunction with the sale of property within a subdivision under
construction.
   BUILDING SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the building and
the specified lot line as prescribed in this chapter.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   CAMPGROUND. An area accessible by vehicle and containing campsites or
camping spurs for tent and trailer camping.
   CELLAR. Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE. A club or lodge is a non-profit association of persons who
are bona-fide members paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to
the serving of food and meals on such premises providing that adequate dining
room space and kitchen facilities are available. Serving of alcoholic beverages
to members and their guests shall be allowed, providing such serving is
secondary and incidental to the operation of the dining room for the purpose of
serving food and meals and providing further that such serving of alcoholic
beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal, state and municipal
laws.
   COMMERCIAL AGRICULTURAL. The use of land for the growing and/or production
of field crops, livestock and livestock products.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Bowling alley, cart track, golf, pool hall, vehicle
racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline, tavern, theater, firearms
range, boat rental, amusement rides, campgrounds, deer park, and similar uses
for which fees are charged for admission or use of the facility.
   COMMERCIAL USES. All permitted, conditional and accessory uses allowed in
the “B-1" and “B-2" Districts.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The declaration of purposes, policies and programs for
the development of the jurisdiction if so adopted; also called the General
Plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use, which because of special problems of control
requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extra-ordinary limitations
peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and the integrity
of the county’s Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as well as its compatibility with the
county’s Comprehensive Plan, as a flexibility device to enable the City Council
to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it after
consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special problems
which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 to
515.19, as they may be amended from time to time.
   CONGREGATE RESIDENCE. Any building or portion thereof which contains
facilities for living, sleeping and sanitation as required by this code, and
may include facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a
family. A congregate residence may be a shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory,
fraternity or sorority house but does not include jails, hospitals, nursing
homes, hotels or lodging houses.
   CONVALESCENT CENTER. A facility which is publicly or privately operated and
intended for long-term patient care due to human illness or infirmity,
including the elderly and developmentally disabled, normally employing the
services of skilled and licensed practitioners, excluding hospitals.
   COURT. A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on 3 or more sides by walls of a building.
   COVERAGE. Lot covered by principal and accessory use structures.
   DAY CARE - GROUP NURSERY. A service provided to the public, in which
children of school or pre-school age are cared for during established business
hours (M.S. §§ 245A.01 to 245A.18, as they may be amended from time to time).
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units which are allowed on an area of land,
which area of land may include dedicated streets contained within the
development.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. A business which is conducted under a single owner’s name
wherein a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are housed, enclosed
and are exhibited and sold directly to the customer for whom the goods and
services are furnished.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which products purchased from the establishment may be
consumed.
   DRIVEWAY. A private access road, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed, or otherwise using or visiting the parcel in which it is
located.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation,
for not more than one family.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX. A building designed or arranged to be occupied by 2
families living independently, the structure having only 2 dwelling units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by 3 or more families living independently in which they may or may
not share common entrances and/or other spaces. Individual dwelling units may
be owned as condominiums or offered for rent.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed for occupancy of
1 family.
   EASEMENT. That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
easement may be for use under, on or above the lot or lots.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or disposal system,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants or the similar equipment and accessories
in conjunction therewith.
   FAMILY. An individual or 2 or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption or a group of not more than 5 unrelated persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit.
   FARM. A tract of land 10 or more acres which is principally used for
commercial agriculture, all of which is owned and operated by a single family,
farm corporation, individual or corporation.
   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, FARM ANIMALS shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
   FARM DWELLING. A single family dwelling located on a farm which is used or
intended for use by the farm’s owner, a relative of the owner, or a person
employed thereof.
   FENCE. A barrier forming a boundary.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of
the building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
   GARAGE - PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the occupants at the building to which it is accessory.
All PRIVATE GARAGES shall be a minimum of 400 square feet.
   GARAGE - PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except as herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire
and which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to the
principal traffic.
   GOVERNING BODY. The governing body shall be defined as the City Council.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than 5 feet
from the building, between the building and a line 5 feet from the building.
   GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
   GREENBELT. A planned barrier consisting of dense vegetation used for the
purpose of separation and screening of land uses.
   GREENHOUSE. A building with a roof and walls of glass often heated and used
for growing flowers and plants that need warmth.
   GROWTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS. The goals, policies, programs, ordinances, and
regulations used to guide the city’s growth and development, if so adopted by
the city.
   GUEST ROOM. A room occupied by 1 or more guests for compensation and in
which no provision is made for cooking, but not including rooms in a dormitory
for sleeping purposes primarily.
   HABITABLE SPACE (ROOM). Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
space, and similar areas are not considered habitable space.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
family residing on the premises, provided that the use is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not
change the character of the dwelling.
   HOSPITAL. An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services primarily for
inpatients, and including as related facilities, laboratories, outpatient
departments, training facilities and staff offices, but not including clinics
or health-care centers.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Dogs, cats, rabbits, birds, for family use only
(noncommercial) with cages, pens, and the like.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. All permitted, conditional and accessory uses allowed in the
“I-1" District.
   JUNK YARD. Any location which is primarily for buying, selling, exchanging,
storing, baling, packing, disassembling, or handling waste or scrap materials,
including motor vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition, or
parts thereof, and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and glass.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by 1 principal building or use and its
accessory buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the
provisions of this chapter, having not less than the minimum area required by
this chapter for a building site in the district in which the lot is situated
and having its principal frontage on a street or a proposed street approved by
the Council.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described of record as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by
the city as a lot subsequent to such date and which is occupied by or intended
for occupancy by 1 principal building or principal use together with any
accessory buildings and such open spaces as required by this chapter and having
its principal frontage on a street or a proposed street approved by the
Council.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on 2 intersecting or intercepting streets, where
the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance measured between the front and rear
lot lines.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. In the case of an interior lot, the front of a lot shall be
that boundary abutting a public right-of-way; in the case of a corner lot, the
front of a lot shall be that boundary having the least frontage on a public
right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, IRREGULAR. A lot whose opposing property lines are generally not
parallel, such as a pie-shaped lot on a cul-de-sac, or where the side property
lines are not parallel to each other.
   LOT, LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separated
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley right-of-way.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on 2 parallel streets.
   LOT, REAR. A lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line and,
in the case of a triangular or gore-shaped lot, a line 10 feet in length within
the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
at right angles to the lot depth.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained in it, and which complies with the manufactured home building code
established by M.S. § 327.31, as may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which 2
or more occupied manufactured homes are located and includes any building,
structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the
equipment of the manufactured home park.
   MANUFACTURING - HEAVY. The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located. Manufacturing
activities associated with the "I-1" District.
   MANUFACTURING - LIGHT. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided the use
will not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibration or
other objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use is
located. Manufacturing activities associated with the "I-1" District.
   MINING OPERATION. The removal from the land of stone, sand and gravel, coal,
salt, iron, copper, nickel, granite, petroleum products or other material for
commercial, industrial, or governmental purposes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land developed and operated as a unit with
individual sites and facilities to accommodate 2 or more manufactured homes.
   MOTEL, HOTEL. Any building containing 6 or more guest rooms intended or
designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
   MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME. An establishment in which the dead are prepared for
burial or cremation. The facility may include a chapel for the conduct of
funeral services and spaces for funeral services and informal gatherings and/or
display of funeral equipment.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot whose width, area or other dimensions did not
conform to the regulations when this chapter became effective.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care is
provided for 2 or more invalids, infirm, aged convalescent or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family, but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, or similar institutions as defined by M.S. §
144.951, as may be amended from time to time.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley, or way,
in a building or on the lot for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of such size as to accommodate 1
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
   OPEN SPACE. Land areas that are not occupied by buildings, structures,
parking areas, streets, alleys or required yards. OPEN SPACE may be devoted to
landscaping, preservation of natural features, patios, and recreational areas
and facilities.
   PARCEL. A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by or
recorded as the property of the same person or persons.
   PARK. A public or private area of land, with or without buildings, intended
for outdoor active or passive recreational uses.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. A structure or an open area, other than a public
street or alley, designed or used for the temporary parking of automobiles and
available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
accommodation for customers or clients.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. A space located off any public right-of-way which
is adequate in size for parking of any automobile with room to get out on
either side of the vehicles, with adequate maneuvering space, and with access
to a public street or alley.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of the districts.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. A business which is neither the practice of a profession
nor dealing primarily with the sale of products as stock-in-trade on the
premises.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A residential or commercial development
guided by a total design plan in which 1 or more of the zoning or subdivision
regulations, other than use regulations, may be waived or varied to allow
flexibility and creativity in site and building design and location, in
accordance with general guidelines.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The planning agency of the city, designated by the City
Council.
   PLOT PLAN. A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing the actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and other such
information.
   PROFESSION. An occupation or calling requiring the practice of an art or
science through specialized knowledge based on a degree issued by an
institution of higher learning.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Work within dedicated right-of-way or easements.
   PUBLIC SERVICES. Uses operated by a unit of government to serve public
needs, such as police (with or without jail), fire service, ambulance, judicial
court or government offices, but not including public utility stations or
maintenance facilities.
   PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   RECREATION, INDOOR. An establishment providing completely enclosed
recreation activities. Accessory uses may include the preparation and serving
of food and beverages and/or the sale of equipment related to the enclosed
uses. Included in this definition shall be bowling, roller skating or ice
skating, billiards, pool, motion picture theaters, and related amusements.
   RECREATION, OUTDOOR. An area free of buildings except for restrooms,
dressing rooms, equipment storage, maintenance buildings, open-air pavilions,
and similar structures, used primarily for recreational activities.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA. Any area used on a daily, nightly, weekly or
longer basis for the accommodation of 3 or more units consisting of tents,
travel trailers and whether use of such accommodation is granted free of charge
or for compensation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, whose
gross floor area is less than 320 square feet, which is designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use, and which is either self-
propelled, mounted on or pulled by another vehicle. Examples include, but are
not limited to, a travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, motor home,
fifth-wheel trailer or van.
   RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL AND FRATERNAL ACTIVITY. A use or building owned or
maintained by organized religious organizations or nonprofit associations for
social, civic or philanthropic purposes, or the purpose for which persons
regularly assemble for worship.
   RENOVATION. Interior or exterior remodeling of a structure, other than
ordinary repair.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which provides food for on-premises
consumption.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A restaurant which serves food to customers seated in
vehicles.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any location whose primary use is where waste or scrap
materials are stored, bought, sold, accumulated, exchanged, packaged,
disassembled or handled, including, but not limited to, materials such as scrap
metals, paper, rags, tires and bottles.
   SCREENED. Concealed or cut off from visual access.
   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered trees.
   SETBACK. The minimum required distance between the property line and the
building line.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any system for the collection, treatment and
dispersion of sewage, including but not limited to septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, and drain fields.
   SHOPPING CENTER. An integrated grouping of commercial stores, under single
ownership or control.
   SIGN. An advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view
of the observer thereof for identification, advertisement or promotion of the
interests of any person, entity, product or service, including the sign
structure, supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features used to draw the attention of observers.
   SITE PLAN. A plan which outlines the use and development of any tract of
land.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   STORY. That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
   STREET. That portion of a public right-of-way or easement which is improved
to provide for the movement of motor vehicles.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A right-of-way or easement in private ownership, not
dedicated or maintained as a public street, which affords the principal means
of access to 2 or more sites.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to 1 or more streets. An
interior lot has 1 street frontage and a corner lot has 2 frontages.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground; an edifice or building of any kind; or any piece of
work artificially built up and/or composed of parts joined together in some
definite manner whether temporary or permanent in character, including decks
and signs, but not including fences or free standing walls less than 6 feet
high.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract, lot or parcel of land into 2 or more
lots, plats, sites or other divisions of land.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, above-ground
and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
   TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing 2 or more dwelling units of not more than 2
stories each and contiguous to each other only by sharing 1 common wall, such
structures to be of the town or row houses type as contrasted to multiple
dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain in excess of 8
dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual front
and rear entrances.
   TRAILER. A movable vehicle with wheels designed or used as living and
sleeping quarters or for business purposes, and such vehicles that have had the
wheels removed and been placed on a foundation. This definition includes
trailer coaches, trailer houses, and mobile homes.
   USE. The activity occurring on a lot or parcel for which land or a building
is arranged, designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be
occupied, including all accessory uses.
   USE, CHANGE OF. The change within the classified use of a structure or
premise.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time this code became effective, which has been lawfully continued and which
does not now conform with the use regulations.
   USEABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
useable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. The areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreation purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
useable open space.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary purpose or function that a lot serves or is
proposed to serve, as distinguished from an accessory use. A PRINCIPAL USE may
either be permitted or conditional.
   USE, TEMPORARY. A use that is authorized by this code to be conducted for a
fixed period of time. TEMPORARY USES are characterized by such activities as
the sale of agricultural products, contractors’ offices and equipment sheds,
fireworks, carnivals, flea markets and garage sales.
   VARIANCE. The means by which an adjustment is made in the application of the
specific regulations of a zoning ordinance to a particular piece of property,
which property, because of special circumstances applicable to it, is deprived
of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and
zone, and which adjustment remedies disparity in privileges.
   WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE OR STORAGE. A building or premises in which goods,
merchandise or equipment are stored for eventual distribution.
   WRECKING YARD. Any place where damaged, inoperable or obsolete machinery
such as cars, trucks and trailers, or parts thereof are stored, bought, sold,
accumulated, exchanged, disassembled or handled.
   YARD. An open, unoccupied space on a lot, other than a court, which is
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or structures except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum distance between the front lot line and building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and building line.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the building and
between the building line and the side lot line, or to the ordinary high water
line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual(s) appointed by the City Council
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The maps or map incorporated into this chapter as part thereof,
and as amended, designating the zoning district.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.004 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
   (C)   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive.
   (D)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   (E)   The words USED or OCCUPIED shall include within their meaning
"intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
   (F)   Any word or term not defined herein shall have the meaning indicated
by common dictionary definition or as defined elsewhere in the city code.
   (G)   Any act authorized by these regulations to be carried out by a
specific official or agency of the city is impliedly authorized to be carried
out by a designee of such official or agency.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.005 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by other
ordinances, rules or regulations of the city, the ordinance, rule or regulation
which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard or requirement shall
prevail. In the event of any conflict between this chapter with any private
restrictions, protections and covenants, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.006 CONFORMITY WITH PROVISIONS.
   No structure shall be erected, moved, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any
manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.007 ZONING PERMITS.
   Except as herein provided, no building, structure, premises or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no zoning permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.008 CONDITIONAL USES, VARIANCES.
   Nothing within this chapter shall be construed so as to deny and prohibit
the property owner the right to apply for a conditional use permit or variance.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
GENERAL DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 151.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning districts are hereby established within the city.
   A-O   Agricultural-Open Space District
   R-1   General Residential District
   R-2   Large Lot Residential District
   B-1   General Business District
   B-2   Downtown Business District
   I-1   General Industrial District
   PUD   Planned Unit Development
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.021 MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
set forth on the zoning maps entitled “Zoning Map,” a copy of which is on file
with the City Clerk. The maps and all of the notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set
forth herein and thereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.022 ANNEXATION AND DETACHMENT.
   (A)   In the event of changes in the city limits by adding or removing
territory from the city, district boundaries shall be constructed or removed by
moving the city limits.
   (B)   All territories which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be
considered as being the A-O - Agricultural-Open Space District until an
amendment to this chapter shall place annexed land in a different zoning
district.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.023 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, alleys, or railroad lines shall be construed to follow the
center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of change in shore line shall be
constructed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, lakes, or other
bodies of water shall be construed to follow the center lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the city limits shall
be construed as following the city limits.
   (E)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in a single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot may be interpreted by the Planning
Commission upon request of the owner.
   (F)   The exact location of all district boundaries shall be interpreted by
the Planning Commission, subject to appeal as provided in §§
151.235 to 151.241.
   (G)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official
action of the City Council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of the
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
the vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and hence forth
be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.024 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of this chapter within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure of
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   No buildings, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   No buildings or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed the height or bulk, to accommodate or house a greater number of
families, to occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or
smaller rear, front, or side yards, or other open spaces than herein required
or in any other manner contrary to the provision of this chapter.
   (C)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.025 SETBACKS.
   All setbacks will be measured from the owner’s property line. The owner’s
property line is determined from the locations of the most adjacent street
right-of-way which is based on the individual street width.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“A-O” AGRICULTURE – OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
§ 151.040 PURPOSE.
   The Agricultural - Open Space District is intended to provide a district
which will allow suitable areas of the city to be retained and utilized in open
space and/or agricultural uses, prevent, scattered non-farm uses from
developing improperly, promote orderly development, and secure economy in
government expenditures for public utilities and service.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.041 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Agricultural uses are subject to Minnesota Pollution Control Standards and
Lac qui Parle County feedlot regulations.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.042 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Agricultural activities for the growing of produce (field crop
farming) and farm dwellings, but not including commercial feed lots and the
raising of farm animals. For commercial feedlot regulations, see Lac qui Parle
Feedlot Ordinance;
   (B)   Golf courses, county clubs, tennis courts, swimming pools and
additional public and private recreational uses, all non-commercial;
   (C)   Roadside stands for the sale of agricultural products;
   (D)   Greenhouses or nurseries.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.043 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Parks;
   (B)   Radio and television transmitting and receiving stations and antennae;
   (C)   Public and private schools;
   (D)   Public and private cemeteries;
   (E)   Commercial recreational facilities;
   (F)   Churches, parish houses, convents, child nurseries;
   (G)   Planned Unit Developments as regulated by this chapter;
   (H)   Agriculture buildings or structures over 35 feet in height;
   (I)   Public services and uses.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.044 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   Operation and storage of such vehicles, equipment, and machinery which
are incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district;
   (B)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
   (C)   Home occupations consistent with this chapter;
   (D)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
151.193;
   (E)   Essential services.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.045 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   A lot area of 10 or more acres for each farm or non-farm dwelling unit
is required.
   (B)   A lot width of not less than 150 feet is required for each farm or
non-farm dwelling unit.
   (C)   A lot depth of not less than 150 feet is required.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.046 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. For all buildings and structures, a front yard of not less
than 30 feet is required.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, 2 side yards are required
each having a width of not less than 25 feet.
      (2)   A side yard of not less than 10 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more streets,
the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 30 feet for
all buildings and structures.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, a rear yard of not less
than 25 feet is required.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be less than 10 feet from
the rear lot line.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.047 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights shall not exceed 35 feet except for agricultural buildings
with a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“R-1" GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 151.060 PURPOSE.
   The General Residential District is intended to establish an area of
residential uses consisting of one and two family dwellings and multiple-unit
dwellings.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.061 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Single family dwellings if on lots of such areas and widths as
hereinafter required;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings if on lots of such areas and widths as
hereinafter required;
   (C)   Multiple-dwelling structures consistent with the surrounding land uses
and in conformance with the minimum lot dimensions and setback requirements as
hereinafter required;
   (D)   Non-commercial gardening;
   (E)   Public buildings and uses of the following kinds: parks, playgrounds;
   (F)   Manufactured homes on individually owned parcels of land, built in
conformance with the manufactured home building code and in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Apartments within existing single family dwellings.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.062 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Cemeteries, public services and uses, hospitals, sanitariums, homes
for the aged and similar institutions and institutions of special education or
charitable nature when required for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (B)   Churches, parish houses, convents, licensed child nurseries/daycare
centers;
   (C)   Golf courses, county clubs, tennis courts, swimming pools and
additional private and private-club recreational uses, all non-commercial;
   (D)   The extension of a use into a district where it would otherwise be
prohibited, in a case where a district boundary line is so located that a lot
is in more than one district;
   (E)   Boarding and lodging houses;
   (F)   Outdoor furnaces or boilers of any size or type when used in
conjunction with the heating of adjacent interior spaces or the heating of
domestic hot water used within such spaces. This shall include all furnaces not
completely enclosed on all sides by the exterior building envelop walls;
   (G)   Planned Unit Developments as regulated by this chapter;
   (H)   Private garages or storage sheds exceeding 1,200 sq. ft.;
   (I)   Manufactured home park, subject to issuance of a license from the
State Department of Health (M.S. § 327.15, as may be amended from time to time)
and subject to the requirements of §
151.201;
   (J)   Bed and breakfast facility;
   (K)   Mortuary, funeral home;
   (L)   Clinics and medical and dental offices in conformance with all
requirements of the R-1 District.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.063 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   Private garages of 1,200 square feet or less, parking spaces as
regulated by §
151.204;
   (B)   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (C)   Non-commercial greenhouses;
   (D)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities which
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests;
   (E)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment;
   (F)   Essential services;
   (G)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
151.193;
   (H)    Home occupations consistent with §
151.202;
   (I)   Gazebos and similar structures;
   (J)   Pet shelters, pens, runs, cages, houses and kennels; for non-
commercial use and accessory to the residential use.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.064 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   For one and two family dwellings, a lot area of not less than 7,000
square feet is required.
   (B)   For one and two family, a lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet at
the front yard setback line and a minimum depth of 140 feet.
   (C)   Multiple-dwelling units having 4 or less dwelling units must have a
minimum lot area of 14,000 square feet. Not less than 1,500 square feet is
required for each additional dwelling unit over 4.
   (D)   A lot width of not less than 100 feet and a lot depth of not less than
140 feet is required for multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.065 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yards.
      (1)   For all buildings and structures, a front yard of not less than 20
feet is required.
      (2)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each front yard
shall be an additional front yard setback of 1 foot for each 1 foot that the
building exceeds the height of 35 feet.
   (B)   Side yards.
      (1)   For single story principal buildings and structures, two-side yards
are required, each with a width of not less than 7 feet.
      (2)    For 2 or more story principal buildings and structures, 2 side
yards are required, each with a width of not less than 10 feet.
      (3)   A side yard of not less than 5 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
      (4)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each side yard shall
have 1 additional foot for each 1 foot of building height over 35 feet.
      (5)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than ten feet for
all buildings and structures.
   (C)   Rear yards.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, a rear yard with a depth of
not less than 25 feet is required.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be less than 5 feet from
the rear lot line.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004; Am. Ord. 368, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.066 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Except for multiple-dwelling units, building heights shall not exceed 35
feet. Building heights for multiple-dwelling units shall not exceed 3 stories
or 45 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“R-2" LARGE LOT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 151.080 PURPOSE.
   The Large Lot Residential District is intended to establish an area of
residential uses consisting of single-family dwellings and directly related
complimentary uses. District regulations are designed to maintain low density
residential uses and restrict incompatible development.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.081 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   One-family dwelling unit with a minimum exterior footprint size of
1,200 square feet not including a garage;
   (B)   Noncommercial gardening;
   (C)   Public buildings and uses of the following kinds: parks, playgrounds.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.082 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Churches, parish houses, licensed child nurseries/daycare centers;
   (B)   Public services and uses;
   (C)   The extension of a use into a district where it would otherwise be
prohibited, in a case where a district boundary line is so located that a lot
is in more than one district;
   (D)   Planned Unit Developments as regulated by this chapter;
   (E)   Private garages or storage sheds exceeding 1,200 sq. ft.;
   (F)   Private or public golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts, and
swimming pools.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.083 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   Private garages of 1,200 square feet or less and parking spaces as
regulated by §
151.204;
   (B)   Outdoor storage of recreation vehicles and equipment;
   (C)   Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories;
   (D)   Swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities which
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests;
   (E)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment;
   (F)   Essential services;
   (G)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
151.193;
   (H)    Home occupations consistent with §
151.202;
   (I)   Gazebos and similar structures;
   (J)   Pet shelters, pens, runs, cages, houses and kennels; for noncommercial
use and accessory to the residential use.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.084 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   A lot area of not less than 15,000 square feet is required.
   (B)   A lot shall have a minimum width of 100 feet at the front yard setback
line and a minimum depth of 150 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.085 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yards.
      (1)   For all buildings and structures, a front yard of not less than 20
feet is required.
      (2)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each front yard
shall be an additional front yard setback of 1 foot for each 1 foot that the
building exceeds the height of 35 feet.
   (B)   Side yards.
      (1)   For single story principal buildings and structures, 2 side yards
are required, each with a width of not less than 7 feet.
      (2)    For 2 or more story principal buildings and structures, 2 side
yards are required, each with a width of not less than 10 feet.
      (3)   A side yard of not less than 5 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
      (4)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each side yard shall
have 1 additional foot for each 1 foot of building height over 35 feet.
      (5)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more streets,
the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than ten feet for
all buildings and structures.
   (C)   Rear yards.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, a rear yard with a depth of
not less than 25 feet is required.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be less than 5 feet from
the rear lot line.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004; Am. Ord. 368, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 151.086 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights shall not exceed 35 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“B-1" GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 151.100 PURPOSE.
   The General Business District is designed and intended to serve the highway
areas of the city. The “B-1" District will provide for a retail and commercial
business environment, especially stressing the use of automobiles to access
businesses.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.101 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Every use, unless expressly exempted in this section or allowed by a
conditional use permit, shall operate in its entirety within a completely
enclosed structure, fenced or screened area. Parking and/or commercial storage
of vehicles need not be enclosed.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.102 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Antique store;
   (B)   Apparel and accessory store;
   (C)   Appliance store, sales and service;
   (D)   Art gallery;
   (E)   Artist studio or school;
   (F)   Auction rooms;
   (G)   Auto, glass, muffler and upholstery shop;
   (H)   Auto parts and accessory sales, including outdoor display of auto
accessories, provided that the outdoor display of storage is separated from
abutting development by ornamental fencing or screen planting to be not less
than 8 feet in height;
   (I)   Auto repair garage;
   (J)   Auto storage, new or used;
   (K)   Auto sales;
   (L)   Bakery retail;   
   (M)   Bank, including drive in bank;
   (N)   Barbershop;
   (O)   Beauty shop;
   (P)   Bicycle sales and repair;
   (Q)   Blueprinting, photostating and lithographing;
   (R)   Boat sales and repair, not including dismantling or wrecking;
   (S)   Book store;
   (T)   Bowling alley and billiard parlor;
   (U)   Building material yard;
   (V)   Bus, railway, or airline depot or ticket office;
   (W)   Business machines store;
   (X)   Café;
   (Y)   Camera and photographic supply store;
   (Z)   Candy, ice cream and confectionery store, in which all manufacturing
permitted only as an accessory use and is limited to 15% of the gross floor
area;
   (AA)   Catalog and mail-order house;
   (BB)   Caterer;
   (CC)   Clothing store;
   (DD)   Dairy products store;
   (EE)   Dance hall;
   (FF)   Delicatessen store;
   (GG)   Department store;
   (HH)   Discount store;
   (II)   Dressmaking, seamstress;
   (JJ)   Drugstore;
   (KK)   Dry cleaning;
   (LL)   Electric contractor;
   (MM)   Exterminator;
   (NN)   Feed store;
   (OO)   Floral sales;
   (PP)   Food locker plant: a food locker plant renting only individual
lockers for home customer storage of food, including sale of retail, delivery
of individual home orders and the cutting and packaging of meats or game, but
not including slaughtering or eviscerating thereof;
   (QQ)   Fruit store;
   (RR)   Furniture store and home furnishings;
   (SS)   Garden supplies store, need not be enclosed, provided all unenclosed
portions of the use are located on the rear ½ of the zoning lot;
   (TT)   Gift, novelty or souvenir store;
   (UU)   Grocery store;
   (VV)   Gunsmith;
   (WW)   Hall, renting for meetings, conventions, or social gatherings;
   (XX)   Hardware store;
   (YY)   Health equipment and supply store;
   (ZZ)   Health club or gym;
   (AAA)   Hotel, motel, or tourist home;
   (BBB)   Ice plant;
   (CCC)   Interior decorator;
   (DDD)   Janitorial service;
   (EEE)   Jewelry store;
   (FFF)   Laboratory, scientific and testing;
   (GGG)   Laundromat;
   (HHH)   Linen supply;
   (III)   Liquor store (off sale);
   (JJJ)   Locksmith;
   (KKK)   Luggage store;
   (LLL)   Lumber yard;
   (MMM) Marine sales and service;    
   (NNN)   Meat market and processing, not including slaughtering;
   (OOO)   Medical appliances, sales and fittings;.
   (PPP)   Mortuary, funeral home;
   (QQQ)   Motorcycle store;
   (RRR)   Music store;
   (SSS)   Newsstand;
   (TTT)   Office of any type;
   (UUU)   Optical goods;
   (VVV)   Optician;
   (WWW) Paint and wallpaper store;
   (XXX)   Pawn shop;
   (YYY)   Pet store;
   (ZZZ)   Photographic studio, picture processing, or equipment;
   (AAAA)   Plumbing contractor;
   (BBBB)   Printing, publishing, and allied industries;
   (CCCC)   Restaurants;
   (DDDD)   Savings and loan association; state or federally chartered;
including drive in facilities;
   (EEEE)   Second hand shops;
   (FFFF)   Shoe repair shop;
   (GGGG)   Shopping mall, centers;
   (HHHH)   Sign contractor;
   (IIII)   Sporting good store;
   (JJJJ)   Stationery store;
   (KKKK)   Tailor;
   (LLLL)   Taxidermist;
   (MMMM)   Telephone exchange;
   (NNNN)   Theater, not including drive in theater;
   (OOOO)   Theatrical studio;
   (PPPP)   Ticket agency;
   (QQQQ)   Tire recapping and supply store;
   (RRRR)   Toy store;
   (SSSS)   Travel bureau or agency;
   (TTTT)   Upholstery shop of any type;
   (UUUU)   Variety store;
   (VVVV)   Veterinarian, including observation kennels for household pets,
provided however, all such kennels are contained within completely enclosed
structures;
   (WWWW)   Wholesale offices;
   (XXXX)   Adult uses - Accessory and in compliance with §
151.205.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.103 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Any drive-in type establishment;
   (B)   Apartments;
   (C)   Auto sales;
   (D)   Automobile service stations;
   (E)   Car wash;
   (F)   Clinic, dental or medical, animal clinics, and related laboratories;
   (G)   Community or convention center;
   (H)   Planned Unit Developments as regulated by this chapter;
   (I)   Public, private parking facilities;
   (J)   Public or quasi public development;
   (K)   Public services and uses;
   (L)   Radio and television broadcasting, including transmitter;
   (M)   Restaurants, cocktail lounges and other eating or drinking
establishments which require additional parking spaces;
   (N)   Shipping and storage of merchandise solely intended to be retailed by
the established principal permitted use;
   (O)   Shopping centers and malls;
   (P)   Sports arena or stadium;.
   (Q)   Other retail and commercial uses determined by the City Council to be
of the same general character as identified permitted and conditional uses and
found not to be detrimental to the general public health and welfare.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.104 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory to
the principal use;
   (B)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated by this
chapter;
   (C)   Essential services;
   (D)   Day care shall be permitted within the B-1 District only if accessory
to and necessary for a principal business use.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.105 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   A lot area of not less than 7,000 square feet is required.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.106 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yards.
      (1)   For all buildings and structures, a front yard of not less than 20
feet is required.
      (2)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each front yard
shall be an additional front yard setback of 1 foot for each 1 foot that the
building exceeds the height of 35 feet.
   (B)   Side yards.
      (1)   For single story principal buildings and structures, two-side yards
are required, each with a width of not less than 7 feet.
      (2)   For 2 or more story principal buildings and structures, 2 side
yards are required, each with a width of not less than 10 feet.
      (3)   A side yard of not less than 5 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
      (4)   For all buildings exceeding 35 feet in height, each side yard shall
have 1 additional foot for each 1 foot of building height over 35 feet.
      (5)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more streets,
the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 20 feet for
all buildings and structures.
   (C)   Rear yards.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, a rear yard with a depth of
not less than 25 feet is required.
      (2)   No accessory building or structure shall be less than 5 feet from
the rear lot line.
      (3)   The lot line located in the B-1 District adjacent to a residential
district shall erect a fence or vegetative screening at a height determined by
the Zoning Administrator that will sufficiently screen business activities from
the adjacent residential district. The fence or screening shall be located
along the entire length of the transitional lot line.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.107 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights shall not exceed 3 stories or 45 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“B-2" DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 151.120 PURPOSE.
   The Downtown Business District is designed and intended to serve the
pedestrian areas of the city and those older retail and commercial areas
located in what is considered the Downtown Business District. The “B-2"
District will provide for a retail and commercial business environment,
especially stressing the pedestrian function and interaction of people and
businesses.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.121 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Every use, unless expressly exempted in this section or allowed by
conditional use permit, shall operate in its entirety within a completely
enclosed structure, fenced or screened area.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.122 PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES.
   The permitted, conditional and accessory uses in the B-2 District shall be
the same as the permitted, conditional and accessory uses in the B-1 District.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.123 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   A lot area of not less than 3,500 square feet is required.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.124 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No side and front yards are required except as provided below. In all cases
a 20 foot rear yard is required for parking and lot access.
   (A)   Where a side lot coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent
residential district, a yard shall be provided along the side lot line. The
yard shall not be less than the minimum side yard which would be required under
this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
   (B)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line in an adjacent
residential district, a yard shall be provided along such rear lot line. The
yard shall not be less than the minimum side yard which would be required under
this chapter for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
   (C)   Where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line in an adjacent
residential district, a yard shall be not less than the minimum required for
the rear yard for a residential use on the adjacent residential lot.
   (D)   The lot line located in the B-2 District adjacent to a residential
district shall erect a fence or vegetative screening at a height determined by
the Zoning Administrator that will sufficiently screen business activities from
the adjacent residential district. The fence or screening shall be located
along the entire length of the transitional lot line.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.125 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights shall not exceed 3 stories or 45 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
“I-1" GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 151.140 PURPOSE.
   The General Industrial District is established to provide for areas for
manufacturing, warehousing and related commercial operations. It will be the
intent to encourage industrial development which is compatible with surrounding
uses and districts. All activities in the district shall be carried on in a
manner not injurious or offensive to the occupants of adjacent premises due to
odors, dust, smoke, noise or vibrations. Whenever possible, this District
should be separated from residential districts by natural or structural
boundaries such as drainage channels, strips of vegetation, roads and similar
features.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.141 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any unenclosed uses, including storage, manufacturing and assembly, shall be
subject to those regulations set forth by of this subchapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.142 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses.
   (A)   Manufacturing. Any manufacturing use or process, including repairs,
assembling, fabricating, altering, converting, finishing, processing, treating,
testing, packaging or bottling, except any use or process hereinafter
specifically excluded or which would not be in keeping with the purpose of the
District.
   (B)   Warehousing, storage and wholesaling. The storage, handling, assembly
and distribution of goods and materials for retail, wholesale, or on-site use,
except for the handling, in quantity, of packaged or bulk hazardous combustible
materials and/or flammable liquids or gases. The determination of "hazardous"
materials shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.143 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Uses listed as permitted, conditional and accessory in the B-
1 District;
   (B)   Mining and related activities associated with the extraction and
processing of sand, gravel, and other materials from the land;
   (C)   Planned Unit Developments as regulated by this chapter;
   (D)   Junk yards, salvage yards or wrecking yards in conformance with this
chapter;
   (E)   Adult Uses - principle in conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.144 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are permitted accessory uses:
   (A)   Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory to
the principal use;
   (B)   Off-street parking as regulated by this chapter;
   (C)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated by this
chapter;
   (D)   Day care shall be permitted within the I-1 District only if accessory
to and necessary for a principal industrial use.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.145 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   A lot area of not less than 20,000 square feet is required.
   (B)   All planned unit developments shall only be permitted on an area of at
least 1 acre.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.146 FRONT, SIDE AND REAR YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard. For all buildings and structures, there shall be a front
yard having a depth of not less than 30 feet between building and the street
right-of-way line to be devoted exclusively to landscaping except for necessary
points of access.
   (B)   Side yard.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, 2 side yards are required,
each with a width of not less than 20 feet.
      (2)   A side yard of not less than 10 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more streets,
the width of the yard along the side street shall not be less than 30 feet for
all buildings and structures.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   For principal buildings and structures, a rear yard with a depth of
not less than 25 feet is required.
      (2)   A rear yard of not less than 15 feet is required for accessory
buildings and structures.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.147 MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHTS.
   Building heights shall not exceed 3 stories or 45 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.148 TRANSITIONAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   When any lot line coincides with a lot line of an adjacent residential
district, the setback shall be at least 30 feet.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.149 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to provide that industry and
related activities shall be established and maintained with proper appearance
from streets and adjoining properties and to provide that each such permitted
use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by the control of the
following.
   (B)   Noise. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat, frequency, shrillness or intensity.
At the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated continuously
from a facility shall not exceed the values given in the table herein.
   Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Levels
Band Cycles per Second (Frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Band Cycles per Second (Frequency) Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20-75                              72
75-100                             67
100-300                            59
300-600                            52
600-1200                           46
1200-2400                          40
2400-4800                          34
Over 4800                          32
 
   (C)   Odor. No activity or operation shall cause at any time the discharge
of toxic, noxious or odorous matter beyond the limits of the immediate site
where it is located in such concentrations as to be obnoxious or otherwise
detrimental to, or endanger the public health, welfare, comfort or safety or
cause injury to property or business.
   (D)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights,
spotlights or high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general
illumination, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line.
   (E)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illuminations shall be
directed away from adjacent properties.
   (F)   Smoke, dust, fumes or gases. Every operation shall conform to MPCA and
EPA standards.
   (G)   Hazard. Every operation shall be carried on in accordance with local
fires & safety codes.
   (H)   Water supply. The design and construction of water supply facilities
and water supply source shall be in accordance with local and Minnesota State
Department of Health and Minnesota Pollution Control Agency standards and
requirements.
   (I)   Waste. All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
in such manner as to comply with Minnesota State Department of Health and
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency standards and requirements and local codes.
   (J)   Investigations and tests. In order to assure compliance with the
performance standards set forth above, the Planning Commission may require the
owner or operator of any permitted use to make such investigations and tests as
may be required to show adherence to the performance standards.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.150 REGULATIONS ON SCREENING.
   All new buildings and structures as of the date of this chapter, except
business signs, which are adjoining or situated within 50 feet of a residential
district, shall be screened and buffered from the district by a separation of
open space which shall have a minimum depth of 30 feet and a required fence or
vegetative screening of not less than 8 feet in height above the level of the
residential district property at the district boundary. Walls, fences, or
planting screens of lesser heights may be permitted if there is a finding that
the nature or extent of the use being screened is such that a lesser degree of
screen will as adequately promote and protect the use enjoyment of the
properties within the adjacent residential district, or there is a finding that
a screening of the type required by this chapter would interfere with the
provision of adequate amounts of light and air to same said properties. All
required screening devices shall be designed so that they are architecturally
harmonious with the principal structures on the site, and they shall be
properly maintained so as not to become unsightly, hazardous, or less opaque
than when originally constructed.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD)
§ 151.165 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To help encourage a more credible approach to the use of land,
departures from this chapter may be granted by the City Council in Planned Unit
Development Districts. A planned unit development is allowable as a conditional
use in all zoning districts. Permission to develop specific parcels of land
under the provisions which follow shall be binding on all construction. Any
significant change in the development plan after approval by the City Council
shall be resubmitted for consideration. The land use, minimum lot area, yard,
height and accessory used determined by the planned unit development
requirements shall prevail over conflicting requirements listed elsewhere
within this chapter.
   (B)   It is the intent of the PUD District to promote:
      (1)   Preservation of productive land for agriculture use;
      (2)   Preservation of wildlife habitat and unique natural resources;
      (3)   Reduction of negative impacts on the environment;
      (4)   Creation of common open space that provided a unified landscape for
the use and enjoyment of the neighborhood community and/or the general public;
      (5)   A variety of residential lot sizes, configurations and
neighborhoods.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.166 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The tract of land shall be under unified control at the time of
application and scheduled to be developed as one unit. In addition, the
development plan must include provisions for the preservation of natural
amenities.
   (B)   The planned unit development proposal appears to harmonize with both
existing and proposed development in the area surrounding the project site and
is in harmony with development plans provided in the city’s comprehensive land
use plan.
   (C)   The proposed planned unit development is comprised of at least 1 acre
of contiguous land.
   (D)   Permitted uses may include:
      (1)   Permitted, accessory and conditional uses allowed within the
traditional zoning district where the proposed PUD is to be located;
      (2)   A combination of dwelling units of single family, two family, town
houses, condominiums and apartments;
      (3)   Any nonresidential use to the extent such nonresidential use is
designed and intended to serve the residents of the PUD.
   (E)   A minimum of 20% of the gross land area for private or public open air
recreational use protected by covenants running with the land or by conveyances
or dedicated as the Planning Commission may specify shall be an integral part
of the plan. The open space areas shall not include land devoted to streets,
parking and private yards.
   (F)   Spacing between main buildings and dedicated streets shall be at least
equivalent to the spacing requirements of buildings similarly developed under
the terms of this chapter on separate parcels.
   (G)   If a PUD involves the subdivision of land, then the subdivision review
shall be carried out simultaneously with the review of a PUD under this section
of this chapter. The plans required in the PUD ordinance shall be submitted in
a form which will satisfy the requirements of the City of Madison Subdivision
Ordinance for the preliminary plat and final plat.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.167 REVISIONS AND/OR CHANGES.
   (A)   Minor changes such as the location, placement and height of structures
may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if required by engineering or
other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was approved and
filed with the City Council.
   (B)   Changes in uses, significant changes in location, size, or height of
structures, any rearrangement of lots, blocks and building tracts, changes in
provision of common open spaces and all other changes to the approved final
development plan may be made only after a public hearing conducted by the City
Council. Upon determination by the staff development review committee that a
major change has been proposed, the applicant shall apply for an amended PUD.
The application to amend the PUD shall be treated as a new zoning application.
Upon acceptance of a complete application, the Planning Commission shall hold a
hearing and make a recommendation to the City Council. Any changes shall be
recorded as amendments to the recorded copy of the final development plan.
   (C)   All of the provisions of the article applicable to the original
district within which the planned unit development district is established
shall apply to the amended PUD District except as otherwise provided in
approval of the PUD agreement and final development plan. The effective date of
the PUD shall be after:
      (1)   Approval of the PUD zoning amendment; and
      (2)   Publication of the ordinance approving the PUD.
   (D)   If substantial development has not occurred within 1 year after
approval of the PUD zoning district, the City Council may instruct the Planning
Commission to initiate rezoning to the original zoning district. It shall not
be necessary for the City Council to find that the rezoning was in error.
   (E)   Within the PUD agreement, the city may authorize the scheduling of
periodic reviews, to occur upon the determination of the Zoning Administrator
that a need for review exists, to ascertain that actual development on the site
meets the conditions of the approved PUD.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.168 PHASING AND GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall compare the actual development
accomplished in the various PUD zones with the approved development schedule.
   (B)   Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and for good cause
shown by the property owner, the City Council may extend the limits of the
development schedule.
   (C)   The construction and provision of all of the common open space and
public and recreational facilities, which are shown on the final development
plan, must proceed at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units, if
any. The Zoning Administrator shall review all of the building permits issued
for the PUD and examine the construction that has taken place on the site. If
they find that the rate of construction of dwelling units is greater than the
rate at which common open spaces and public and recreational facilities have
been constructed and provided, they shall forward this information to the City
Council for action.
   (D)   A performance bond or letter of credit may be required to guarantee
performance by the developer. The amount of this bond or letter of credit and
the specific elements of the development program that it is intended to
guarantee will be stipulated in the PUD agreement.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.169 CONTROL OF PUD FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
   (A)   Following PUD completion, the use of the land and the construction,
modification or alteration of any buildings or structures within the planned
development shall be governed by the final development plan.
   (B)   Following PUD completion, no changes shall be made in the approved
final development plan except upon application as provided below.
      (1)   Any minor extensions, alterations or modifications of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the staff development review
committee if they are consistent with the purposes and intent of the final
plan.
      (2)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the final development
plan unless an amendment to the final development plan is approved.
      (3)   Changes in the use of the common open spaces may be authorized by
an amendment to the final development plan after a public hearing by the
Planning Commission and recommendation to the City Council.
      (4)   Any other changes in the final development plan must be authorized
by an amendment of the final development plan.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.170 PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A PUD.
   (A)   Application conference. Before filing of an application for a PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a conference with
the Zoning Administrator. The primary purpose of the conference shall be to
provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather information and obtain
guidance as to the general as to the general suitability of the applicant’s
proposal for the area for which it is proposed and its conformity to the
provisions of this subchapter before incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of plans, surveys and other date.
   (B)   Sketch plan. The sketch plan provides an opportunity for an applicant
to submit an informal plan to the city showing the applicant’s basic intent and
general nature of the development. The sketch plan is intended to provide
feedback from the Planning Commission before the applicant incurs substantial
cost in the preparation of formal plans. The sketch plan shall be considered a
partial, incomplete application prior to formal submittal of the complete
application and scheduling of hearings.
   (C)   Preliminary development plan. The purpose of a preliminary development
plan is to formally present a planned unit development and preliminary plat
application in a public hearing before the Planning Commission. The plan shall
include the following:
      (1)   A description of proposed land uses for the PUD;
      (2)   Overall maximum PUD density range;
      (3)   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways;
      (4)   General location and extent of public and common and open space;
      (5)   General location of residential and nonresidential land uses with
approximate type of intensities;
      (6)   Staging and time schedule of development;
      (7)   Other special criteria for development, which may include, but is
not limited to, preliminary landscape plans and conceptual architectural plans.
   (D)   Schedule.
      (1)   The developer shall meet with the Zoning Administrator to discuss
the proposed preliminary development plan.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the preliminary development plan
application and preliminary plat, together with all supporting data.
      (3)   Within 30 days after verification by the Zoning Administrator that
the required plan and supporting data is adequate, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the hearing
shall consist of a legal property description, description of request, and be
published in the official newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing and
written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at least 10 days prior
thereto to owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in
question.
      (5)   The city may request additional information from the applicant
concerning operational factors or retain expert testimony at the expense of the
applicant.
      (6)   The City Council may hold a public hearing after the receipt of the
report and recommendations from the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within 60 days after the receipt of the
application, then the City Council may proceed without with report. The City
Council may approve the preliminary development plan and attach such additional
conditions as it deems reasonable. Approval shall require a majority vote of
the entire City Council.
      (7)   After the preliminary development plan approval by the City
Council, the PUD zoning ordinance map amendment shall be published, with
reference made to the PUD agreement text. The city shall be responsible for
recording the ordinance and PUD agreement with the County Recorder’s office,
with all associated fees and costs to be incurred by the applicant, prior to
issuance of any building permit or within 60 days, whichever is less. The
official PUD ordinance and agreement shall also be filed in the City Clerk’s
office.
   (E)   Applications. Three copies of the following exhibits, analysis and the
plans shall be submitted to the city (preliminary development plan):
      (1)   Preliminary plat and information required by the Madison
subdivision ordinance;
      (2)   General information:
         (a)   The landowner’s name and address and the landowner’s interest in
the subject property;
         (b)   The applicant’s name and address if different from the
landowner;
         (c)   The names and addresses of all professional consultants who have
contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
attorney, land planner, engineer and surveyor;
         (d)   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up-to-date certified abstract of title or
registered property report and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
      (3)   Present status:
         (a)   The address and legal description of the property;
         (b)   The existing zoning classification and present use of the
subject property and all lands within 1,000 feet of the property;
         (c)   A map depicting the existing development of the property and all
land within 1,000 feet of the property and indicating the location of existing
streets, property liens, easements, water mains and storm and sanitary sewers,
with invert elevations on and within 100 fee of the property;
         (d)   A written statement generally describing the proposed PUD and
the market which it is intended to serve and its demand showing its
relationship to the city’s Comprehensive Plan and how the proposed PUD is to be
designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable regulations of the city;
         (e)   Graphic reproductions of the existing site conditions at a scale
of 1 inch equals 100 feet.
            1.   Contours; minimum 2 foot intervals.
            2.   Location, type and extent of tree cover.
            3.   Slope analysis.
            4.   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands, streams, and
floodplains within 300 feet of the property.
            5.   Significant rock outcroppings.
            6.   Existing drainage patterns.
            7.   Vistas and significant views.
            8.   Soil conditions as they affect development. All of the
graphics should be the same scale as the final plan to allow easy cross
reference.
      (4)   Proposed status:
         (a)   Schematic drawing of the proposed development concept including,
but not limited to, the general location of major circulation elements, public
and common open space, residential and other land uses;
         (b)   A statement of the estimated total number of dwelling units
proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the proposed approximate allocations
of land use expressed in acres and as a percent of the total project area which
shall include at least the following:
            1.   Area devoted to residential use by building type;
            2.   Area devoted to common open space;
            3.   Area devoted to public open space;
            4.   Approximate area devoted to streets;
            5.   Approximated area devoted to, and number, of off-street
parking and loading spaces and related access;
            6.   Approximated area and floor area devoted to industrial or
office use;
            7.   Total area of the property.
         (c)   When the PUD is to be constructed in stages during a period of
time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for the
development of the stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate
beginning and completion date for each stage or unit and the proportion of the
total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or
constructed during each stage and overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage.
         (d)   When the proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common
open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provision that is
to be made for the care and maintenance of the open space or service
facilities.
         (e)   Any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with respect
to property included in the proposed PUD.
         (f)   Schematic utility plans indicating placement of water, sanitary
and storm sewers.
         (g)   The city may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific
item of information or document required in this stage that if finds to be
unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal.
         (h)   The city may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation that it may find necessary.
   (F)   Final development plan.
      (1)   Following preliminary development plan approval, if given, the
applicant shall submit the final development plan application and final plat.
The application shall proceed and be acted upon in accordance with procedures
for final plat review and approval. If appropriate, because of the limited
scale of the proposal, the preliminary development plan stages and final
development plan stages may proceed simultaneously.
      (2)   Final development plan submission should depict and outline the
proposed implementations of the approved preliminary development plan and PUD
agreement. Information from the preliminary development plan may be included
for background and to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The final
development plan submissions shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A final plat and information required by the Madison subdivision
ordinance;
         (b)   Three sets of preliminary plans drawn to a scale of not less
than 1 inch equals 100 feet (or scale requested by the Zoning Administrator)
containing at least the following information:
            1.   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate
nor be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat previously recorded in
the county where the subject property is situated);
            2.   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property;
            3.   The location, size, use and arrangement, including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area
of proposed buildings, including mobile homes, and existing buildings which
will remain, if any;
            4.   Location, dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other circulation
elements, including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage of all
circulation elements;
            5.   Location, designation, and total area of all common open
space;
            6.   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed
or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites
and recreational facilities;
            7.   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and number system;
            8.   The location, use and size of structures and other land uses
on adjacent properties;
            9.   Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed landscaping;
            10.   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD;
            11.   Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or City Council in conjunction with the approval of the
preliminary development plan.
         (c)   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD
for which final development plan approval is sought.
         (d)   A tabulation indicating the number of residential dwelling units
and expected population.
         (e) A tabulation indicating the gross square footage, if any, of
commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (such as drug store,
dry cleaning, supermarket).
         (f)    Architectural "typical" plans indicating use, floor, plan,
elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings, including mobile
homes.
         (g)   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the
physical layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights of ways,
utility liens and facilities, lots, blocks, public and common open space,
general landscaping plan, structure, including mobile homes, and uses.
         (h)   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating
changes to existing topography and natural site vegetation. The plan should
clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved
preliminary development plan.
         (i)   A preliminary plat prepared in accordance with the Madison
subdivision ordinance.
         (j)   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
Department of Natural Resources, soil conservation service, or any other agency
with review authority clearly illustrating erosion control measures to be used
during construction and as permanent measures.
   (G)   Fees. Fees associated with the PUD application shall be set by
resolution of the City Council or ordinance.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
REGULATIONS
§ 151.185 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
151.185 through
151.190 is to establish general development standards to assure compatible land
uses; to prevent blight and deterioration; and to enhance the health, safety
and general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.186 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No cellar, basement, garage, tent/camper or accessory building shall
at any time be used as an independent residence or dwelling unit for a period
of more than 2 weeks in a calendar year.
   (B)   Basements may be used as living quarters as a portion of a residential
dwelling.
   (C)   Tents, play houses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
   (D)   Any new development that covers or replaces surface vegetation with an
impervious surface of more than 1 acre or more must specify controls to
minimize off-site stormwater runoff, maximize overland flow and flow distances
over surfaces covered with vegetation, increase on-site infiltration, minimize
off-site discharge of pollutants to ground and surface water, encourage
filtration functions, and reduce mosquito breeding habitat. Sidewalks, paths,
trails, and roads are exempt.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.187 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the
Administrator information on the location and dimensions of existing and
proposed buildings, location of easements crossing the property encroachments,
and any other information which may be necessary to insure conformance to city
ordinances.
   (B)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the city.
   (C)   A registered land survey may be requested by the Planning Commission
or Administrator for any property owner requesting a zoning permit, variance,
conditional use permit, or rezoning action.
   (D)   Except in the case of Planned Unit Development as provided for in this
chapter, not more than 1 principal building or use shall be located in a lot.
The words “principal building” or “principal use” shall be given their common,
ordinary meaning; in case of doubt or on any question or interpretation, the
decision of the Administrator shall be final, subject to the right of appeal to
the Planning Commission and City Council.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.188 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum yard setback distances from the appropriate property lines
are set forth within the district provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Earth sheltered buildings: computations for yard requirements shall be
based upon measurements from the exposed exterior surface of the building.
   (C)   The following shall not be considered as encroachment into yard
requirements: architectural projections extending not more than 3 feet into a
side yard area.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.189 BUILDING SIZE AND ARCHITECTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following building size and architectural standards shall apply to all
districts unless otherwise specified.
   (A)   Height exceptions.
      (1)   The building height limits established shall not apply to cupolas,
domes, spires, monuments, radio towers, television antennas, flag poles,
communication support structures, skylights, cooling towers, ventilation and
heating and cooling equipment, chimneys or flues, and equipment essential for
the operation and maintenance of a building; nor to elevators, water tanks,
utility poles, towers and other structures for essential services; nor to
similar structures for essential services; nor to similar structures extending
above the roof of any building and not occupying more than 25% of the area of
the roof.
      (2)   Structures exempt from the maximum height provisions of subsection
(1) above may not exceed a height of 15 feet above the average roof line of the
building to which they are affixed unless permitted by a variance.
   (B)   Architectural requirements. The following architectural requirements
shall apply to all dwellings in the “A-0" District and all residential
districts.
      (1)   All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent concrete or treated
wood foundation or a cement slab/base.
      (2)   Roof lines for primary structures must have at least a 4:1pitch;
flat roofs are not permitted.
      (3)   The minimum width of primary structures shall be 24 feet measured
from the face of the exterior wall.
      (4)   Any metal siding on a primary structure in a residential district
shall have horizontal edges and overlap in sections no wider than 12 inches.
Sheet metal siding is not permitted on the primary structure.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.190 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, USES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General statements. An accessory building shall be considered an
integral part of the principal building if it is connected to the principal
building by a covered passageway.
   (B)   Location. No accessory structures shall be located in the front yard.
   (C)   Height. Accessory structures shall not exceed the maximum height of 25
feet.
   (D)   Setbacks. Accessory structures shall conform to the setbacks required
in each district, except as otherwise required in this chapter.
   (E)   Size. Accessory building shall conform to the total lot coverage
requirements of each district, if any, unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   (F)   Building design standards. The architectural design and appearance of
all accessory buildings and structures shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Only asphalt shingles, asphalt roofing materials, steel roofing,
fiberglass roofing or wooden shakes shall be permitted as roof coverings in the
“R-1" and “R-2" Residential Districts.
      (2)   The exterior finish of all accessory buildings in the “R-1” and “R-
2” Districts shall match as close as possible the exterior finish of the
dwelling unit on the lot.
         (a)   Agriculture sheet metal is allowed under the following
parameters. The steel is factory colored, vertically hung, minimum 30 inch
wainscot, minimum 12 inch overhang, and a minimum pitch of 3:12.
         (b)   Galvanized sheet metal is not allowed.
      (3)   Accessory buildings shall be designed to support a 26 pound per
square foot live roof load.
      (4)   Exceptions: metal lawn or storage sheds 120 square feet or less in
floor area shall be exempt from these standards.
   (G)   Permanent accessory buildings and structure required. Only permanent
accessory buildings and structures are permitted in residential zoning
districts.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004; Am. Ord. 371, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 151.191 LAND RECLAMATION.
   Under this chapter land reclamation is the reclaiming of land by depositing
of materials so as to elevate the grade. All land reclamation shall be
controlled under the provisions of the Zoning Code and shall meet the following
minimum standards.
   (A)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible.
   (B)   Temporary ground cover is used and permanent ground cover, such as sod
or seed, is planted.
   (C)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed.
   (D)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
   (E)   Final slopes for cut slopes shall be as required by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.192 MINING.
   The extraction of sand, gravel, or other material from the land in the total
amount of 400 cubic yards or more and removal thereof from the site without
processing shall be defined as mining. The conduct of mining shall be permitted
only upon issuance of a conditional use permit. The permit shall include, as a
condition thereof, a plan for a finished grade which will not adversely affect
the surrounding land or the development of the site on which the mining is
being conducted, and the route of trucks moving to and from the site.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.193 FENCING, SCREENING, AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no fence shall exceed 4
feet in the front yard or 6 feet in the rear and side yards in height as
measured from the average point between the highest and lowest grade.
   (B)   No fence, screen, or structure which obstructs view shall be located
within 20 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of street or railroad
right-of-ways as measured from the intersecting property lines.
   (C)   In all zoning districts all usable open space as defined by this
chapter shall be planted and maintained in grass, sod, shrubs, or other
suitable vegetation or surfaces.
   (D)   All screening required by the provisions of this chapter shall consist
of either:
      (1)   A green belt planting strip consisting of vegetative cover of
sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen; or
      (2)   A fence constructed of masonry, brick, wood or steel which is
compatible with surrounding structures and buildings and where the "good" or
most aesthetically appealing side of the fence faces the adjacent property
where the fence is being constructed.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (B) above, fences and screenings shall
be set back at least 2 feet from the lot lines or upon written mutual consent
of the abutting property owner(s) may be placed along the lot line. The written
mutual consent must be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.194 NUISANCES AND BLIGHT.
   Public nuisances and blight affecting health, morals and decency, and peace
and safety are regulated in the city’s nuisance ordinance.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.195 JUNK YARDS.
   Junk yards, salvage yards or wrecking yards shall be permitted only within
the I-1 District and in no case shall they be located so as to be plainly
visible from a road or street. The junk yards shall be effectively screened on
all sides as required in the city’s junk yard ordinance.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.196 VISION CLEARANCE AT CORNERS, CURB CUTS AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   Notwithstanding any part of this chapter or any permit or variance granted,
no structure, vehicle, vegetation, fence, sign, building, or any obstacle, or
any portion thereof shall be placed or retained in such a manner to constitute
a traffic hazard or obstruct the vision clearance of corners, curb cuts, or
railroad crossings.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.197 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses shall comply with all federal, state, and local pollution and
nuisance laws and regulations, including but not limited to glare, smoke, dust,
odors, and noise. The burden of proof for compliance of appropriate performance
standards shall lie with the applicant.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.198 LIGHTING.
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign, or
structure shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential properties or uses from the public streets.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.199 PUBLIC WATER ALTERATION.
   Any alteration which will change or diminish the course, current or cross
section of a public water shall be approved by the Commissioner of the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, in accordance with the procedures of
M.S. § 105.42, as amended from time to time. This alteration includes
construction of channels and ditches; lagooning; dredging of lake or stream
bottoms for removal of muck, silt or weeds; and filling in the lake or stream
bed.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.200 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All manufactured homes on individually owned parcels of land shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The home shall have all wheels, axles, transporting lights and towing
apparatuses removed, but in such a manner that they may be reattached at some
later time;
   (B)   The home and the lot on which it sits shall conform to all the
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located;
   (C)   All manufactured homes shall have access to a public road;
   (D)   All manufactured homes shall conform to the manufactured home building
code (M.S. §§ 327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time).
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.201 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for manufactured
home parks in an appropriate, safe, sanitary and attractive environment.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Manufactured home parks are conditional uses, by
law, and are allowed as a conditional use in any zoning district that allows
the construction or placement of a building used or intended to be used by 2 or
more families.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The following are permitted accessory uses in
manufactured home parks:
      (1)   Off-street private parking facilities;
      (2)   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities;
      (4)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping as permitted and regulated by §
151.193;
      (5)   Tool houses, sheds and similar storage buildings;
      (6)   Central office and central community building;
      (7)   Home occupations consistent with §
151.202;
      (8)   Private garages 1,200 square feet or less and parking spaces as
regulated by §
151.204.
   (D)   Regulations.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   All mobile home parks and recreational camping areas constructed
or located in the city after the adoption of this chapter shall comply to M.S.
§§ 327.10 - 327.28, as they may be amended from time to time, laws regulating
mobile home parks and recreational camping areas, and Chapter 13, MHD 187-197,
Minnesota State Board of Health Regulations governing mobile home parks and
recreational camping areas.
         (b)   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes in a
manufactured home park.
         (c)   Where the manufactured home park is dependent, it shall have an
adequate central community building with the following features:
            1.   Laundry drying areas and machines;
            2.   Laundry washing machines;
            3.   Showers;
            4.   Public toilets and lavatories;
            5.   The buildings shall have central heating and be maintained in
a safe, clean, and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Development plan requirements. A development plan shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission and the City Council that contains the
following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The legal description and size in acres of the property proposed
for a manufactured home park;
         (c)   A sketch of the existing topography;
         (d)   The number, location, and size of all manufactured home lots;
         (e)   The location of all water and sewer lines, including the
location of riser pipes;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of all existing and proposed buildings,
sidewalks and park recreation areas constructed or to be constructed within the
manufactured home park;
         (g)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems,
including street lighting facilities;
         (h)   A landscape plan, including a detailed description of the
required buffer area;
         (i)   A survey by a registered surveyor of the boundaries of the
proposed park; and
         (j)   A plan showing existing and proposed streets designed to
accommodate the traffic generated by the proposed park.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Site.
            1.   Each manufactured home site for a single-wide home shall
contain at least 7,000 square feet of land for the exclusive use of the
occupant, with a width of no less than 50 feet and a depth of no less than 140
feet. The maximum building height for any manufactured home is 35 feet.
            2.   Each manufactured home site shall have frontage on an approved
roadway and the corner of each manufactured home site shall be marked and each
site shall be numbered.
            3.   A mobile home park shall be capable of providing at least 20
fully developed lots.
         (b)   Setbacks.
            1.   Setbacks for manufactured homes shall have the same setbacks
required in the zoning district in which the manufactured home park is located.
            2.   No manufactured home unit or accessory structure shall be
located within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any manufactured home park.
         (c)   Parking. Each manufactured home site shall have off-street
parking space for 2 automobiles.
         (d)   Utilities.
            1.   All manufactured homes shall be connected to a public water
and sanitary sewer system. All water and sewer systems shall be constructed in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the City Engineer. All
water systems shall provide an adequate water supply and number of hydrants for
fire fighting as per the Uniform Fire Code.
            2.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
            3.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes. If a connection is made to an in-place public system, a connection
fee or assessment may be charged for this service.
            4.   The method of garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be
approved by the city.
            5.   The park owner shall pay any required sewer and water
connection fees to the city.
         (e)   Streets and sidewalks.
            1.   Streets shall be hard surfaced as approved by the city and
have curves/turns with adequate radii to accommodate emergency vehicles.
            2.   The minimum street widths shall be as approved by the City
Engineer.
            3.   The location and width of sidewalks must be approved by the
city.
         (f)   Buffer area. A buffer consisting of a vegetative screening at
least 25 feet in width and 12 feet in height shall be located along all
boundaries of the manufactured home park, except where it is crossed by
driveways, streets and roads. The buffer shall include a dense planting of
deciduous and evergreen trees, shrubs and bushes so as to form a complete
screen to adjoining properties and streets year around. Plans for the
vegetative screen shall be approved as part of the conditional use permit.
         (g)   Recreation. All parks shall be required to have 1 or more
recreational areas which are at least 10% of the park’s land area and shall be
easily accessible to all park residents by walkways or paths. The required area
shall not include the landscape buffer specified in this section. Recreational
areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and shall, where the
topography permits, be centrally located. These recreational areas shall be
subject to approval by the Planning Commission. All equipment installed in such
an area shall be owned and maintained by the owner or operator at his or her
own expense.
         (h)   Common building lighting. Artificial light shall be maintained
during all hours of darkness in all buildings containing public toilets,
laundry equipment, and other facilities when open for use.
         (i)   Drainage. All manufactured home parks shall be provided with
adequate drainage facilities and storm sewers as approved by the city.
         (j)   Trees. A minimum of 1 tree per lot is required. In open areas
and recreation areas, a minimum of 20 trees per acre are required.
         (k)   Signs and mailboxes. All signs and mailboxes shall be uniform in
material and design and be approved as part of the landscape plan.
         (l)   Storage.
            1.   If a separate area for exterior storage of boats, travel
trailers or any other items is to be provided, the area shall be located away
from any public street and shall be densely screened and fenced in an approved
manner.
            2.   In manufactured housing developments for which the intent is
to rent spaces to owners of individual homes and not to convey ownership of the
land in some manner to individual homeowners, uniform storage or tool sheds
with a minimum of 120 square feet shall be required on each manufactured home
site. Garages may be substituted for the required storage or tool shed. All
sheds shall be constructed of a water resistant material and shall enhance the
appearance of the lot.
      (4)   Fee. The fee for every mobile home park/recreational camping area
license shall be the cost of obtaining a conditional use permit as prescribed
by ordinance.
      (5)   Anchoring and support systems.
         (a)   The provisions made for anchoring systems shall be based on the
regulations outlined by the Minnesota Department of Administration, Building
Code Division 2 MCAR 1.90103 and the number of ties shall be in accordance with
the following table:
   Number of Ties Required Per Side of Single Wide Manufactured Homes
Length of Mobile No. of Vertical No. of Diagonal Alternative Methods
Home (feet)      Ties            Ties            No. of Baling No. of Diagonal
                                                 Straps        Ties
Length of Mobile No. of Vertical No. of Diagonal Alternative Methods
Home (feet)      Ties            Ties            No. of Baling No. of Diagonal
                                                 Straps        Ties
Up to 40         2               3               2             3
40-46            2               3               2             3
46-49            2               3               2             3
49-54            2               3               2             3
54-58            2               4               2             4
58-64            2               4               2             4
64-70            2               4               2             5
70-73            2               4               2             5
73-84            2               5               2             5
 
         (b)   Double-wide manufactured homes requires only the diagonal ties
specified, and these shall be placed along the outer side walls.
         (c)   Length of manufactured home (as used in this Table) means length
excluding draw bar.
         (d)   Diagonal ties in this method shall deviate at least 40 degrees
from vertical.
         (e)   Alternative method: when this method is used, an approved
reinforcement means shall be provided. If baling is used to accomplish this
reinforcement, the provisions of 2 MCAR 1.90450 A.2.c. shall apply.
         (f)   Diagonal ties in this method shall be 45 degrees + 5 degrees
vertical and shall be attached to the nearest main frame member.
      (6)   Subdivision regulations. Land subdivided for manufactured home
parks must be subdivided in conformance with the city’s subdivision
regulations.
      (7)   Building size and architectural requirements. Manufactured homes
and their accessory structures shall conform to all building and architectural
requirements identified in this chapter (see §
151.189).
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.202 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupation uses are subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   The home occupation must be conducted entirely within a dwelling or
accessory structure except daycare facilities.
   (B)   The home occupation must be incidental to and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the essential
residential character of the principal use.
   (C)   The use must be conducted by a member of the family residing on the
premises.
   (D)   The home occupation shall not utilize mechanical, electrical, or other
equipment which produces noise, electrical or magnetic interference, vibration,
heat, glare or other nuisances outside the dwelling unit or accessory
structure.
   (E)   Offices, clinics, barber shops, beauty parlors, dress shops, coffee
rooms, tourist homes, music and dance schools, or similar uses shall require
conditional use permits.
   (F)   Such occupations as architects, computer professionals, artists,
writers, clergymen, daycares, lawyers, teachers, CPAs, domestic crafts and
similar professional occupations shall be permitted.
   (G)   No home occupation may generate more vehicle daily trips by either
customers, delivery persons, or employees in greater volumes than would
normally be expected for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (H)   Not more than 1 non-illuminated wall or free standing sign measuring 3
square feet in area is permitted on the lot in which the home occupation is
being conducted.
   (I)   When deemed appropriate, the Administrator may bring the home
occupation to the attention of the Planning Commission at which time the
Planning Commission may hold such public hearings, request such information, or
require such conditions as deemed necessary to bring the home occupation in
compliance with the performance criteria. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council for final consideration.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.203 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The following regulations are provided to maintain the
attractiveness and orderliness of the city and to protect public safety.
   (B)   Types of signs defined.
      (1)   Billboard. Any sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or
noncommercial message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered, or
a commodity sold at a location other than where the sign is located. Billboards
require a single or monopole construction.
      (2)   Business sign. A sign, including any supporting or framing
structure, which directs attention to a business or profession conducted upon
the premises, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon
the premises on which the sign is located.
      (3)   Free standing sign. Any sign erected on a freestanding framework
supported and affixed by one or more uprights or braces in or upon the ground.
      (4)   Roof sign. Any sign attached to the roof of a building.
      (5)   Sign. A name, identification, description display or illustration
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon an awning,
canopy, marquee, building structure, or piece of land which directs attention
to an object, project, place, activity, person, institution, organization or
business. A “sign” shall not include any official court or other public
notices, nor shall it include the flag, emblem, or insignia of a nation,
political unit, school, or religious or service or fraternal group.
      (6)   Wall sign. Any sign attached to the wall of a building.
   (C)   Permit required. No sign, outdoor advertising structure, or display of
any character shall be permitted except in conformity with the following
regulations. A zoning permit is required for erection, construction, placement,
or replacement of any sign to be permanently attached to a building or to be
permanently erected as a free-standing sign.
   (D)   General regulations for signs.
      (1)   Flashing, moving, glaring signs prohibited. No illuminated sign
shall be of excessive brightness or shall flash, scintillate, or move. Time and
temperature or message signs not otherwise prohibited under this regulation
will be allowed, provided they do not create hazardous or annoying glare.
      (2)   No sign shall be so located as to hide from view or so illuminated
as to interfere with the effectiveness of any traffic-control devise or signal.
      (3)   No business sign or sign structure shall be located in such a
manner as to materially impede the motorist’s view at any street or highway
intersection.
      (4)   No sign shall be permitted to be placed on any wall, fence, or
standard facing the side of any adjoining lot which shares a lot line and is
located in a residential district, except for those signs permitted in
residential districts as provided herein.
      (5)   All signs shall be maintained in good and safe structural
condition.
      (6)   No sign or part thereof shall be located on any private property
without the consent of the owner, holder, lessee, agent, or trustee.
      (7)   No sign shall contain any indecent, offensive picture, or immoral
in character or written manner.
      (8)   Roof signs must not extend 5 feet above the roof line.
      (9)   Billboards are permitted along state highways with required city
and state permits.
      (10)   Searchlights and beacon lights are prohibited.
      (11)   Signs exempt from regulation and permit.
         (a)   Signs used exclusively for the posting or display of official
notices by a public agency or official, or by a person giving legal notice and
signs erected or maintained by a public agency or official, or required by law
to be displayed by a public utility for directional warning or informational
purposes, are not subject to the regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   Informational and directional signs (which may include a
corporate identity symbol) are exempt from this regulation.
         (c)   Residential nameplate signs of not more than 2 square feet, one
per dwelling except for corner lots which may have one nameplate sign facing
each street.
         (d)   Temporary special event signs, portable signs and banners for
commercial, community and non-profit sponsored events, providing they are in
use for no more than 14 days.
         (e)   Temporary garage sale, house sale, or real estate sale and
construction project signs providing they are removed after the sale or
completion of the construction project.
         (f)   Temporary child operated refreshment stand sign.
         (g)   All campaign signs of any size provided they are removed within
10 days following the election.
   (E)   Sign regulations within residential districts. The following sign
regulations shall pertain to all residential districts:
      (1)   For each multiple-family dwelling, identification signs indicating
only the name and address of the building and the name of the management, not
exceeding a total of 16 square feet in area. The signs may not be closer than
10 feet to any other zoning lot. On corner lots, identification signs shall be
permitted per street.
      (2)   A residential project having a number of buildings shall be
permitted one additional sign at the major entry with the name of the project
only. The sign shall be not greater than 32 square feet in area and located not
closer than 16 feet to any other zoning lot.
      (3)   Church bulletins, cemetery signs, educational institutions, social
facilities and other similar uses: a single identification sign not exceeding
32 square feet except that on corner lots, 2-32 square foot signs will be
permitted, 1 facing each street.
      (4)   Signs designating parking area entrances or exists are limited to 1
sign for each entrance or exit of no more than 3 square feet sign of area for
each sign face. One additional sign shall be permitted designating the
conditions of use and name of business served by the parking, provided the sign
does not exceed 9 square feet. No advertising is permitted on parking area
signs.
      (5)   No free-standing sign shall project higher than 6 feet from the
ground. No attached sign shall project more than 12 inches from the wall to
which it is attached.
      (6)   Roof signs are prohibited in residential districts.
      (7)   Billboards are prohibited in residential districts and must not be
located within a distance equal to 1 city block of any residential district.
   (F)   Sign regulations within the B-1, B-2 and I-1 Districts.
      (1)   Signs permitted in residential districts are permitted in the B-1,
B-2 and I-1 Districts.
      (2)   The gross area in square feet of business wall signs shall not
exceed 20% of the wall area per fascia to which it is attached or of which it
is a part.
      (3)   The gross area in square feet of all free-standing business signs
shall not exceed one square foot per each lineal foot of frontage of the zoning
lot.
      (4)   No free-standing sign shall extend over the right-of-way line on
any street or highway, except for business signs where existing buildings have
no front or side yards or setbacks from the street or road right-of-way may
extend over the sidewalk only. Where there is no sidewalk, the sign may extend
to a length of a standard sidewalk width located in the zoning district. Signs
extending over a right-of-way and/or sidewalk must be a minimum of 13 feet and
6 inches above the ground to allow for snow removal equipment.
   (G)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Any nonconforming sign existing upon the effective date of this
chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued, repaired and maintained at
the size and in the manner of operation existing upon such date.
      (2)   After a nonconforming sign has been removed, it shall not be
replaced by another nonconforming sign. Whenever the use of a nonconforming
sign has been discontinued for a period of more than 1 year or if it is
destroyed by more than 50% of its market value, the use shall not be resumed
thereafter unless the sign meets the requirements of this section.
   (H)   Abatement. If the Administrator finds that any sign has been erected
without the necessary permit(s) or any sign is being maintained in violation of
any provision of this section, written notice of the violation will be given to
the installer of said sign, to the permit holder and/or to the owner, lessee or
manager of the property. If after receiving the notice the person fails to
remove or alter the sign so as to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
the sign shall be deemed to be a nuisance and may be abated by the city under
M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time. The cost of such an
abatement, including administrative expenses and reasonable attorneys’ fees,
may be levied as a special assessment against the property upon which the sign
is located.
   (I)   Appeals. An applicant for a sign permit or a permit holder may appeal
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Administrator or
his or her authorized designee in the enforcement of this section by filing an
application for appeal with the Administrator.
   (J)   Variances. An applicant for a sign permit may request a variance from
the requirements of this chapter. The process for requesting a variance shall
be as provided in §
151.237. The Council may approve such a variance upon a finding that the
variance meets each of the following criteria, although it shall not be
required to do so:
      (1)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applying to the property and/or structure(s) in question, which circumstances
or conditions do not apply generally to other property and/or structures;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation of substantial
property rights of the applicant;
      (3)   Under the circumstances of the particular situation the variance
will not adversely affect the health, safety or general welfare of residents of
the surrounding area or of the community as a whole.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.204 PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking. Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be
provided on every lot on which any new structures are established. The space
shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley so as to allow
vehicles safe entry onto the roadway, and the space shall be deemed to be
required open space associated with the permitted use and shall not thereafter
be reduced or encroached upon in any manner. When a structure is enlarged, the
required off-street parking space shall be provided for the enlarged portion.
If a use is changed to a different use requiring more space, the additional
amount of parking area shall be provided. In addition, the required minimum
spaces as provided in division (B) shall apply.
   (B)   Required spaces. The following uses shall, at a minimum, provide the
number of off-street parking spaces as designated:
      (1)   Single- or two-family dwelling:   2 parking space for each unit;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings:      2 parking spaces per unit for
residents and 1 space per unit for guests;
      (3)   Industrial uses:         1 space for each 2 employees based upon
peak employment on a single shift.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.205 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT USES. Include bookstores, adult motion pictures theaters, adult
motion picture rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage
parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all
members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being seen by members of the
public.
         (a)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         (b)   SPECIFIC SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
            1.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
            2.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
            3.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
            4.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
            5.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are
nude, clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are
engaged in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding
or other physical restraint of any such persons;
            6.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
            7.   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
      ADULT USES - ACCESSORY. A use, business, or establishment having 10% or
less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or 20% or less of its
gross receipts derived from adult use movie rentals or adult use magazine
sales.
      ADULT USES - PRINCIPAL. A use, business, or establishment having more
than 10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of
its gross receipts derived from any adult use.
      ADULT USE - BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture film if the building or
portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public extending any minor by reason of age or if a
substantial or significant portion of the items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors
by reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - HOTEL OR MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE - MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas while
being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any on time, and where the images
so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE - NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designated for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE - SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides a stream bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse
facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE - STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   (B)   Purpose. The nature of adult uses is such that they are recognized as
having adverse secondary characteristics, particularly when they are accessible
to minors and located near residential property or related residential uses
such as schools, day care centers, libraries or parks. Furthermore, the
concentration of adult uses has an adverse effect upon the use and enjoyment of
adjacent areas. The nature of adult uses requires that they not be allowed
within certain zoning districts or within minimum distances from each other or
residential uses. Special regulation of adult uses is necessary to ensure that
the adverse secondary effects would not contribute or enhance criminal activity
in the area of the uses nor will it contribute to the blighting or downgrading
of the surrounding property and lessening of its value.
   (C)   General provisions. Adult uses as defined in this chapter shall be
subject to the following general provisions:
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene are not permitted and are
prohibited. In no instance shall the application or interpretation of this
ordinance be constructed to allow an activity otherwise prohibited by law.
      (2)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (3)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use, as defined
herein, shall be classified as an adult use-principal.
   (D)   Adult use, principal.
      (1)   Adult use-principal shall be a conditional use in the I-1 General
Industrial District, subject to the location criteria outlined herein.
      (2)   Adult use-principal shall be located at least 300 radial feet, as
measured in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the
building upon which the adult use-principal is located to the property line of:
         (a)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically
listed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use-principal;
         (g)   Any church or church related organization;
         (h)   Any existing residence.
      (3)   No adult use-principal shall be located in the same building or
upon the same property as another adult use-principal.
      (4)   Adult use-principal shall adhere to the following signing
regulations in addition to the sign regulations of §
151.203.
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name of the business.
         (b)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for
the district in which they are located.
      (5)   Adult use-principal shall be limited to 7:00 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. for
its hours of operation. Differing time schedule may be approved by the City
Council, if it can be satisfactorily demonstrated by the operator to the City
Council that all the following apply:
         (a)   Not adversely impact or affect uses or activities within 350
feet;
         (b)   Will not result in increased policing and related service calls;
         (c)   Is critical to the operation of the business.
   (E)   Adult use, accessory. Adult Uses-accessory shall be permitted in all
commercial districts, provided the accessory use conforms with the provisions
of this section.
      (1)   Adult use-accessory shall:
         (a)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located;
         (b)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation;
         (c)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (2)   Adult use-accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access to
minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general public
access.
         (a)   Movie rental. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
         (b)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with a
wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
         (c)   Other use. Adult uses-accessory not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Adult use-accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
   (F)   Nonconforming adult use-principal or accessory. An adult use already
operating within a community in an area where it will not be allowed pursuant
to city ordinance may not be grand fathered or considered a legal nonconforming
use. The city will issue a notice for the adult use to relocate its operation
to an area where the adult use is allowed. The adult use operator has one year
from the date of the notice to relocate its operation to an area where the
adult use is allowed.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall be a basis for the suspension
or revocation of the certificate of occupancy for the property or building in
or on which the adult use is located. In the event the City Council proposes to
revoke or suspend a certificate of occupancy, the property owner shall be
notified in writing of the basis for the proposed suspension or revocation. The
City Council shall hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to
revoke or suspend the certificate of occupancy, which hearing shall be within
30 days of the date of the notice.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether to revoke or suspend a
certificate of occupancy within 30 days after the close of the hearing or
within 60 days of the dates of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall
notify the property owner of its decision within that period.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.206 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
regulation of nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming buildings,
structures, and uses will be operated and maintained.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of
this chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon such date except as hereinafter specified or
subsequently amended.
      (2)   No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be moved to
another lot or to any other part of the parcel, unless the movement shall bring
the nonconformance into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   If at any time a nonconforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, the value to
be determined by the County Assessor, then without further action by the
Council, the building and the land on which the building was located or
maintained shall, from and after the date of the destruction, be subject to all
the regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the district in which
the land and buildings are located. Any building which is damaged to an extent
of less than 50% of its value may be restored to its former extent.
      (4)   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a structure or land is
discontinued for a period of 1 year, following written notice from an
authorized agent of the city, the use shall become conforming with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Normal maintenance and repair of a building or other lawful
nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary non-structural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not physically extend or intensify the
nonconforming use.
      (6)   Alterations may be made to a building or other lawful nonconforming
residential units as a conditional use when the alterations will improve the
livability thereof, provided they will not increase the number of dwelling
units or size or volume of the building or increase the nonconformity.
      (7)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become
nonconforming but for which a zoning permit has been lawfully granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter, may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided construction is started within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. The structure and use shall thereafter be a
legally nonconforming structure and use.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.207 TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 374, passed 8-8-2016)
AMENDMENTS AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 151.220 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for amendments or conditional use permits, as provided within
this chapter, shall be filed with the Administrator on an official application
form. The application shall also be accompanied by complimentary copies of
detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use. The Administrator shall refer the application, along with
all related information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration and
a report at least 10 days before the next regular scheduled meeting.
   (B)   The Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall set a
date for a public hearing for amendments and conditional use permits. Notice of
the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper. Notice shall be mailed not less than 10 days to all property owners
of record according to the county assessment records or the city’s parcel
zoning map, within 350 feet of the property to which the request relates. A
copy of the notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the
notices were sent shall be attested to by the Administrator and made part of
official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided
a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has been made.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a public
hearing at its next regular scheduled meeting unless the filing date falls
within 10 days of the meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the
agenda and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular
meeting. The Administrator shall refer the application, along with all related
information, to the City Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant
or a representative thereof may appear before the Planning Commission in order
to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment or conditional use.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse affects of the
proposed amendment or conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon (but
not limited to) the following general factors:
      (1)   Relationship to the city’s growth and development patterns;
      (2)   The geographical area involved;
      (3)   Whether the use will tend to or actually depreciate the area in
which it is proposed;
      (4)   The character of the surrounding area;
      (5)   The demonstrated need for the use;
      (6)   The public need for additional land space for the requested use in
the location requested;
      (7)   Compatibility of adjacent land uses;
      (8)   The possible presence and effects of noise, odors or other
nuisances;
      (9)   Availability in the present or near future of necessary utilities
and public services.
   (E)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, said information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter.
   (F)   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may impose
additional conditions and restrictions which are reasonably necessary to insure
compliance with all provisions of this chapter or are deemed necessary to
protect the public’s interest. Additional conditions and restrictions include,
but are not limited to, matters relating to appearance, lighting, hours of
operation and performance characteristics. All conditions pertaining to a
specific site are subject to change when the Planning Commission or City
Council, upon investigation, finds that the community safety, health, welfare
and public betterment can be served as well or better by modifying the
conditions.
   (G)   Within 30 days from the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend the actions or conditions
relating to the request to the City Council.
   (H)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and within 60 days of the Administrator receiving the completed
application, the City Council shall place the report and recommendation on the
agenda for the next regular meeting. The reports and recommendations shall be
entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the City Council
meeting.
   (I)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall either:
      (1)   Approve or disapprove by majority vote the request as recommended
by the Planning Commission based upon whether the application meets the
requirements stated in this chapter;
      (2)   Approve or disapprove by majority vote the recommendation of the
Planning Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions.
The modifications, alterations or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made part of the Council’s records; or
      (3)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for future
consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a singular
action. Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of the
full City Council. The Administrator shall notify the applicant of the
Council’s action.
   (J)   The recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be advisory to the
City Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final subject to
judicial review and made within 60 days of receipt of a complete application.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.221 LAPSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT BY NON-USE.
   Whenever within 1 year after granting a conditional use permit the work as
permitted by the permit shall not have been completed, then the permit shall
become null and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to
complete the work has been granted by the City Council. The extension shall be
requested in writing and filed with the Administrator at least 30 days before
the expiration of the original conditional use permit. There shall be no charge
for the filing of the petition. The request for extension shall state facts
showing a good faith attempt to complete the work permitted in the conditional
use permit. The petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and to the City Council for a decision and shall be requested
only one time on a singular action. The extension shall be granted by the City
Council for a period determined sufficient to complete the work permitted.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.222 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate
a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this chapter. Any
person owning real estate within the city may initiate a request to amend the
district boundaries or text of this chapter so as to affect the said real
estate. All amendment requests must first be reviewed by the Planning
Commission.
   (A)   An amendment to this chapter may be one of the following:
      (1)   A change in a district’s boundary (rezoning);
      (2)   A change in a district’s regulation;
      (3)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council, by a majority vote of its members, after the
hearing, may adopt a new zoning ordinance and the amendments or alterations
thereto. Two-thirds majority vote of the Council is required for
reclassification of land from residential to commercial or industrial. The
Planning Commission shall report in writing as to whether in its opinion the
proposals to the City Council in any case are reasonably related to the overall
needs of the community, to existing land use, or to a plan for future land use
and shall conduct a public hearing on such proposed ordinance, changes or
alterations.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.223 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   Proceedings for amending this chapter shall be initiated by at least one of
the following 3 methods:
   (A)   By petition of the owner or owners of property which is proposed to be
rezoned;
   (B)   By recommendation of the Planning Commission;
   (C)   By action of the City Council.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.224 REQUIRED EXHIBITS FOR REZONING INITIATED BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Proof of ownership or intent to own property.
   (B)   Registered land survey upon Planning Commission request.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
VARIANCES AND APPEALS
§ 151.235 PURPOSE.
   The Planning Commission is established as the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments for the purpose of hearing appeals and variances under the
provisions of this chapter in harmony with the purpose and intent of this
chapter. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments (Planning Commission) shall be
advisory to the City Council.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.236 PROCEDURES ON VARIANCES.
   (A)   The applicant for a variance shall complete and submit to the
Administrator an application for a variance, together with a fee established by
the City Council.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
variance. Notice of the time, place, and subject matter of the proposed
variance shall be published in the official newspaper. Property owners within
350 feet of the subject property shall receive a copy of the notice by mail.
The notices shall be published and mailed 10 days before the public hearing.
Failure to receive a notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall make written findings of fact and
recommendations on the proposed variance to the City Council.
   (D)   The City Council shall approve or deny the proposed variance following
referral by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Within 30 days from the date the request was received, the Planning
Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend the actions or conditions
relating to the request to the City Council. The findings shall be entered in
and made a part of the written record of the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and within 60 days of the request being received by the
Administrator, the City Council shall make a land use decision. The reports and
recommendations shall be entered in and made a part of the permanent written
record of the City Council.
   (G)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall either:
      (1)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission; or
      (2)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning Commission
with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. The modifications,
alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and made part of the
Council’s records; or
      (3)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for
further consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
   (H)   Approval of variances or appeals shall require passage by a majority
vote of the full City Council. The Administrator shall notify the applicant of
the Council’s action.
   (I)   The decisions of the Planning Commission shall be advisory to the City
Council. The decisions of the City Council shall be final subject to judicial
review.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.237 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   A variance may be granted only in the event that the applicant demonstrates
by factual presentation that all of the following circumstances exist:
   (A)   The interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would cause undue
hardship, deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties
in the same district under the terms of this chapter and leave the applicant
with no reasonable use of the land, provided that the hardship shall not have
been created by the applicant;
   (B)   The conditions causing the hardship are unique and are not shared by
neighboring property in the same zoning district. Exceptional or extraordinary
circumstances apply to the property which do not apply generally to other
properties in the same zoning district and result from lot size or shape,
topography, or other circumstances over which the owners of the property since
enactment of this chapter had no control;
   (C)   The variance would be in keeping with the spirit and intent of the
chapter and would not essentially alter the character of the neighborhood or
adversely affect the environmental equality of the area;
   (D)   The variance would not allow any use that is not permitted under this
chapter for a property in the zoning district where the affected applicant’s
land is located.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.238 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   In granting a variance the Planning Commission may recommend and the City
Council may impose additional conditions and restrictions which are reasonably
necessary to insure compliance with all provisions of this chapter or are
deemed necessary to protect the public’s interest.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.239 FINDING OF FACT.
   In considering all requests for a variance or appeal, the City Council,
acting as the Planning Commission, shall make a finding of fact as appropriate
that the proposed action will not:
   (A)   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property;
   (B)   Unreasonably increase the congestion in the public right-of-way;
   (C)   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety;
   (D)   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the
neighborhood;
   (E)   Cause an unreasonable strain upon existing municipal facilities and
services;
   (F)   Be contrary in any way to the spirit and intent of this chapter;
   (G)   Have a negative direct and indirect fiscal impact upon the city,
county, or school district, unless the proposed use is determined to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.240 APPEALS PROCEDURES.
   Any person wishing to appeal an order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative officer in enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall complete and submit to the Administrator an application for an
appeal within 30 days after the date of the order or decision in question. The
application for appeal shall contain a complete statement of the order,
requirement, decision or determination, the name of the administrative officer
involved, and a concise statement of the alleged error committed.
   (A)   The Administrator shall determine that the application contains all
information required by this section has been provided before presenting the
application to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the appeal
request. Notice of the time, place, and subject matter of the proposed variance
shall be published in the official newspaper. Property owners within 350 feet
of the subject property shall receive a copy of the notice by mail. The notices
shall be published and mailed 10 days before the public hearing. Failure to
receive a notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review the application and make written
findings of fact to the City Council.
   (D)   The City Council shall grant or deny the appeal request after
receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.241 LAPSE OF VARIANCE OR APPEAL.
   Whenever within 1 year after granting a variance or appeal the work as
permitted by the variance or appeal shall not have been completed, then the
variance or appeal shall become null and void unless a petition for extension
of time in which to complete the work has been granted by the City Council. The
extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the Administrator at
least 30 days before the expiration of the original variance or appeal. There
shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The request for extension
shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the work permitted
in the variance or appeal. The petition shall be presented to the Planning
Commission for a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision and
shall be requested only one time on a singular action. The extension shall be
granted by the City Council for a period determined sufficient to complete the
work permitted.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.255 ADMINISTRATING OFFICER.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator
who shall be appointed by the City Council.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.256 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   An administrative staff member designated by the city shall be the
enforcement officer and shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter. The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall be as follows:
   (A)   Examine all applications pertaining to the use of land, buildings, or
structures and grant approval of, and issue permits or take other appropriate
action on, such applications when in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter;
   (B)   Keep a record of all nonconforming uses within the several zoning
districts of the city;
   (C)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a provision
of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it;
   (E)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures,
order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions or alterations, order
discontinuance of illegal work being done or take any other action authorized
by this chapter to insure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions;
   (F)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including all
maps, amendments, conditional uses, and variances;
   (G)   Maintain a current file of all permits, zoning certificates,
certificates of zoning compliance, and notices of violation, discontinuance or
removal, for such time as necessary to insure a continuous compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and, on request, provide information to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any specific property or to an
individual seeking an understanding or clarification of the regulations and
procedures stipulated in this chapter; and
   (H)   Attend all scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meetings and
hearings in an ex-officio capacity. The responsibility for drafting
recommendations, resolutions, and decisions for the public record may be
assigned to the Zoning Administrator at the option of the chairperson of the
Commission or Board.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.257 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. Unless and until a zoning permit shall first have
been obtained from the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   The construction, reconstruction that affects the exterior
footprint, or moving of any structure shall not be commenced;
      (2)   The improvement of land preliminary to any use of the land shall
not be commenced;
      (3)   Any zoning permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void.
   (B)   Application for zoning permit. Application for zoning permits shall be
made to the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the city. Every
application for a zoning permit shall contain at least the following
information and shall be accompanied by at least the following documents,
unless any specifically required information or document is waived in writing
by the Zoning Administrator as not relevant or necessary to determine that all
provisions of this chapter have been met in a particular case:
      (1)   A plat of the piece or parcel of land, lot or lots, block or blocks
or parts or portions thereof, showing the actual dimensions of the piece or
parcel, lot or lots, block or blocks or parts or portions thereof, according to
the recorded plat of the land;
      (2)   A site plan of the property illustrating the proposed development
of the property and including the following:
         (a)   Property boundary lines, dimensions of the property, and north
arrow;
         (b)   Location and dimensions of buildings, including height in
stories and feet and including total square feet of ground area coverage and
floor area of all existing and proposed buildings and the planned use of each
building;
         (c)   Setbacks of buildings from property lines;
         (d)   Adjacent streets and alleys with the properties street address;
         (e)   Location and dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, loading spaces, access aisles, and total lot coverage of all
parking, loading, driveway, and aisle areas;
         (f)   Any information necessary to determine that conditions imposed
upon the grant of a conditional use permit have been complied with; and
         (g)   Any other information that may be required by the Zoning
Administrator to determine that the application is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Issuance of zoning permit. A zoning permit shall be either issued or
refused by the Zoning Administrator within 10 calendar days after the receipt
of an application therefore, or within such further period as may be agreed to
by the applicant in writing. One copy of all plans shall be returned to the
applicant by the Zoning Administrator after he or she shall have marked the
copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to the same by his or her
signature on the copy. A second copy of the plans, similarly marked, shall be
retained by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Period of validity. Whenever within 1 year after granting a zoning
permit the work as permitted by the permit shall not have been completed, then
the permit shall become null and void unless a petition for extension of time
in which to complete the work has been granted by the City Council. The
extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the Zoning Administrator
at least 30 days before the expiration of the original zoning permit. There
shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The request for extension
shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the work permitted
in the zoning permit. The petition shall be presented to the Planning
Commission for a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision and
shall be requested only one time on a singular action. The extension shall be
granted by the City Council for a period determined sufficient to complete the
work permitted.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   Fees associated with applications and requests for this chapter
shall be as established by resolution or ordinance by the City Council.
      (2)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the
Administrator and are not refundable unless application is withdrawn prior to
referral to the Planning Commission. There shall be no fee in the case of
applications filed in the public interest by members of the Council or by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, thereof, shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. 333, passed 12-27-2004)
CHAPTER 152: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and intent
   
152.02   Permit required
   
152.03   Prohibited areas
   
152.04   Allowed tower sites
   
152.05   Application
   
152.06   Planning Commission review
   
152.07   City Council review
   
152.08   Co-location requirements
   
152.09   Exceptions to co-location requirements
   
152.10   Construction permits
   
152.11   Tower standards
   
152.12   Lighting
   
152.13   Signs and advertising
   
152.14   Interference with public safety telecommunication
   
152.15   Prohibited subdivisions
   
152.16   Accessory utility buildings
   
152.17   Ground-mounted equipment
Editor’s note: Amateur Radio Operations are governed by Federal Communications
Commission.
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The wireless telecommunication tower permit regulations are intended to:
   (A)   Reasonably accommodate the provision of wireless telecommunication
services to the general public;
   (B)   Minimize adverse visual effects of wireless telecommunication towers,
antennae, or accessory equipment through careful design and siting standards;
   (C)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failures
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   (D)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers, structures, and/or
buildings for the location of new wireless telecommunication towers in order to
reduce the number of the structures needed to accommodate wireless
telecommunication services.
§ 152.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall install a wireless telecommunication facility or any
portion thereof, at a height greater than is allowed for structures in the
underlying zoning district without first being issued a wireless
telecommunication tower permit.
   (B)   Amateur Radio Operator Towers (H.A.M. Operators) will be regulated in
compliance with F.C.C. regulations.
§ 152.04 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   Wireless telecommunication towers shall not be allowed in the following
areas:
   (A)   Residentially zoned parcels of less than 10 acres unless the wireless
telecommunication tower and ground facilities accessory thereto are located
within 100 feet of the right-of-way of a public utility transmission line;
   (B)   Open space easements or conservation easements; and/or
   (C)   Airport impact zones without consent of the F.A.A.
§ 152.05 ALLOWED TOWER SITES.
   Applicants for a wireless telecommunication tower permit shall make a
reasonable effort to locate the towers and accessory ground facilities in the
following areas:
   (A)   On an existing public utility power line support structure, within an
existing public utility power line right-of-way, or within 100 feet of the
right-of-way;
   (B)   On publicly owned property, as approved by the City Council; and/or
   (C)   On agriculturally or residentially zoned parcels greater than 10
acres.
§ 152.06 APPLICATION.
   Applications for a wireless telecommunication tower permit shall be
submitted on forms provided by the City Planner, which shall include the
following information:
   (A)   A sketch drawn to scale acceptable to the City Planner and City
Engineer which illustrates:
      (1)   The parcel on which the tower and accessory ground facilities;
      (2)   The buildings located and to be located on the tower parcel;
      (3)   The buildings located within 100 feet of the perimeter of the tower
parcel; and
      (4)   Access easements as necessary to the tower parcel.
   (B)   A sketch drawn to scale or a photo image acceptable to the City
Planner and City Engineer which illustrates the relative size of the proposed
wireless telecommunication tower or existing structure on which the antenna
will be located compared to structures located within 100 feet of the perimeter
of the parcel on which the tower is located and which illustrates the
visibility of the tower from adjoining parcels located within 100 feet of the
perimeter of the parcel on which the tower is located. The City Planner may
also require a visual impact demonstration including mock-ups and/or photo
montages and plans for painting the tower;
   (C)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
      (1)   Describes the wireless telecommunication tower height and design
including a cross-section and elevation;
      (2)   Certifies the wireless telecommunication tower's compliance with
structural and electrical standards;
      (3)   Documents the height above grade for the mounting positions, which
can be used for co-location and the minimum separation distances between the
co-location positions; and
      (4)   Describes the wireless telecommunication tower's capacity to
support antennae, including an example of the number and type of antennas that
can be accommodated on the wireless telecommunication tower.
   (D)   A 2-year plan for wireless telecommunication facilities to be located
within the city shall be submitted by the applicant. The city acknowledges that
the plans are fluid and in all likelihood will change depending upon market
demands for the service. The city will maintain an inventory of all existing
and reasonably anticipated cell site installations. The applicant shall provide
the following written information in each 2-year plan and the plan must be
updated with each submittal for a new wireless telecommunication tower permit
as necessary:
      (1)   A description of the radio frequencies to be used for each
technology;
      (2)   A list of all existing sites to be upgraded or replaced, and
proposed cell sites within the city for these services by the applicant; and
      (3)   A presentation size map of the city, which shows the 2-year plan
for cell sites, or if individual properties are not known, the geographic
service areas of the cell sites.
   (E)   The cost of mailing addresses for all property owners of record
located within 1,000 feet of the subject property to be complied by the city;
   (F)   An application fee in an amount prescribed from time to time by City
Council resolution as necessary to reimburse the city for costs incurred to
process the wireless telecommunication tower permit application;
   (G)   Confirmation that the applicant is properly licensed by the F.C.C., or
is the authorized representative of a wireless telecommunication provider
properly licensed by the F.C.C.;
   (H)   Written authorization from the property owner describing the area
which will be subject to the tower lease and acknowledging that the property
owner will be responsible for removal of the wireless telecommunication tower,
antennae, and tower accessory equipment which is unused or abandoned for 12
consecutive months;
   (I)   Documentation of the steps to be taken by applicant to avoid causing
destructive interference to co-located previously established public safety
communications facilities; and
   (J)   A detailed landscape plan, which indicates how tower accessory
equipment will be screened.
§ 152.07 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Planner shall
schedule a hearing before the Planning Commission which shall be preceded by
10-days mailed notice to the record owners of property located with 1,000 feet
of the parcel on which the tower will be located.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council
regarding the issuance of the wireless telecommunication tower permit and, in
particular, in regard to the following:
      (1)   Compliance of application with the city regulations and development
standards; and/or
      (2)   Proposed conditions, as necessary, to prevent the wireless
telecommunication tower, antennae, and tower accessory equipment from becoming
a nuisance to surrounding property owners.
§ 152.08 CITY COUNCIL REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of Planning Commission recommendations, the City Council
shall review the application. The City Council may approve the application
subject to conditions, table its review until a date certain, or deny the
application for a wireless telecommunication tower permit. If the application
is approved by the City Council, a wireless telecommunication tower permit and
a building permit shall be issued upon the execution of a wireless
telecommunication tower agreement.
   (B)   The agreement shall be signed by the applicant and property owner and
the terms of the agreement shall include the following:
      (1)   A list of the conditions of approval to the wireless
telecommunication tower permit;
      (2)   A statement indicating that failure to comply with the conditions
of approval shall result in the removal of the wireless telecommunication
tower, antennae, or tower accessory equipment;
      (3)   A statement indicating that the expenses incurred by the city to
enforce the provisions of the wireless telecommunication tower agreement shall
be reimbursed by the applicant;
      (4)   A statement, which requires the applicant to utilize the procedures
established by the F.C.C. to resolve any complaints received relating to
interference allegedly caused by the wireless telecommunication tower; and
      (5)   A statement indicating that a wireless telecommunication tower
which has not been used for 12 consecutive months shall be deemed abandoned and
may be required to be removed in the same manner and pursuant to the same
procedures as for hazardous and substandard buildings (M.S. §§ 463.15 through
463.261, as they may be amended from time to time).
§ 152.09 CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as hereinafter provided, antenna utilized to provide wireless
telecommunication services shall be located on existing towers or structures
which exceed 75 feet in height and which are located within 1/4 mile of the
antenna site being proposed by the applicant. In the event that co-location is
not possible, the applicant must demonstrate that a good faith effort to co-
locate on existing towers and structures was made but an agreement could not be
reached.
§ 152.10 EXCEPTIONS TO CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council shall waive any or all of the co-location requirements if
it is determined that:
   (A)   The antennae and/or tower accessory equipment would cause the
structural capacity of an existing or approved tower or building to be
exceeded, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer, and
the existing or approved tower or building cannot be reinforced, modified, or
replaced to accommodate the antennae or tower accessory equipment at a
reasonable cost;
   (B)   The antennae and/or tower accessory equipment would cause interference
materially impacting the usability of existing antennae or tower accessory
equipment as documented by a qualified radio frequency engineer and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
   (C)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the applicant's
search radius cannot or will not accommodate the antennae and/or tower
accessory equipment at a height necessary to function reasonably as documented
by a qualified radio frequency engineer; and/or
   (D)   Other unforeseen reasons make it infeasible to locate the antennae
and/or tower accessory equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
§ 152.11 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   All wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or located
within the city, and all wiring therefore, shall comply with the requirements
set forth in the Uniform Building Code.
§ 152.12 TOWER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Wireless telecommunication towers shall comply with the following
standards unless the City Council grants a variance as necessary to reasonably
accommodate the wireless telecommunication tower. Variance procedures shall be
processed according to the zoning code.
   (B)   (1)   Design.
         (a)   To blend into the surrounding environment through the use of
color and architectural treatment;
         (b)   To be of a monopole design unless the City Council determines
that an alternative design would better blend into the surrounding environment;
         (c)   All proposed wireless telecommunication tower shall be designed,
structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate both the
applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least 2 additional users if
the tower is over 100 feet in height or for at least 1 additional user if the
tower is between 75 feet and 100 feet in height; and
         (d)   Where possible, all proposed wireless telecommunication towers
must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower
and to accept antennas mounted at various heights.
      (2)   Setbacks from lot lines.
         (a)   In all residential zoning districts, wireless telecommunication
towers shall be set back 1 foot for each foot of tower height plus 20 feet.
         (b)   In all zoning districts, towers may encroach into the rear or
side yard setback areas, provided that the rear or side yard property line
abuts a commercial or business zoned property and the wireless
telecommunication tower does not encroach upon any easements.
         (c)   Wireless telecommunication towers shall not be located between a
principal structure and a public street.
         (d)   A required setback may be reduced or its location in relation to
a public street varied, at the sole discretion of the City Council, to allow
for the integration of a wireless telecommunication tower with an existing or
proposed structure such as a church steeple, power line support device, or
light standard.
         (e)   A required setback may be reduced or its location in relation to
a public street varied upon providing the city with a licensed professional
engineer's certification that the wireless telecommunication tower is designed
to collapse or fail within a distance or zone shorter than the required setback
distance.
      (3)   Height.
         (a)   In all residential zoning districts, the maximum height of any
wireless telecommunication tower including all antennas and other attachments,
shall not exceed 1 foot for each 1 foot the tower is setback from a residential
dwelling unit up to a maximum of 195 feet for parcels of 40 acres or more and
125 feet for parcels between 10 to 40 acres in size.
         (b)   In all non-residential zoning districts, wireless
telecommunication tower and antennae shall not exceed 195 feet in height above
ground for a freestanding wireless telecommunication tower, and 195 feet in
height above ground as measured by the lowest ground elevation adjacent to a
building on which the tower/antenna is located, including all antennas and
other attachments where the zoning district is adjacent to a residential zoning
district. The setback from a common lot line shall be 2 feet for each 1 foot of
tower height.
§ 152.13 LIGHTING.
   At night, wireless telecommunication towers shall not be illuminated by
artificial means.
§ 152.14 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   The use of any portion of a wireless telecommunication tower for signs other
than warning or equipment information sign is prohibited.
§ 152.15 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATION.
   No wireless telecommunication facility shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All wireless telecommunication towers/antennas shall comply
with F.C.C. regulations and licensing requirements.
§ 152.16 PROHIBITED SUBDIVISIONS.
   Where a wireless telecommunication facility has been located on a
residentially or agriculturally zoned parcel greater than 10 acres, except when
the facility is located within a power line easement, or within 100 feet of the
easement, the parcels shall not be further subdivided unless the resulting
parcel on which the wireless telecommunication facility is located continues to
be more than 10 acres in size.
§ 152.17 ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS.
   All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment.
§ 152.18 GROUND-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT.
   All ground mounted equipment accessory to a wireless telecommunication tower
shall be enclosed in a building with brick walls and have a dark colored
standing seam metal roof and be further screened with sufficient trees, as
determined by the City Planner, and shrubs to substantially reduce the visual
impact.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     12-9-  Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC to construct, operate and
314  2002   maintain a cable communications system in the city for a period of 15
            years.
361  6-8-   Granting a franchise to Farmer’s Mutual Telephone Company to construct,
     2009   operate, and maintain a cable communications system in the city.
375  10-10- Granting Minnesota Energy Resources, a subsidiary of WEC Energy Group, a
     2016   natural gas franchise.
382  2-26-  Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota, LLC to construct, operate,
     2018   and maintain a cable communications system in the city.
           
 
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
351  3-12-  Vacating a portion of Pleasant Drive situated in Swenson’s third
     2007   addition.
370  2-13-  Vacating a portion of an alley situated in Galle’s first addition.
     2015
           
           
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section             Code Section
12.25                    32.01,
                         32.04
12.31                    32.06
14.57 - 14.70            112.36,
                         112.99
84.81 - 84.91            72.01
84.872                   72.06
88.16 - 88.22            92.63
103I.301 - 103I.345      53.70
105.42                   151.199
115.01(8)                52.001
115.07                   52.001
116.07                   90.25
144.391                  115.01
144.951                  151.003
145A.03                  114.01
152.02                   94.04
152.0263, Subd. 5        95.03
157.16                   112.03,
                         112.22
157.16, Subd. 3d         112.03
161.242                  90.16
168.10                   90.16
Ch. 168B                 90.15
                         70.01,
                         72.01,
Ch. 169                  73.01,
                         73.06,
                         73.20
169.01, Subd. 3          70.09
169.01                   90.16
169.041                  90.16,
                         90.18
169.045. Subd. 7         73.06,
                         73.25
169.222                  74.26
169.522                  73.06,
                         73.25
169.69                   70.07
169.693                  70.07
216B.097                 50.08
216B.0975                50.09
237.162                  93.29
237.163                  93.29
245A.01 - 245A.18        151.003
260.15                   130.03
272.115, Subd. 1         52.020
275.065                  33.01
260.185                  130.99
275.065                  33.01
300.06                   93.23
326.40                   53.70
326.40, Subd. 2          53.70
327.10 - 327.28          151.201
327.15                   151.062
327.31                   151.003
327.31 - 327.35          151.200
Ch. 329                  113.03
                         112.01,
                         112.02,
Ch. 340A                 112.23,
                         112.36,
                         112.99,
                         117.03
340A.101                 112.03,
                         112.22
340A.14, Subd. 6         112.22
340A.401, Subd. 1        112.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4)     112.55
340A.404, Subd. 4a       112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b       112.22
340A.404, Subd. 5        112.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b       112.22
340A.408, Subd. 5        112.23
340A.409                 112.25,
                         112.53
340A.413                 112.54
340A.414                 112.35
340A.504, Subd. 3        112.22
340A.504, Subd. 3c       112.22
340A.509                 112.02
340A.801                 112.25
342.0263, Subd. 5        95.01
342.09, SUbd. 1(2)       95.03
324.09, Subd. 1(7)(iii)  95.03
342.09, Subd. 1(7)(b)(9) 95.03
347.151                  91.12
347.51                   91.12
412.111                  31.01
412.141                  30.02
412.191                  Charter §
                         3.10
412.591                  30.01
415.11                   30.03
Ch. 429                  150.002,
                         151.203
                         92.01,
429.101                  92.02,
                         92.48,
                         94.10
444.075                  54.01
444.075, Subd. 3         54.05
462.358                  150.002
462.3593                 151.207
462.3593, Subd. 9        151.207
Ch. 463                  94.10
463.15 - 463.26          92.01
463.15 - 463.261         152.08
469.190                  33.50
Ch. 471                  150.002
471.195                  90.01
471.345                  33.22,
                         33.27
471.6965                 33.01
471.6985                 112.52
Ch. 505                  150.002,
                         150.056
505.03, Subd. 2          150.058
505.3, Subd. 2           150.058
514.67                   92.01
515.01 - 515.19          151.003
609.02, Subd. 3          94.98
609.2246, Subd. 2        114.01
609.72                   117.06
617.241                  115.45
617.291 - 617.296        115.46
617.80 - 617.87          115.27
624.20, Subd. 1(c)       130.04
624.717                  130.02
626.84, Subd.1           95.99
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules             Code Section
1300.2400, subpart 6    52.003
Ch. 4715                52.003,
                        53.30
Ch. 4725                53.06
6100.5000 - 6100.6000   72.01
7030.1000 - 7030.1050   70.07
7030.1050               70.07
7030.1060               70.07
Ch. 7035                90.15
Ch. 7080                52.035,
                        52.037
Ch. 7819                93.21
7819.0100 subps. 1 - 23 93.21
7819.100                93.25
7819.1000 subp. 3       93.22
7819.1100               93.26,
                        93.29
7819.1250               93.38
7819.1300               93.30
7819.3000               93.26
7819.3100               93.35
7819.3200               93.37
7819.4000               93.34
7819.4100               93.34
7819.5000               93.35
7819.5100               93.35
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     71.06,
—      - -         71.09,
                     71.10,
                     71.11
—      - -         91.06
                     94.01 -
—      - -         94.11,
                     94.98
—      - -         130.03
243      4-17-2001   73.01 -
                     73.08
                     115.01,
                     115.02,
300      1-28-2002   115.20 -
                     115.29,
                     115.45 -
                     115.49
301      2-11-2002   33.04
303      2-11-2002   33.02
306      3-11-2002   33.01
307      3-11-2002   33.03
                     33.20 -
302      3-25-2002   33.26,
                     33.30
308      4-8-2002    130.03
305      6-10-2002   54.01 -
                     54.05
310      8-12-2002   52.006
314      12-9-2002   T.S.O. I
317      8-25-2003   11.01
                     Charter §§
                     1.01,
                     1.02,
318      9-22-2003   2.01 -
                     2.09,
                     3.01 -
                     3.11
                     Charter §§
                     4.01 -
319      11-10-2003  4.04,
                     5.01 -
                     5.06
320      11-24-2003  31.01,
                     31.02
321      11-24-2003  30.01
322      11-24-2003  30.02
                     Charter §§
323      11-24-2003  6.01 -
                     6.05
328      6-23-2004   30.20 -
                     30.27
                     50.01 -
311      6-28-2004   50.07,
                     50.10 -
                     50.16
                     Charter §§
329      7-26-2004   7.01 -
                     7.13
                     Charter §§
                     8.01 -
330      7-26-2004   8.03,
                     9.01,
                     10.01 -
                     10.05
                     Charter §§
                     11.01 -
331      8-9-2004    11.04,
                     12.01 -
                     12.12
317      8-23-2004   92.15 -
                     92.26
332      11-8-2004   34.01
311A     12-27-2004  50.04
                     151.001 -
                     151.008,
                     151.020 -
                     151.025,
                     151.040 -
                     151.047,
                     151.060 -
                     151.066,
                     151.080 -
                     151.086,
                     151.100 -
                     151.107,
                     151.120 -
333      12-27-2004  151.125,
                     151.140 -
                     151.150,
                     151.165 -
                     151.170,
                     151.185 -
                     151.206,
                     151.220 -
                     151.224,
                     151.235 -
                     151.241,
                     151.255 -
                     151.257,
                     151.999
                     150.001 -
                     150.012,
                     150.025,
                     150.026,
                     150.040 -
334      12-27-2004  150.042,
                     150.055 -
                     150.060,
                     150.075 -
                     150.081,
                     150.095 -
                     150.999
325      1-1-2005    30.03
338      12-27-2005  130.05
345      6-26-2006   73.20 -
                     73.27
346      6-26-2006   73.01 -
                     73.08
347      12-18-2006  34.01
348      2-12-2007   71.04
350      3-12-2007   50.15
351      3-12-2007   T.S.O. II
352      10-22-2007  73.01 -
                     73.08
353      12-10-2007  Adopting Ordinance
                     112.01 -
                     112.05,
                     112.20 -
354      1-14-2008   112.36,
                     112.50 -
                     112.54,
                     112.99
355      3-10-2009   51.02
359      11-24-2008  50.15
361      6-8-2009    T.S.O. I
362      6-22-2009   92.42,
                     92.47
363      10-12-2009  73.01
364      10-12-2009  70.07
365      10-12-2009  55.01 -
                     55.14
                     92.70 -
367      11-23-2009  92.75,
                     92.99
368      7-8-2013    151.065,
                     151.085
369      11-10-2014  71.14
370      2-13-2015   T.S.O. II
371      3-14-2016   151.190
373      4-11-2016   91.17
374      8-8-2016    151.207
375      10-10-2016  T.S.O. I
377      1-23-2017   52.062
378      2-27-2017   Adopting Ordinance
380      10-9-2017   30.03
381      1-8-2018    33.50
382      2-26-2018   T.S.O. I
383      2-26-2018   33.05
384      10-14-2019  33.27
385      4-27-2020   52.020
386      4-26-2021   92.24
                     95.01-
387      8-14-2023   95.03,
                     95.99
                    
 
 
