MADISON LAKE, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY COUNCIL
MAYOR              Al Dorn
                   
MEMBER             Mark Bisch
MEMBER             Ryan Sanders
MEMBER             Laurinda Sohre
MEMBER             Patricia Burt
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY ATTORNEY      Jason Moran Christian, Keogh, Moran
CITY ADMINISTRATOR Jeff Shoobridge
CLERK/TREASURER    Jenny Kern
POLICE CHIEF       Phil Wills
FIRE CHIEF         Matt Lee
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
 
      
Appendix A: Resolution to Adopt a Schedule of Offenses and Voluntary
Administrative Penalties
      
Appendix B: Notice of Code Violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Madison
Lake, Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance,
annexation, or other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in
this code may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Blue Earth County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
    It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed
notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in
control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk-Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in Appendix A of this chapter.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost-effective, and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)    Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code may be established from time to time by resolution of a majority of the
members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an administrative
penalty for a particular violation must be established before the violation
occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Treasurer, or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a
written notice of an alleged violation, sent by first-class mail to the person
who is alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request
the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to
the City Clerk-Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A
sample notice is contained in Appendix B of this chapter. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its City Attorney,
may bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code.
Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first
instance, rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even
if a penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX A: RESOLUTION TO ADOPT A SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES
AND VOLUNTARY ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
   WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to adopt the provisions of Madison Lake
City Code §
10.98, establishing a procedure for requesting the voluntary payment of
administrative penalties for certain violations of the code; and
   WHEREAS, the provisions of Madison Lake City Code §
10.98 authorize the City Council, by a resolution adopted by a majority of its
members, to identify administrative offenses and establish penalties for these
offenses;
   NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council as follows:
   The City Council hereby adopts the provisions of Madison Lake City Code §
10.98 and adopts the following administrative penalties:
Code Section Offense                           Amount of Administrative Penalty
             All offenses for which an
             administrative penalty may be     $ 75
             established under this code,
             other than those specified below:
Traffic
70.314       Basic speed                       $ 55
             Speeding                          $ 70
70.314       1-10 mph over                     $ 80
             11-14 mph over                    $ 90
             15-19 mph over
70.314(1)    Inattentive driving               $ 70
70.318(4)    Passing on right when prohibited  $ 80
70.318(5)    Unsafe passing on left            $ 80
70.318(6)    Wrong way in a one-way            $ 80
70.318(8)    Following too closely             $ 80
70.320       Fail to yield to right-of-way     $ 80
70.320(5)    Fail to yield to emergency        $100
             vehicle
70.321(2)    Fail to yield to pedestrian in    $ 80
             crosswalk
70.330       Disobeying stop sign              $ 80
Traffic (Cont’d)
70.334       Parking in front of private, intersection, etc. $ 25
70.334       Parking in front of fire hydrant                $ 25
70.3345 1(3) Parking for handicap                            $140
70.337       Obstructing view of driver                      $ 70
70.346       Hitch sleds, etc., behind motor vehicle         $ 80
70.347       Unsafe equipment                                $ 70
70.348       Drive without headlights                        $ 70
70.349       Headlights required                             $ 70
70.350       Rear lamps                                      $ 70
70.357       Fail to provide signal or stop lamps            $ 70
70.369       Loud muffler                                    $ 70
70.371       Tint or cracked windshield                      $ 80
70.3724      Unsafe tires                                    $ 80
70.379       Covers on license plates                        $ 60
70.3974(2)   Driving without or in violation of MC End.      $ 80
70.3974(4)   Helmet under 18 & driver eye protection         $ 80
70.309       Expired plates                                  $ 70
70.3686q     Seatbelt                                        $ 65
70.3A35(3)   Allow open bottle                               $175
Other
110.06       Underage possession                             $120
110.06       Underage consumption, 1st offense               $170
Snowmobile
70.22        Snowmobile prohibited acts                      $ 70
70.82(1a)    Unregistered snowmobile                         $ 80
70.87(1)     Operate against traffic in the dark             $ 70
70.20        Improper crossing (failure to yield, etc.)      $ 70
 
Snowmobile (Cont’d)
70.22(B)   Careless                                           $110
70.872     Allow illegal operation by a JV                    $ 80
70.23(E)   Operate without helmet under 18                    $ 80
Off-Road Motorcycle
70.788(3)  Registration/decal                                 $ 50
70.788(3)  Operate/allow operation by JV                      $ 70
70.795     Operate on public highway                          $ 80
70.795(2)  Operate carelessly                                 $115
All-Terrain Vehicle
70.922     Registration on ATV                                $ 80
70.924(2)  Fail to display registration                       $ 50
70.9256(2) Operate ATV without helmet under 18                $ 70
70.9256(3) Allow illegal operation of ATV by JV               $ 80
70.928     Operate ATV on public highway                      $ 80
70.928     More passengers than designed for                  $120
70.928(2)  Careless                                           $120
Ordinances
70.03      Parking duration 24-hour                           $ 50
70.02      Exhibition driving                                 $ 60
93.002     Public nuisance affecting health                   $ 50
93.004     Public nuisance affecting peace and safety (noise) $ 50
93.005     Public nuisance parking and storage                $ 50
93.006     Inoperable motor vehicles                          $ 50
93.007     Building maintenance/appearance                    $ 80
93.025     Weed elimination                                   $ 50
93.01      Open burning violation                             $ 50
94.02      Junk/abandoned motor vehicles storing & parking    $ 50
 
Ordinances (Cont’d)
91.02  Dog or cat running at large             $ 30
91.03  Animal pound fee, transport             $ 35
91.04  License required for dogs and cats      $ 30
91.09  Dog nuisances                           $ 30
91.10  Animals presenting danger/health/safety $ 100
93.11  Litter                                  $ 100
91.12  Basic care                              $ 40
91.13  Interference with Animal Officer        $ 80
91.00  Maximum number of dogs (2 dogs)         $ 50
92.03  Park General conduct                    $ 45
130.03 Weapons                                 $ 50
130.02 Indecent conduct                        $ 70
130.05 Trespass                                $ 50
130.06 Curfew violation                        $ 25
130.01 Disturbing the peace                    $ 50
       FALSE ALARM                             $ 50
 
   EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the resolution is the date of its
passage by a majority of the members of the City Council. Passage of this
resolution implements the provisions of Madison Lake City Code §
10.98.
Mayor:                                                          
Attest:                                                           
      City Clerk-Treasurer
(Res. passed – –, Am. Res. 2007-384, passed 12-17-2007)
APPENDIX B: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of § ____ of the Madison Lake City Code, relating to
(give title of section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated § _____ of the
Madison Lake City Code relating to
_______________________________________________________________________________________.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
   (Name and title of person giving notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
Section
Mayor and Council
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions, and communications
   
30.07   Committees
   
30.08   Suspension or amendment of the rules
   
30.09   Terms and transition
   
30.10   Salaries
Officials
   
30.25   Clerk-Treasurer; annual audits
   
30.26   Administrator position established
   
30.27   Duties of the Administrator
MAYOR AND COUNCIL
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings; generally. Regular meetings of the City Council
shall be held on the first and third Mondays of each calendar month at 7:00
p.m. or the day and time as the Council approved at a regular meeting from time
to time. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next
following business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including
adjourned meetings, shall be held at 525 Main, the Community Center.
   (B)   Schedule of regular meetings. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare
and keep a schedule of regularly planned meetings of the City Council, Planning
Commission, or other boards. This schedule shall be updated annually January 1.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings must be preceded by 3-day posted
notice as 3-day mailed notice to regular board members and any person
requesting particular notice of special meetings. Three-day published notice of
special meetings may be an alternative to the posted and mailed notice.
   (D)   Emergency meetings. Emergency meetings of the City Council may be
called on less than 3-days notice for any matter, which, in the judgment of the
public body, requires immediate consideration. A good faith effort shall be
made to provide notice to any news media that has requested notification.
   (E)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose 1 of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in the case of a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed, and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint the officers and employees and the members of boards,
commissions, and committees as may be necessary.
   (F)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Clerk-Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and shall preside
until the Council members present at the meeting choose 1 of their number to
act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the members may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or
her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of the presiding officer. Whenever the presiding officer
desires to speak on a question or second any motion, he or she shall not vacate
the chair. To make any motion, he or she shall vacate the chair, designate the
Acting Mayor or, in his or her absence, some other Council member to preside
temporarily, and shall not, resume the chair until the matter under
consideration has been acted upon by the Council.
   (E)   Attendance.
      (1)   Penalties for absences of elected Council members may be imposed
for non-justified absences by a deduction of 1/2 of the monthly meeting salary.
      (2)   Failure to participate in Council activities for 3 months is
sufficient grounds to declare abandonment of office. A vacancy may be declared
by Council when the office holder is unable to serve in the office or attend
Council meetings for 90 days because of illness; or because of absence from or
refusal to attend Council meetings for a 90-day period.
      (3)   The Council may, after declaring a vacancy exists, fill the vacancy
at a regular or special Council meeting for the remainder of the unexpired
term, or until the person is again able to resume duties and attend Council
meetings. If the person is able to resume duties, the Council shall by
resolution remove the temporary office holder and restore the original office
holder.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who writes. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the
Clerk-Treasurer, or in his or her absence, by the Deputy Clerk-Treasurer. In
the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary Pro Tem.
Ordinances, resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in the minutes if they
appear in other permanent records of the Clerk-Treasurer and can be accurately
identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer, and copies thereof shall be
delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At
the next regular meeting following the delivery, approval of the minutes shall
be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Generally. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the time and
place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted to include the
following:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Consent agenda;
      (5)   Petitions, requests, communications, and citizen input;
      (6)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer; but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of the hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an agenda of business for
each regular Council meeting and file a copy in his or her office not later
than 1 or 2 days before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance
with the order of business and copies thereof shall be delivered to each
Council member and posted as far in advance of the meeting as time for
preparation will permit. No item of business shall be considered unless it
appears on the agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda
by a unanimous vote of the Council members present.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a presence of 3 Council members
elected constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller
number may adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payment of judgments, claims, and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present, but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“Present-Not Voting.”
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS, AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing and shall be read in full before a vote is taken thereon; but reading
in full may be dispensed with by unanimous consent. All motions shall be
recorded in the minutes and stated in full before they are submitted to a vote
by the presiding officer. All petitions and other communications addressed to
the Council shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation of
the same to the Council. They shall then be recorded in the minutes by title
and filed with the minutes in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer,
and filed by the Clerk-Treasurer in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
every publication of every ordinance shall be attached to and filed with the
ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed
in whole or in part. No ordinance or resolution or section or subdivision
thereof shall be amended by reference to the title alone, but such an amending
ordinance or resolution shall set forth in full each section or subdivision to
be amended.
   (D)   Issuance of citations. Except as otherwise provided by statute, only a
peace officer and part-time peace officer may:
      (1)   Issue a citation; or
      (2)   Take a person into custody as permitted by M.S. § 629.34, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Individuals employed by the city who may issue citations for violation
of city ordinances. The following city individuals may issue citations in lieu
of arrest or continued detention for violation of city ordinances. Areas of
jurisdiction will be contained in city policy as set forth in resolution form
by the City Council:
      (1)   Peace officers and part-time peace officers;
      (2)   Building Inspector; and
      (3)   Fire Inspector officers.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   All committees shall be appointed by the Mayor upon his or her own
initiative or upon the majority vote of all the members of the Council.
   (B)   Each committee shall consist of 3 members of the Council, and the
Chairperson of each committee shall be designated by the Mayor. Each committee
member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a majority of the members of
the Council.
   (C)   Any matter brought before the Council for consideration may be
referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate committee or to a special
committee appointed by him or her for a written report and recommendation
before it is considered by the Council as a whole. Each committee report shall
be signed by a majority of the members and shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to the Council meeting at which it is to be submitted. Each
committee shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF THE RULES.
   These rules, or any of them, may be temporarily suspended by a majority vote
of all the Council members, and shall not be repealed or amended except by a
majority vote of the whole Council after notice has been given at some
preceding Council meeting.
(Ord. 190, passed 4-21-1997)
§ 30.09 TERMS AND TRANSITION.
   As of 1976, 2 Council members shall be elected to 4-year terms to include
all proceeding years and as of 1978, 2 Council members shall be elected to 4-
year terms to include all proceeding years. The Mayor’s term shall be a 4-year
term commencing in 2002 to include all proceeding years.
§ 30.10 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the Mayor and members of Council shall be set by the City
Council from time to time.
OFFICIALS
§ 30.25 CLERK-TREASURER; ANNUAL AUDITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by Laws 1961, Chapter 230, the
Offices of Clerk and Treasurer in the City of Madison Lake, Blue Earth County,
Minnesota, are hereby combined in the Office of Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective and
each year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs
by the State Auditor or a public accountant in accordance with minimum auditing
procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
   (C)   This section is effective upon passage by the City Council.
(Ord. 95, passed 9-2-1980; Am. Ord. 21, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 30.26 ADMINISTRATOR POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the position of City Administrator for the City
of Madison Lake. This section and duties become effective upon the adoption by
the Council.
   (A)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall have the same general
qualifications for municipal service as other city employees pursuant to city
personnel policies.
   (B)   Appointment. Appointment shall be made by the City Council solely
based on executive, administrative, education, and experiential qualifications.
Unless otherwise indicated by this section or action of the City Council, the
City Administrator shall be subject to any adopted city personnel policy.
   (C)   Purpose. This section is to provide for a reorganization of the
administration of the city so as to provide more clearly the duties and
responsibilities of various positions and to make the administration more
efficient.
   (D)   Establishment. 
      (1)   The position of Administrator is hereby established and that person
shall be the chief executive officer of the municipality.
      (2)   The Administrator shall be chosen by a majority of the City
Council. Terms, conditions and tenure of employment of that person shall be
determined by written contract entered into with the city. The position of City
Administrator shall be terminable at the will and pleasure of the City Council.
(Ord. 21, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 30.27 DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Administrator shall be:
   (A)   The City Administrator shall be the chief executive officer of the
city and shall be responsible to the City Council for the proper administration
of the duties set forth in this section and all affairs of the city. Subject to
City Council regulations and applicable laws, the Administrator shall control
and direct the administration of municipal affairs;
   (B)   The Administrator shall see that all laws, ordinances and resolutions
of the city are enforced.
   (C)   The Administrator shall supervise the activities of all municipal
department heads and personnel of the city in the administration of municipal
policy. The Administrator shall recommend the employment and removal of city
personnel. The City Administrator shall ensure periodic evaluation and review
of all city employees, and scheduling of work;
   (D)   The Administrator shall attend and participate in all meetings of the
City Council;
   (E)   The Administrator shall be responsible for the preparation of the City
Council agenda and recommend to the City Council measures as the Administrator
may deem necessary for the welfare of the citizens and efficient administration
of the city;
   (F)   The Administrator shall prepare an annual fiscal budget and capital
improvement plan for the City Council. The Administrator shall maintain
financial guidelines for the municipality within the scope of the approved
budget and capital program. The Administrator shall submit reports to the City
Council on the financial condition of municipal accounts and make sure the
annual financial statement is prepared in accordance with Minnesota Statutes;
   (G)   The Administrator shall handle all personnel matters for the city in
conjunction with policy established by the City Council. The Administrator
shall negotiate or delegate the negotiation of terms and conditions of employee
labor contracts for presentation to the City Council;
   (H)   The Administrator shall represent the city at official functions as
directed by the City Council and maintain good public relations with the
citizens of the community;
   (I)   The Administrator shall act as purchasing agent for the city and be
responsible in making all purchases in accordance with the approved municipal
budget. The Administrator shall have the authority to sign purchase orders for
routine services, equipment and supplies for which the aggregate cost does not
exceed $5,000. All claims resulting from orders placed by the city shall be
audited for payment by the City Council. The Administrator shall negotiate
contracts for any kind of merchandise, materials, equipment or construction
work for presentation to the City Council;
   (J)   The Administrator shall coordinate municipal programs and activities
as directed by City Council;
   (K)   The Administrator shall monitor all consultant and contract work
performed for the city;
   (L)   The Administrator shall coordinate the activities of the City
Attorney;
   (M)   The Administrator shall be informed regarding federal, state and
county programs which affect the municipality;
   (N)   The Administrator shall consult with officials of both public and
private agencies as may be required;
   (O)   The Administrator shall inform the City Council on matters dealing
with the administration of the city and prepare and submit to the City Council
for adoption an administrative code encompassing the details of administrative
procedure;
   (P)   The Administrator shall be required to take an oath of office and
shall be bonded at city expense through a position bond which will indemnify
the municipality; and
   (Q)   The Administrator shall perform other duties as may be prescribed by
law or required of the Administrator by ordinance or resolutions adopted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 21, passed 9-5-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 8-17-2020)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.01   Creation
   
31.02   Membership; generally
   
31.03   Charter members
   
31.04   New members
   
31.05   Officers
   
31.06   Meetings
   
31.07   Chief
   
31.08   Additional officers
   
31.09   Cooperation with city
   
31.10   Bylaws
   
31.11   Fire calls outside city
   
31.12   Firefighters Relief Association
   
31.13   Standard of conduct; use of alcohol and controlled substance
Planning Commission
   
31.25   Qualifications of Planning Commission members
   
31.26   Removal from office; vacancies
   
31.27   Officers, rules, employees, salaries, and expenses
   
31.28   Appropriations, fees, and other income
   
31.29   Functions, powers, and duties
   
31.30   Plat approval by Commission
   
31.31   Rules and procedures
Economic Development Authority
   
31.35   Functions, powers, and duties
   
31.36   Qualifications of Economic Development Authority members
   
31.37   Removal from office; vacancies
   
31.38   Officers, rules, employees, salaries, and expenses
   
31.39   Appropriations, fees, and other income
   
31.40   Rules and procedures
Police Department
   
31.45   Establishment
   
31.46   Rules and regulations
Police Reserve
   
31.60   Establishment
   
31.61   Rules and regulations
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 CREATION.
   For the proper protection of the lives and property of the Citizens of the
City of Madison Lake there is hereby created a Volunteer Fire Department, to be
known as the Madison Lake Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP; GENERALLY.
   The Department shall consist of as many people as may be from time to time
deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.03 CHARTER MEMBERS.
   There having been for some time, and now is a Fire Department in existence,
and functioning in this city, this subchapter is adopted for the purpose of
perpetuating the present Department, and all officers and members thereof,
shall be considered as charter members thereof, and all present officers of the
same shall hold their respective offices until the next regular annual meeting
of the Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.04 NEW MEMBERS.
   Aside from the regular members now in the Department, as vacancies occur, or
as it may be deemed for the good of the service, new or additional members may
be accepted into the Department. The election of members, qualifications
required, and other regulations as to new members shall be prescribed in the
bylaws of the Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.05 OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Department shall be a Chief and 1 Assistant Chief, a
President, a Vice President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer and 3 Trustees, all
of which shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Department. Other
offices and committees may be provided for in the bylaws. The Chief and his or
her Assistant may hold the Offices of President and Vice President, or any
other office of the Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.06 MEETINGS.
   The annual meeting of the Department shall be held on the second Monday in
September of each year. The monthly meetings shall be held on the second and
third Wednesday of each month. Special meetings may be called as provided for
in the bylaws.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.07 CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief, or in his or her absence the Assistant Chief, shall
exercise complete control of the Department, have supervision over all
apparatus and other equipment, examine the same as often as necessary and see
to it that it is properly kept, cared for, and placed.
   (B)   The Chief shall order drills or practices as often as is advisable,
and see to it that all members of the Department understand their work. He or
she shall have full power and absolute control at all fires, and his or her
authority shall be absolute in every respect.
   (C)   He or she shall, in January of each year, make a report of the fire
calls answered by the Department, within and outside of the city limits,
stating the approximate loss or damage.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.08 ADDITIONAL OFFICERS.
   The Department may, from time to time, create the other officers, captains,
lieutenants, and the like, as may be necessary for the efficiency of the
Department.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.09 COOPERATION WITH CITY.
   The city officials and Council members shall at all times fully cooperate
with the Department, and see to it that the firefighters are properly equipped
with the apparatus and appliances as may be necessary to make it possible for
efficiency of the Department in the protection of life and property of the
citizens at large, and that the Department has proper quarters for its
meetings.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.10 BYLAWS.
   The Department shall adopt their own regulations and bylaws and, when so
adopted, report them to the Council for approval.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.11 FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The Department is hereby authorized to answer fire calls outside of the city
limits, and when so doing, shall be considered as on duty as firefighters of
this city.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.12 FIREFIGHTERS RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The present organization of the Firefighters Relief Association is hereby
approved.
(Ord. 53, passed 9-20-1956)
§ 31.13 STANDARD OF CONDUCT; USE OF ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   Alcohol and controlled substance; off duty. When a firefighter has
consumed alcoholic beverages in an off-duty situation, and the need arises for
fire services or rescue services, he or she shall so advise his or her
supervisor upon response to an alarm. A firefighter who has consumed alcoholic
beverages shall not be a driver of 1 of the city vehicles.
   (B)   Alcohol and controlled substance; on duty. Members shall not store,
possess, or consume alcoholic beverages or controlled substances while on duty,
except when authorized by a supervisor in the performance of duty or when
prescribed for personal use by a licensed physician or dentist.
      (1)   Any member who is taking a controlled substance prescribed by a
doctor shall inform his or her supervisor of the substance and frequency of
ingestion.
      (2)   Members shall not appear for duty or be on duty while under the
influence of intoxicants as established by State of Minnesota regulations.
   (C)   Firefighters reporting for duty. Members shall report for duty at the
time and place required by assignment or orders and shall be physically and
mentally fit to perform their duties. They shall be properly equipped and
cognizant of information required for the proper performance of duty so that
they may immediately assume the duties. Page call shall constitute an order to
report for duty.
   (D)   Attention to duty. A firefighter carries responsibility for the safety
of the community and fellow firefighters. He or she discharges that
responsibility by the faithful and diligent performance of his or her assigned
duty. Anything less violates the trust placed in him or her by the public and
will not be tolerated by the Fire Department.
(1970 Code, § 115:25)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.25 QUALIFICATIONS OF PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of the number of members as
determined and appointed by the Madison Lake City Council from among residents
of Madison Lake.
   (B)   Terms of office for members shall be for 3 years. The City Council may
appoint an ex officio member to serve as liaison with the Planning Commission
to the City Council. If this appointment is made from members of the City
Council, the term of office shall terminate with the office from which ex
officio is derived.
   (C)   Members other than ex officio shall be appointed from among persons in
a position to represent the general public interest, and no person shall be
appointed with private or personal interest likely to conflict with the general
public interest. If any person appointed shall find that private or personal
interests are involved in any matter coming before the Commission, that person
shall disqualify himself or herself from taking part in any action on this
matter, or be disqualified by the Chairperson of the Commission.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.26 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Any member of the Commission may be removed from office for just cause and
on written charges by a 4/5 vote of the City Council, but the member shall be
entitled to a public hearing before the vote is taken. In addition, any member
may be removed for non-attendance at Planning Commission meetings without
action by the City Council according to the rules adopted by the Planning
Commission. It shall be the duty of the Chairperson of the Commission to notify
the City Council promptly of any vacancies occurring in membership, and the
City Council shall fill the vacancies within 60 days for the unexpired term of
the original appointment.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.27 OFFICERS, RULES, EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among those of its members who are not appointed ex officio, and may create the
other offices as it may determine. All members, including ex officio members,
shall be entitled to vote. Terms of all elected offices shall be for 1 year,
with eligibility for re-election.
   (B)   The Commission shall adopt rules for its governance and for the
transaction of its business, and shall keep a record of attendance at its
meetings and of resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations showing
the vote of each member of each question requiring a vote, or if absent or
abstaining from voting indicating the fact. The records of the Commission shall
be public record.
   (C)   Subject to approval of the City Council and within limits set by
appropriations or other funds made available, the Commission may employ the
staff, technicians, and experts as may be deemed proper, and may incur the
other expenses as may be necessary and proper for the conduct of its affairs.
   (D)   Members of the Commission shall receive the sum of $25 for each duly
called meeting of the Planning Commission they attend.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 6-1-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-
05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.28 APPROPRIATIONS, FEES, AND OTHER INCOME.
   The City Council shall make available to the Commission the appropriations
as it may see fit for compensation, fees, and expenses necessary in the conduct
of its work. The Commission shall have the authority to expend all sums so
appropriated and other sums made available for its use from grants, gifts, and
other sources for the purposes and activities authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.29 FUNCTIONS, POWERS, AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The functions, powers, and duties of the Planning Commission shall be
in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form the basic information and
background data as is necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and keep current a comprehensive general plan for
meeting present requirements and the future needs as may be foreseen;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action affecting
development in the City of Madison Lake and its environs;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council ordinances,
regulations, and other proposals promoting orderly development along lines
indicated as desirable by the comprehensive plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements for the comprehensive plan and the ordinances;
      (6)   To keep the City Council and the general public informed and
advised as to all planning and development matters;
      (7)   To conduct the public hearings as may be required to gather
information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance of the
comprehensive plan and ordinances and regulations related to it, and to
establish public committees for the purpose of collecting and compiling
information necessary for the plan, or for the purpose of promoting the
accomplishment of the plan in whole or part; and
      (8)   To perform other duties which may be lawfully assigned to it, or
which may have bearing on the preparation or accomplishment of the plan.
   (B)   In connection with its duties, and within the limit of list funds, the
Commission may make, cause to be made, or obtain maps, aerial photographs and
surveys, and special studies on the location, condition, and adequacy of
specific facilities of the city and, as appropriate, its environs, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Studies on housing;
      (2)   Commercial and industrial facilities;
      (3)   Economic development;
      (4)   Parks and trails;
      (5)   Playgrounds and other recreational facilities;
      (6)   Schools;
      (7)   Public and private utilities; and
      (8)   Traffic, transportation, and parking.
   (C)   All city employees shall, upon request, and within a reasonable time,
furnish to the Commission or its employees or agents such available records or
information as may be required in its work. The Commission, or its employees or
agents, may in the performance of official duties enter upon lands and make
examinations or surveys in the same manner as other authorized city agents or
employees, and shall have the other powers as are required for the performance
of official functions in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 6-1-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-
05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.30 PLAT APPROVAL BY COMMISSION.
   As soon as a major street plan is adopted by the Commission and subdivision
regulations have been adopted by the City Council, it shall become the
responsibility of the Commission to pass upon all proposed new or amended plats
coming directly or indirectly under the jurisdiction of the city. No new plat,
and no amendment or vacation of an existing plat or portion thereof, shall
thereafter be recorded without the approval of the Commission.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.31 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A quorum for any meeting or hearing of the Planning Commission shall
be a majority of the voting members of the Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may set such rules and procedures as are
necessary for the orderly conduct of its business. Rules and procedures not
otherwise adopted or not covered by applicable law shall be governed by
Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised, as may be necessary for the proper conduct of
the business of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 124, passed 3-8-1982; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 6-1-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-
05, passed 4-18-2016)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.35 FUNCTIONS, POWERS, AND DUTIES.
   The Economic Development Authority shall serve in an advisory capacity to
the Council for both Economic Development related business and Housing and
Redevelopment Authority (HRA) business. The City Council shall serve as the
official HRA Board.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.36 QUALIFICATIONS OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Economic Development Authority shall consist of 7 members as
appointed by the City Council from among property owners of the City of Madison
Lake. Two members will also be members of the City Council.
   (B)   Terms of office for members shall be for 3 years.
   (C)   Members other than ex officio shall be appointed from among persons in
a position to represent the general public interest, and no person shall be
appointed with private or personal interest likely to conflict with the general
public interest. If any person appointed shall find that private or personal
interests are involved in any matter coming before the Commission, that person
shall recuse himself or herself from taking part in any action on this matter,
or be disqualified by the Chairperson of the Commission.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.37 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Any member of the Commission may be removed from office for just cause
and on written charges by a 4/5 vote of the City Council, but the member shall
be entitled to a public hearing before the vote is taken.
   (B)   Any member may be removed for non-attendance at Economic Development
Authority meetings without action by the City Council according to the rules
adopted by the Economic Development Authority in their bylaws. It shall be the
duty of the Chairperson of the Commission to notify the City Council promptly
of any vacancies occurring in membership, and the City Council shall fill the
vacancies within 60 days for the unexpired term of the original appointment.
   (C)   A resignation from the authority shall be in writing and addressed to
the Mayor.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.38 OFFICERS, RULES, EMPLOYEES, SALARIES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from
among those of its members who are not appointed ex officio, and may create the
other offices as it may determine. All members (not including ex officio
members) shall be entitled to vote. Terms of all elected offices shall be for 1
year, with eligibility for re-election.
   (B)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws for its governance and for the
transaction of its business, and shall keep a record of attendance at its
meetings and of resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations showing
the vote of each member of each question requiring a vote, or if absent or
abstaining from voting indicating the fact. The records of the Commission shall
be public record.
   (C)   Subject to approval of the City Council and within limits set by
appropriations or other funds made available, the Commission may employ the
staff, technicians, and experts as may be deemed proper, and may incur the
other expenses as may be necessary and proper for the conduct of its affairs.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.39 APPROPRIATIONS, FEES, AND OTHER INCOME.
   (A)   The City Council shall make available to the Commission the
appropriations as it may see fit for fees, and expenses necessary in the
conduct of its work.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the authority with City Council approval to
expend sums so appropriated and other sums made available for its use from
grants, gifts, and other sources for the purposes and activities authorized by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 31.40 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Half or greater active members of the Board as appointed by the
Council shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting the business
and exercising the powers of the EDA and for all other purposes, but a smaller
number may adjourn from time to time until a quorum is obtained. When a quorum
is in attendance, action may be taken by the Commissioners upon a vote of a
majority of the Commissioners present. In the absence of a quorum, no official
action may be taken by, on behalf of, or in the name of the Board or the
Authority.
   (B)   The Economic Development Authority may set such rules and procedures
as are necessary for the orderly conduct of its business. Rules and procedures
not otherwise adopted or not covered by applicable law shall be governed by
Roberts Rules of Order, Revised, as may be necessary for the proper conduct of
the business of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-18-2016)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Department is hereby established. The head of this Department shall
be known as the Chief of Police. The budget and any additional members or
employees of the Police Department shall be determined by the Council by
resolution. The Chief of Police and all members of the Police Department shall
have the duties, powers, and authority of police officers generally and shall
perform the duties as are required of them by the Mayor or by law. The Chief of
Police shall have custody and control of all property of the Police Department.
The Chief of Police shall make and file reports as may be required by the Mayor
or Council.
(1970 Code, § 120:25)
§ 31.46 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall promulgate a manual of rules and regulations
pertaining to the operation of the Police Department. A copy of the rules and
regulations shall be filed with the Mayor, Chief of Police, and City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1970 Code, § 120:30)
POLICE RESERVE
§ 31.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A voluntary group of Police Reserves is hereby established. The Police
Reserves shall be under the supervision and control of the Chief of Police. The
Police Chief shall designate officers of the Police Reserve. The Police Chief
shall be in charge of organizing the Police Reserve, selecting its personnel,
and it shall be his or her duty to discharge any member of the Police Reserve
for cause. Members of the Police Reserve shall be covered by the provisions of
the City of Madison Lake worker’s compensation insurance, and liability
insurance policies, while on duty. Personnel procedures, policies, and wage
schedules applicable to regular employees shall not apply to members of the
Police Reserve.
(1970 Code, § 120:35)
§ 31.61 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall promulgate a manual of rules and regulations
pertaining to the operation of the Police Reserves. A copy of the rules and
regulations shall be filed with the Mayor, Chief of Police, and the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(1970 Code, § 120:40)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent a disaster from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs and public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations; drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training; and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited; and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
33.01    Fees, charges, licenses, and permits
   
33.02   Salaries and compensation
§ 33.01 FEES, CHARGES, LICENSES, AND PERMITS.
   Fees, charges, licenses and permits are listed in Appendix A attached to
Ord. 2020-07, which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein. Copies are available through city offices. Changes by ordinance may be
made from time to time or as reflected in the adopted final budget.
(Ord. 234, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 237, passed 12-18-2006; Am. Ord. 2016-
01, passed 1-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-7-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-07,
passed 11-16-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed 11-15-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-01,
passed 2-21-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-07, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 33.02 SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   Salary and compensation rates are listed in Appendix B attached to Ord. 237,
which is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are
available through city offices.
(Ord. 237, passed 12-18-2006)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Employment background checks
   
34.02   License background checks
   
34.03   Emergency protection fire service charges established
§ 34.01 EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow the Madison Lake Police Department access to
Minnesota's Computerized Criminal History information for specified non-
criminal purposes of employment background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations.
      (1)   The Madison Lake Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for all positions within the city, unless the
city's hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is not
needed.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Madison Lake Police Department is
authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions ("BCA") Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Madison Lake Police Department under the care and custody of
the Chief of Police or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the Madison Lake Police
Department to the hiring authority, including the City Council, or the City
Administrator.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Madison Lake Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in M.S. §364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment based on the applicant's prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant's request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. §364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 34.02 LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's Computerized
Criminal History information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigations.
      (1)   The Madison Lake Police Department is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following licenses within the city:
liquor licenses, peddler licenses, business licenses, gambling licenses, rental
licenses, and adult entertainment licenses.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license applicants, the Madison Lake Police Department is
authorized to access data maintained in the BCA Computerized Criminal History
information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and
acquired shall be maintained at the Madison Lake Police Department under the
care and custody of the Chief of Police or his or her designee. A summary of
the results of the Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the
Madison Lake Police Department to the licensing authority, including the City
Council, or the City Administrator.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Madison Lake Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions
set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city
will not reject an applicant for a license based on the applicant's prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and the
conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 34.03 EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICE CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the city to charge for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§
366.011, 366.012, and 415.01.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a township or
other city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a township or
other city for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who received fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in townships or cities to which the city
provides fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates. All fire service charges shall be adopted annually, as listed
in Appendix A of Ord. 2011-05, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   False alarms will not be billed as a fire call.
   (F)   Mutual aid agreement. When the city Fire Department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
   (G)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the city Fire Department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 6-6-2011)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Irrigation and Water Sprinkling Systems
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Permits required
   
50.03   Permits for the installation and operation of back flow prevention to
be issued to licensed contractors only
   
50.04   Plan and specifications required
   
50.05   Permit fees
   
50.06   Issuance of permit
   
50.07   Display of permit
   
50.08   Term of permit
   
50.09   Violations
   
50.10   Effective date
   
50.11   Guide for residential lawn irrigation systems
IRRIGATION AND WATER SPRINKLING SYSTEMS
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IRRIGATION AND WATER SPRINKLING SYSTEMS. Any automatic or manually operated
irrigation or water system which provides for the irrigation or watering of
lawns, landscaping, gardens, or yards on any commercial, residential, or
industrial property within the city. An irrigation and water sprinkling system
shall include any automatically timer or manually started surface or
underground system connected to any city water utility or private water supply.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.02 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin work on the installation, alteration, or repair of any
back flow prevention device on any sprinkling system within the city until
proper application has been made and approved by the Plumbing Inspector and a
permit issued therefore. A permit shall not be required for sprinkling systems
which have river water as the sole source of supply.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 PERMITS FOR THE INSTALLATION AND OPERATION OF BACK FLOW PREVENTION TO
BE ISSUED TO LICENSED CONTRACTORS ONLY.
   Permits for the installation and operation of back flow prevention device
shall be issued only to an individual with a valid master plumbing contractor
license as provided by this subchapter, provided, however, anyone not so
licensed may be issued a permit to do plumbing work which complies with the
provisions of the minimum standard prescribed by the State Board of Health on
premises or that part of premises owned and actually occupied by the owner’s
residence. Resident owners may designate any individual to install sprinkling
hoses and pipes.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.04 PLAN AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   At the time application is made to install, alter, or repair any irrigation
or sprinkling system, plans and specifications together with the additional
information that the Plumbing Inspector may require shall be submitted to the
Plumbing Inspector. Plans and specifications for the proposed work must be
filed with the Plumbing Inspector before the permit is granted, and during the
progress of the work, if major changes are instituted which are not shown on
the initial plan, specifications, or permit application. No permit shall be
issued until the plans and specifications are found to conform with the
Minnesota Plumbing Code, §§ 4715.2000 through 4715.2160, as they may be amended
from time to time, which require back flow prevention devices for all
sprinkling systems installed on any public or private water supply system
within the City of Madison Lake.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.05 PERMIT FEES.
   The Plumbing Inspector shall, before issuing any permit for the
installation, alteration, or repair of any sprinkling system, require payment
by the applicant for the permit of a fee in the amount set forth in the
Resolution Establishing Building Permit Fees to be Collected for the City of
Madison Lake.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.06 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Upon approval of the application and receipt of the permit fee, the Plumbing
Inspector shall issue a permit stating the name of the owner, agent, or
occupant of the premises where the work is to be done, the address and/or legal
description of the premises, the description of the work to be done, and the
name of the permit holder.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.07 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to keep the permit on the premises
where the work is being done until the time as the work is completed, tested,
and accepted by the Plumbing Inspector, and to display the permit in a
conspicuous place on the premises.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.08 TERM OF PERMIT.
   All work to be done under a permit shall be completed within 180 days from
the date of issuance of the permit, or within the longer period of time as the
Plumbing Inspector may specify on the permit. Upon the expiration of the period
if the contractor has not already requested final inspection, the Plumbing
Inspector shall inspect the work. If he or she finds that the work is not
completed, he or she shall notify the contractor to complete the work within 15
days or he or she may extend the period if the cause of delay is beyond the
control of the contractor. Thereafter no additional work shall be done on the
irrigation/water sprinkling system unless and until a new permit has been
applied for and issued. In the event any changes have been made to this
subchapter prior to the issuance of the second permit, the permit shall be
deemed to be issued subject to compliance with this subchapter, as revised.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If, upon expiration of the term of the permit, the Plumbing Inspector
finds the work to be in violation of the provisions of this subchapter, he or
she shall order the contractor to correct the deficiencies. If the deficiencies
are not completed within 15 days, the contractor shall be required to obtain a
new permit as provided above. In addition thereto, the contractor shall be
subject to the penal provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Conviction of any violation of any provision of this subchapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
publication as provided by law.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004)
§ 50.11 GUIDE FOR RESIDENTIAL LAWN IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   This information is a compilation of some of the standard requirements
based on the State Building Code and city ordinances of projects of this type.
This information does not contain all of the specific codes and should only be
used as a guide. The permit holder is responsible to meet all code requirements
applicable to each project.
   (B)   This guide is to help the homeowner who wishes to do his or her own
installation of a lawn irrigation system.
   (C)   The following are required items for the correct installation of a
lawn irrigation system:
      (1)   Plumbing permits are required for lawn irrigation systems ($25
fee);
      (2)   Tie into the water line on the house side of the meter;
      (3)   95-5 solder must be used;
      (4)   Use full flow valve ball or gate valve after the tie in, with some
way of draining the line after the valve;
      (5)   Provide adequate back flow prevention with RPZ (reduced pressure
zone) pressure type or atmospheric type;
      (6)   Call for an inspection after you have connected to the domestic
water line and have run piping to outside with the necessary back flow
prevention installed; and
      (7)   Call Gopher State One, call (800) 252-1166, 48 hours before digging
begins.
   (D)   Lawn irrigation systems are an allowable use within boulevard and
easement areas. Any improvement that is placed within these areas is done so at
the risk of the property owner. The city is not responsible for restoration
damage caused by street maintenance, drainage, and utility construction and
snowplowing. Improvements, which interfere with the performance of city
operations or public utilities, may be ordered for removal.
   (E)   Plumbing contractors doing the installation of the RPZ must be state
licensed.
   (F)   Please call (507) 243-3507 to schedule inspections. All inspections
require a 24-hour notice. Inspection hours are from 9:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
weekdays.
(Ord.  231 , passed 6-21-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   City compost site
   
51.02   Refuse removal and recycling for rental properties
Refuse Collection and Disposal
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   General regulations
   
51.17   Disposal required; seasonal residents excepted
   
51.18   Containers
   
51.19   Contract for refuse collection and recycling
   
51.20   Rates and charges
   
51.21   Refuse collection schedule
   
51.22   Collection vehicles
   
51.23   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CITY COMPOST SITE.
   (A)   Purpose. The goals of the City of Madison Lake are to provide yard
waste composting for the residents of Madison Lake.
   (B)   Access to facility. The goals of the City of Madison Lake shall
maintain a compost site for organic material. This compost site shall be
limited to residents of the City of Madison Lake for the sole purpose of
maintaining their property.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   The compost site shall only accept the following materials:
         (a)   Yard and garden waste:
            1.   Leaves;
            2.   Grass;
            3.   Garden plant material;
            4.   Weeds; and
            5.   Sod stripping.
         (b)   Brush:
            1.   Limbs;
            2.   Branches;
            3.   Logs; and
            4.   Vines.
      (2)   All accepted material shall be segregated by type and shall be
removed from any and all containers, packages, or bags.
      (3)   Materials that shall not be accepted at the compost facility,
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Flower pots;
         (b)   Lawn edging;
         (c)   Rocks;
         (d)   Sand, soil, dirt, or dirt covered stump;
         (e)   Animal waste;
         (f)   Household garbage or waste;
         (g)   Furniture or appliances;
         (h)   Building or construction materials;
         (i)   Hazardous material, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Batteries of any kind;
            2.   Motor oil, new or used;
            3.   Fertilizer or lawn chemicals; and
            4.   Tires.
   (D)   Violations. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
Violation shall also require restitution to the city for its costs in handling
and disposing of unauthorized material.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect on 11-1-1999.
(Ord. 204, passed 9-20-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 REFUSE REMOVAL AND RECYCLING FOR RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Duty to provide removal of refuse. All landlords within the city shall
provide each rental unit refuse and garbage removal service, either by the city
or by a hired contractor, and whereby refuse and garbage shall be removed from
the premises at least once every 7 days. A rental license issued under this
code shall, at the time of application for the license, certify to the City
Clerk-Treasurer then name and identity of the party providing the refuse
removal service, and shall thereafter, notify the City Clerk-Treasurer within
10 days, of any change in the identity of the party providing the refuse
removal service.
   (B)   Duty to provide recycling service. All landlords within the city shall
provide each rental unit recycling service either by the city or by a hired
contractor. The types of materials for recycling are paper, plastic, metal,
glass, and corrugated cardboard. All other material must be approved by the
Madison Lake City Council. Owners of all single-family and duplex rental units
shall inform their tenants of the curbside program provided by the city.
   (C)   Recycling containers. Owners of all single-family and duplex rental
units shall provide a rigid nonabsorbent curbside recycling bin to each unit.
The containers must be emptied at least once per month.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with the requirements of this
section may result in suspension or revocation of the dwelling unit rental
license.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall become effective upon its passage
and publication in summary form.
(Ord. 183, passed 1-18-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RECYCLABLES. Include paper, plastic, tin cans, aluminum, motor oil, glass,
fabrics, corrugated cardboard, and other metal goods, each separated or
otherwise prepared so as to be acceptable to the recycling center where they
are to be deposited.
   RECYCLING CENTER. Premises used for the receipt, storage, or processing of
recyclables and approved as such by the Council when the premises are in the
city or by the governing body of the local government unit having jurisdiction
when the premises are outside the city.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes,
sweepings, and the like. Excluded from this definition are stone, sod, earth,
concrete, contractors building materials, large automobile parts, large
appliances, inflammable liquids, tree trunk sections over 3 inches in diameter,
articles so heavy or bulky that they cannot be handled by 1 person.
(Ord. 175, passed - -)
§ 51.16 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse in streets, and the like. No person shall place any refuse in
any street, alley, or public place or upon any private property except in
proper containers for collection. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in
any stream or other body of water.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in the manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any public or private premises within the city.
   (D)   Burying of refuse; composting. No person shall bury any refuse in the
city except in an approved sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass clippings, and
easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composted on the premises
where the refuse has been accumulated. Garbage may be composted only in a
rodent-proof structure and in an otherwise sanitary manner and after the
Council gives its approval to the composting after it finds that the composting
will be done in accordance with these standards.
(Ord. 175, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17 DISPOSAL REQUIRED; SEASONAL RESIDENTS EXCEPTED.
   (A)   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon, or inside, property owned or occupied by him or her. Garbage
shall be collected on site, at least once every week, unless the property is
classified as a seasonal property as defined in this section. Every
householder, occupant, and owner of any residence shall use the garbage,
refuse, and recycling service provided by the contractors for the city unless
specifically exempted herein as a seasonal property.
   (B)   Only seasonal properties may elect not to utilize the city’s garbage
collection service. To be classified as a seasonal property for the purposes of
this section the property must meet all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The property must be an owner’s second place of residence;
      (2)   The property must have city water and city sewer use discontinued
for at least 4 consecutive months of each annual year;
      (3)   The property must be maintained free and clear of any and all
garbage;
      (4)   The property owner is not disposing of garbage or refuse by
utilizing a neighboring property’s garbage collection service or any business,
commercial, or public collection service or receptacle in the city;
      (5)   The property has not been cited for nuisance in the past 12 months;
and
      (6)   The property owner has applied and received notice of acceptance of
seasonal property status.
   (C)   The City Council herein empowers the City Administrator with the
authority to establish whether a property is a seasonal property and
additionally the authorization to revoke seasonal property status to a property
once classified as such. Nothing herein shall, however, prevent a property
owner from petitioning the City Council for a determination as to whether or
not a property is a seasonal property, or continues to be a seasonal property,
under this section.
(Ord. 175, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-7-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirement. Every householder, occupant, or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment, or commercial
establishment shall provide on the premises 1 or more containers to receive and
contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in the containers. Leaves, trimmings
from shrubs, grass clippings, shavings, excelsior, and other rubbish of similar
volume and weight may be stored in closed containers not meeting the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Container requirements.
      (1)   Each container shall be water-tight, shall be impervious to insects
and rodents, shall be fireproof, and shall not exceed 64 gallons in capacity.
      (2)   Commercial or business establishments having commercial refuse pick
up and volume shall provide bulk or box-type refuse storage containers which
are screened on 3 sides so as not to be visible from the street. Bulk or box-
type containers for temporary use of 30 days or a lesser period of time need
not be screened on 3 sides. Containers shall be maintained in good and sanitary
condition with lids closed completely and in accordance with current business
and residential standards. Any container not conforming to the requirements of
this subchapter or having ragged or sharp edges or any other defect likely to
hamper or injure the person collecting the contents shall be promptly replaced
after notice by the city.
(Am. Ord. 184, passed 6-6-1994)
   (C)   Placement. Where an alley open to traffic is available, each container
for premises abutting the alley shall be placed at the rear of the property
next to the alley. Where no alley exists, the container shall be placed at the
front property line for collection but it shall not be so placed before 5:00
p.m. the night before collection and shall be removed by 7:00 p.m. the day of
collection.
   (D)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained of liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a container. Highly
inflammable or explosive material shall not be placed in containers.
(Ord. 175, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 CONTRACT FOR REFUSE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING.
   (A)   Council to let contract. Subject to the provisions of this subchapter,
the Council shall grant by contract let to the lowest bidder in accordance with
law the authority to collect and dispose of all refuse originating within the
city. The City Council shall order the preparations of specifications for
advertising for bids for the contract and shall see that when let, the contract
is executed in accordance with its terms and this subchapter.
   (B)   Terms. The contract shall be made for a term of 3 years, subject to
extension by mutual consent for an additional 3-year period and to termination
during the period of the contract as provided in the contract.
   (C)   Liability insurance. It shall be a condition of the contract that the
applicant file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of insurance
coverages for public liability and worker’s compensation insurance. Limits of
coverage shall be established by the City Council in the contract.
   (D)   Contract collector. No person shall collect refuse or recycling
materials within the city except a person holding a contract with the city to
do so. No person shall permit refuse or recyclable materials to be picked up
from his or her premises except by the contractor.
(Ord. 175, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.20 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally. Chapter 33, Appendix A contains current charges, fees,
rates, licenses, permits, and the like.
   (B)   Schedule. The owner or occupant of any premises served by a city
refuse collection contractor shall pay to the city a service charge assessed in
accordance with the schedule listed in Chapter 33, Appendix A.
   (C)   Billing. The service charge shall be made to the owner or occupant of
each building or housing unit served. If the building is served by city water
or sewer, the refuse collection, land fill charges, recycling charges, and tax
shall be billed as a separate entry on the water and sewer bill. If the
premises are not so served, the refuse collection, landfill fees, and recycling
charges shall be separately billed by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Payment. Service charges shall be payable at the same time as bills
for water service and subject to the same conditions of payment. A penalty of
10% of the current charge shall be added if any charge remains unpaid after the
stated late payment date. If any charge remains unpaid after 90 days, the
Council shall levy an assessment equal to the unpaid charge as of that date
plus interest at the rate of 8% from that date. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
certify the assessment to the County Auditor for collection in the same manner
as assessments for local improvements.
   (E)   Fund. All service charges shall be deposited in the General Fund.
(Ord. 175, passed - -)
§ 51.21 REFUSE COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Each contractor shall collect refuse from the premises for which a
collection contract exists in accordance with the terms of the contract.
(Ord. 175, passed - -)
§ 51.22 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Every refuse collection vehicle and recycling vehicle shall be lettered on
the outside so as to identify the contractor. Every vehicle used for hauling
garbage shall be covered, leak-proof, durable, and of easily cleaned
construction. Every vehicle used for hauling refuse shall be sufficiently
airtight, and so used as to prevent unreasonable quantities of dust, paper, or
other collected materials to escape. Every vehicle shall be kept clean to
prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect-breeding, and shall be maintained in
good repair. Smaller satellite vehicles shall transport loads to larger
vehicles where street weight restrictions apply prohibiting the heavier
traffic. The contract shall require an outline of the collection route on a
city map.
(Ord. 175, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This section shall become effective upon its passage and publication in
summary form.
(Ord. 175, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions on Water and Sewer Systems
   
52.01   Water and Sewer Department established
   
52.02   Use of water or sewer systems restricted
   
52.03   Applications for service
   
52.04   Charges for service connections
   
52.05   Accounting, billing and collecting
   
52.06   Liability insurance
   
52.07   Abandoned service
Water System
   
52.20   General water regulations
   
52.21   Outside water use
   
52.22   Maintenance
   
52.23   Complaints; meter testing
   
52.24   Meter, property of the city
   
52.25   Meter reading and inspection
   
52.26   Plumbing regulations
   
52.27   Private water supply
Sanitary Sewer System
   
52.40   Building sewer and connections
   
52.41   Prohibited discharges
   
52.42   Control of admissible wastes
   
52.43   Separate sewers
   
52.44   Sewer connection required
Public and Private Sewers and Drains
   
52.60   Definitions
   
52.61   Rules and regulations
   
52.62   Installation of sanitary facilities
   
52.63   Sanitary sewer service line construction
   
52.64   Unlawful acts
   
52.65   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
52.66   Accidental discharges
   
52.67   Wastewater discharge permits
   
52.68   Legal action
   
52.69   Annual publication
   
52.70   Costs of damage
   
52.71   Falsifying information
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS ON WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 52.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Water and Sewer Department. The department
shall be responsible for the management, maintenance, care and operation of the
water works and sanitary sewerage system of the city.
(Ord. 238, passed  5-1-2006)
§ 52.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEMS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 238, passed  5-1-2006)
§ 52.03 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for a water or sewer service installation and
for water service shall be made to the City Clerk on forms approved by the City
Engineer and furnished by the city. By his or her signature, the applicant
shall agree to conform to this chapter and to the rules and regulations that
may be established by the city as conditions for the use of water.
   (B)   Fees or deposit. Application for a service installation shall be made
by the owner of the property to be served or by his or her agent. The applicant
shall at the time of making application pay to the city the amount of the fees
or deposit required for the installation of the service connection as provided
in this chapter. When a water service connection has been installed,
application for water service may be made either by the owner or his agent or
by the tenant or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 238, passed  5-1-2006)
§ 52.04 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water and
sanitary sewer systems without a permit received from the City Clerk. The fee
for each such permit shall be as stated in §
33.01 for a water main connection permit and for a sewer connection permit.
These fees shall be reserved for the purchase of major pieces of equipment,
replacement, and rehabilitation of existing facilities, and acquisition of
items classified by the City council as capital budget items.
   (B)   Connection fees.
      (1)   Connection fees for installation of service line from main to
property. When a connection requires installation of a service line from the
main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay for the cost of
making the necessary connections, taps, and installation of pipe and
appurtenances to provide service to the property and the necessary street
repairs.
      (2)   Connection fees for out of city consumers. The connection fees for
out of city consumers of water shall be triple the fee that is charged for
consumers connecting within the corporate city limits.
   (C)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary sewer main unless the City Clerk certifies to the truth of 1 of the
following or the payment required under division (D) is made:
      (1)   That the lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost
of construction of the main with which the connection is made or that
proceedings for levying such assessment has been or will be commenced in due
course; or
      (2)   That the cost of constructing of the main has been paid by the
developer or builder platting the lot or tract; or
      (3)   That, if neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the
portion of the cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against
the lot or parcel has been paid to the city.
   (D)   Additional connection fee. If no such certificate can be issued, the
applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the portion of the
cost of construction of the main upon the same basis as any assessment
previously levied against other property for the main. The determination shall
be made by the City Council. If no such assessment has been levied, the
assessable cost shall be determined upon the basis of the uniform charge, which
may have been or will be charged for similar connection with the main. The
amount shall be determined on the basis of the total assessable cost of the
main as set forth in RELATING TO LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AND
ESTABLISHING A GENERAL POLICY THEREFOR.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 52.05 ACCOUNTING, BILLING, AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the
periodic costs for those utility services.
      UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city.
      WATERWORK SYSTEM. Water and sewer transmission pipes, lines, fixtures,
meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances owned or operated by the
city utility system or agency thereof, for the purpose of providing water and
sewer services for public or private use.
   (B)   (1)   Accounts. All utility accounts shall be carried in the name of
the property owner. The property owner shall be liable for water and sewer
services supplied to his or her property, whether he or she is occupying the
property or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property.
      (2)   Required information. The owner, occupant, or person in charge of
any premises shall supply the city with such information as it may reasonably
require relating to use of water, use of sewer, or rates. Willful failure to
provide such information, willful falsification of such information, or willful
failure to comply with any requirement or order issued pursuant to this section
constitutes a violation of this section.
   (C)   Billing. Water and sewer service shall be billed on one bill as
applicable to each account. Water and sewer charges shall be due on or before
the date set forth on the utility billing statement, provided that in the event
such due date is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, water and sewer charges
shall not be due until the following business day. All bills shall be mailed to
customers and specify the water consumed and sewer charges in accordance with
the current fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
   (D)   Utility rate schedule.
      (1)   The water and sewer rate schedule shall be adopted annually by
ordinance of the City Council.
      (2)   Water and sewer rates to consumers located outside the corporate
limits of the city, shall be at a higher rate than consumers located inside the
corporate limits of the city.
      (3)   Bills shall be mailed to the customers monthly and shall specify
the water consumed and the sewer, water, and refuse service charges in
accordance with the rates referred to in §
33.01.
   (E)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Penalties.
         (a)   Water and sewer charges shall be delinquent if not paid on or
before the due date set forth on the bill, provided that in the event such due
date is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, charges shall not be delinquent
until after the following business day. A 10% penalty shall be applied to the
past due principal portion of the delinquent account.
         (b)   Where satisfactory arrangements for payment of a delinquent
account have not been made, the city may, after the procedural requirements of
this chapter have been complied with, discontinue service to a delinquent
customer by shutting off the water to the property.
         (c)   When water service to a property has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored except upon the payment of all delinquent charges
including a disconnect and reconnect fee as set in with the current fee
schedule set by ordinance of the City Council or once a certification to the
tax roll is made.
      (2)   Non-sufficient funds.
         (a)   In the event a non-sufficient fund (NSF) check is received, a
letter will be mailed to the property owner notifying them of the NSF check.
The property owner has 5 days from the date of the letter to submit full
payment by means of cash, money order or certified check. If full payment is
not received in 5 days, water service shall be discontinued subject to the
disconnection procedure.
         (b)   The property owner shall be subject to an NSF fee as provided in
accordance with the current fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council.
         (c)   Once the account is current, the property owner shall be allowed
to submit future payments by means of a personal check. If the property owner
submits a second NSF check to the city within 6 months of the previous NSF
check, the city shall not accept a personal check for a period of 6 months.
After 6 months of payments by cash, money order, or certified check, and the
account remains in good standing, the city shall accept personal checks from
the property owner.
      (3)   Shut-off for nonpayment.
         (a)   Once an account is 60 or more days past due, the property owner
is subject to a water service shut-off for nonpayment.
         (b)   Water shall not be shut off until a notice and an opportunity
for a hearing before the City Council have been provided to the occupant and
owner of the property involved.
         (c)   A notice shall be mailed by first class mail and shall state
that if payment is not made within 10 days of the mailing of the shut-off
notice, the water service to the property shall be shut off for nonpayment.
         (d)   The notice shall also state that the occupant or property owner
has the right to a hearing before the water service is shut off. The property
owner or occupant may be represented in person and by counsel or any other
person of his or her choosing. The property owner or occupant may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint to the City Administrator. The City
Administrator shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer's
service and shall have the authority to adjust the customer's bill or enter
into a mutually agreeable payment plan.
         (e)   If a property owner or occupant requests a hearing, the water
shall not be shut off until the hearing process is complete.
         (f)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, service shall be shut off on the date specified in the notice.
      (4)   Certification for collection with taxes.
         (a)   Unpaid charges on water and sewer accounts shall not be
certified to the Blue Earth County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for
a hearing have been provided to the owner of the property involved. The notice
shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made
before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will
be certified to the Blue Earth County Auditor for collection as other taxes are
collected. The notice shall also state that the property owner may, before such
certification date, attend or schedule a hearing on the matter to object to
certification of unpaid water and sewer charges.
         (b)   The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date the notice of certification hearing
is mailed. After the date of the notice of certification hearing is mailed,
payments shall still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties.
         (c)   A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council.
Property owners with unpaid water and sewer charges shall have the opportunity
to object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected. If, after the
hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts claimed as delinquent are
actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal reason why the unpaid
charges should not be certified for collection with taxes in accordance with
this section, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the Blue Earth County
Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
         (d)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have
the following options after the hearing:
            1.   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll,
but without additional interest after the hearing, within 10 days of the
hearing date.
            2.   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date,
but before the county certification deadline, with interest at the rate set in
the adopted rate schedule, accrued beginning on the eleventh day following the
hearing date through the date of payment.
            3.   To pay the certified charges as billed to him or her by Blue
Earth County on his or her property tax statement with a collection term of 1
year.
      (5)   Cold weather rule.
         (a)   Cold weather rule, residential customers. The cold weather rule
as per M.S. § 216B.097, as it may be amended from time to time, is in effect
October 15 to April 15 of each year for residents using water as their main
heating source. The city shall not disconnect water service for a residential
customer if discontinuation affects the primary heat source for the residential
unit if the customer meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The household income of the customer is at or below 50% of the
state median household income.
            2.   A customer enters into and makes reasonably timely payments
under a payment agreement that considers the financial resources of the
household.
            3.   A customer receives referrals to energy assistance,
weatherization, conservation, or other programs likely to reduce the customer's
energy bill.
            4.   Disconnection occurs during October 15 and through April 15.
            5.   The customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided
by the city.
            6.   The household income of the customer is less than 185% of the
federal poverty level, as documented by the customer to the city.
            7.   The customer's account is current for the billing period
immediately prior to October 15; or the customer has entered a payment plan and
is reasonably current with payments under the payment plan.
            8.   The burden of showing that the disconnection would affect the
primary heat source for the residential unit is on the resident and can be met
by permitting the City Building Inspector to inspect the residence's heating
source to verify that it is the type of heating source contemplated by this
division.
         (b)   Required notices to resident under cold weather rule
disconnection of service. The cold weather rule as per M.S. § 216B.097, as it
may be amended from time to time, is in effect October 15 to April 15 of each
year for residents using water as their main heating source.
         (c)   Required notices to resident under cold weather rule
disconnection is necessary. If a residential customer must be involuntarily
disconnected between October 15 and April 15 for failure to comply with the
provision of this chapter, the disconnection must not occur on a Friday or on
the day before a holiday. Further, the disconnection must not occur until at
least 10 days after the notice required in this section has been mailed to the
customer or 10 days after the notice was personally delivered to the customer.
If the customer does not respond to a disconnection notice, the customer must
not be disconnected until the city staff investigates whether the residential
unit is actually occupied. If the unit is found to be occupied, the city must
immediately inform the occupant of the provisions of this section. If the unit
is unoccupied, the utility must give 10 days' written notice of the proposed
disconnection. If, prior to disconnection, a customer appeals a notice of
involuntary disconnection, as provided by the city's established appeal
procedure, the city must not disconnect until the appeal is resolved.
   (F)   Extending service outside corporate city limits.
      (1)   No portion of the cost of extending municipal utility services to
consumers outside of the corporate limits of the city shall be paid for by the
city. Persons located outside the city limits requesting utility service shall
make application to the city. The City Clerk shall submit such application to
the City Council for action. Only water and wastewater service may be provided
outside of the corporate limits of the city. Water service shall not be
supplied without wastewater service and wastewater service shall not be
supplied without water service.
      (2)   Requirements.
         (a)   All utility mains, pipes and accessories for such connections
shall be installed by the consumer at his or her own expense and shall conform
to the established standards for material and installation methods as provided
for and determined by the city from time to time. All waterwork systems
installed and laid out on city street or public property within the city shall
become the property of the city after the same has been installed. Said
installation shall be maintained by the consumer under the direction and in
accordance with the regulations of the city, and after obtaining a permit from
the city. Failure on the part of the consumer to repair or maintain any such
waterwork system shall be deemed grounds for shutting off the utility. The
utility shall not be turned on until the waterwork system is compliant with the
regulations of the city, and any fee provided in accordance with the current
fee schedule set by ordinance of the City Council has been paid to the city.
         (b)   The City Council may grant utility service to consumers outside
the city on such conditions as it may deem reasonable and in the public
interest. Such rights may be granted for a definite period of time, and if not
granted for a period of time, extension outside of the city limits may be
terminated when deemed for the best interest of the city, upon a 1-year written
notice from the city to the consumer.
         (c)   In the event annexation proceedings have been commenced by a
petition of the owners and filed with the Municipal Board or by resolution or
ordinance of the city and filed with the Municipal Board, the water and
wastewater charges paid from the date the annexation proceedings were
commenced, shall be changed to the rates of the corporate city limit users upon
the final annexation of the customer's property to the city.
      (3)   Water during construction. A tap may be granted and installed to
supply water for construction by special approval from the City Council. At the
time of the contractor or property owner obtaining the building permit, the
water billing account will be established. The billing will be in the name of
the person obtaining the building permit. The person obtaining the building
permit will be billed for the cost of service for water.
   (G)   Meters. All water usage shall be measured by meters and such meters
shall be installed by or under the direction of the city. Locations of meters
shall be subject to the approval of the city. All meters shall be obtained from
the city. The owner or consumer shall be held responsible for the care of the
meter and will pay for all damage caused to meters by himself or herself, his
or her agent, or the occupants of the premises.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-1-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-5, passed 12-7-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 52.06 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Before undertaking the construction work authorized by the permit, the
plumber shall secure and maintain a policy of insurance against damages to
property or injury or death to persons. The policy shall indemnify and save
harmless the city and its personnel against any claim, damages, or cause of
action arising out of the work and from any expenses of defending the same.
Proof of such insurance shall be filed with the city prior to construction work
and such policy shall provide that the city shall be notified immediately of
any termination or modification of such insurance. If the insurance coverage be
in adequate in amount, the master plumber shall himself indemnify and save
harmless the city and its personnel in like manner.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 52.07 ABANDONED SERVICE.
   In any case a utility service is abandoned; service will be shut off at the
main as required by the city. If the owner neglects or refuses to do so, the
city shall cause said work to be done and bill the cost for said work to the
consumer. Consumers wishing to temporarily discontinue the use of utilities
shall notify the city to that effect. The utilities shall then be turned off at
the curb shutoff box and the charges for utilities shall cease, provided all
utility rents, penalties and other charges under this chapter are paid.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 52.20 GENERAL WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Property owner’s responsibility.
      (1)   The service line from the curb stop including the curb stop and box
to the building being served is the property owner's responsibility.
      (2)   Any maintenance, such as breaks, valves, curb box repairs, etc., is
the responsibility of the property owner.
      (3)   If, for any reason, the City of Madison Lake would need to work on
a water service line, the expenses incurred while doing the necessary work will
be billed to the property owner.
   (B)    Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs or upon notice as provided
in M.S. § 125.35, Subdivision 4, for nonpayment of charges, or for violations
of rules and regulations affecting utility service.
   (C)   Supply from 1 service. No more than 1 house or building shall be
supplied from 1 service connection except by special service connection expect
by special permission of the Council. Whenever 2 or more parties are supplied
from 1 pipe connecting with a service main, each building or part of building
separately supplied shall have a separate stop box and separate meter.
   (D)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person except an authorized city
employee shall turn on any water supply at the stop box or tap any distributing
main or pipe of the water system or insert a stop cock or other appurtenance
therein without a city permit. A charge of 3 times the current water rate plus
any applicable penalty will be applied to any unauthorized water usage.
(Am. Ord. passed - -)
   (E)   Repair of leaks. The service line from the curb stop including the
curb stop and box to the building being served is the property owner's
responsibility. Any maintenance, such as breaks, valves, curb box repairs, etc,
is the responsibility of the property owner. If, for any reason, the City of
Madison Lake would need to work on a water service line, the expenses incurred
while doing the necessary work will be billed to the property owner. If he or
she fails to repair any leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after notice
by the city, the city may turn the water off. The water shall not then be
turned on again until the cost of repairs has been paid to the city. When the
waste of water in great or damage is likely to result form the leak, the city
shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not
commenced immediately.
   (F)   Use of fire hydrants. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the water and sewer
superintendent.
   (G)   Private water supply. No water pipe of the city water supply system
shall be connected with any pump, well, or tank that is connected with any
other source of water supply. When any such connection is found, the Water and
Sewer Department shall notify the owner to sever the connection and if this is
not done immediately, the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith.
Before any new connection to the city system is permitted, the department shall
ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new connection is made.
   (H)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling irrigation, car
washing, air condition, or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution or 2 days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and
any customer who does so shall be charged for each day of violation and the
charge shall be added to his or her next water bill. If the emergency requires
immediate compliance with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for
the delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and
any customer who has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water
to be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge
provided above. Continued violation shall cause for discontinuance of water
service.
   (I)   Fire emergency. It is hereby declared unlawful for any person in the
city or any person owning or occupying premises connected with the water system
to use any water from the system during a fire, except for the purpose of
fighting the fire or to permit any faucet, tap or outlet to remain open; and
upon the sounding of a fire alarm, it shall be the duty of every person to see
that all such outlets are tightly closed so that no water is used except for
necessary household purposes.
   (J)   Permitting use by others. No person shall permit city water to be used
for any purpose except upon his or her own premises except in an emergency ant
then only if written permission is first obtained from the City Clerk. Anyone
wishing to obtain water from a hydrant for construction purpose shall make
application to the City Clerk for such services.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.21 OUTSIDE WATER USE.
   (A)   Second meter. A second meter (garden meter) is required to monitor
water usage for outside use (watering sod, garden, washing vehicle). No sewer
usage will be charged on this water use.
   (B)   Meters. Except for the extinguishment of fires, no person other than
an authorized city employee shall use water from the city water supply system
or permit water to be drawn there from unless the water passes through a meter
supplied or approved by the city. No person not authorized by the Water and
Sewer Department shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change
or interfere with any such meter or its use.
   (C)   Metered water sprinkling service line. A water user may apply to have
a water line metered for exterior use only (hereinafter referred to as a water
sprinkling service line) in addition to water service metered within a
building. Such application shall be on a form prepared by the City Clerk-
Finance Deptartment from time to time and shall include:
      (1)   Plan for plumbing and approved permit from plumbing inspector.
      (2)   Name and address of applicant.
      (3)   Address of location for which permit is sought.
   (D)   Inspection of water sprinkling service line. Approval of the
application shall be granted where an inspection demonstrates:
      (1)   The water service line is split immediately upon entry to the
building.
      (2)   Two water meters have been installed behind the split, 1 on each
line from the split.
      (3)   The line used for water sprinkling must serve only lines which lead
outside a building.
      (4)   No connection between water lines outside the building and inside
the building may exist.
      (5)   Both water meters must be equipped with a remote reading device.
      (6)   No tapping, tying in, or connection may be made to the water
sprinkling service line which is inside a building or serving the inside of a
building.
      (7)   The building must have no footing drained, peripheral lines and/or
roof leaders that discharge directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewer.
      (8)   If the building has a sump pump, such sump pump must discharge
directly into a storm sewer and if no storm sewer is available it must be piped
directly out of the building in a manner to insure the discharge will not be
entering the sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   Cost of plumbing and meter installation. All costs of plumbing and
meter installation shall be borne by the owner.
   (F)   Unlawful to use water sprinkling line within building. It shall be
unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of water sprinkling service
line to place water within a building.
   (G)   Sewer charges exempt metered by water sprinkling service line. No
charge for sewer usage will be made based upon water flowing through a meter
monitoring a water sprinkling service line, except that if a water sprinkling
service line is found to have been used to place or supply water within a
building, 3 times the normal sewerage charge for all water supplied through the
water sprinkling service line for the 12 months preceding discovery of the
illegal use of the water sprinkling service line shall be made. Additionally,
use of the water sprinkling service line to place or supply water within a
building shall result in revocation of the permit to be exempt from sewerage
charges for water sprinkling service line for a period not less than, 5 years.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.22 MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall maintain and repair, at its expense, any meter that has
become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace it if
necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act or neglect of
the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense caused
thereby, shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer, and
water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the amount
charged is paid.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.23 COMPLAINTS; METER TESTING.
   When a consumer complains that the bill for any past service period is
excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on request. If the consumer
remains dissatisfied he or she may, on written request and the deposit of $10,
have the meter tested. If the test shows an error in the city's favor exceeding
5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded, an accurate meter
shall be installed, and the bill shall be adjusted accordingly. Such adjustment
shall not extend back more than 1 service period from the date of written
request.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.24 METER PROPERTY OF THE CITY.
   Water meters shall be the property of the city and may be removed or
replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.25 METER READING AND INSPECTION.
   Authorized meter readers shall have free access at reasonable hours of the
day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the city water
supply system in order to read meters and make inspections. Outside meter
reading devices shall be installed.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.26 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   All plumbing, service pipe, meters, fixtures, and appurtenances shall be
installed and comply with provisions of the Minnesota Plumbing Code and
Standards of the Minnesota Department of Health.
   (A)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The stop and waste valve shall be 12 inches above the floor.
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be between 6 and 12 inches above the
finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches
horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall unless a different
position is approved by the Waste and Sewer Department. A suitable bracket
shall be provided to support the meter and prevent noise from vibration.
      (3)   Each meter installation shall have a stop and waste valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 12 inches of pipe be
exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the stop
and waste valve. A stop and waste valve shall also be installed on the house
side of the meter.
      (4)   The water pipe connecting with the main shall not exceed 2 feet
under the basement wall to the water meter connection.
      (5)   The inside meter and outside reading device should be set to
identical starting readings to provide accurate tallies in the event of failure
of outside device.
      (6)   Meter setting devices for 5/8-inch, 3/4-inch, and 1-inch meters
shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the service pipe up to
and including the stop and waste valve on the building side.
   (B)   Location of stop boxes. Curb stop boxes shall be installed as near as
possible to the curb if on a street or within 1 foot of the alley line if the
main is located in the alley. They shall be installed at an approximate depth
of 7 feet below the established grade and shall be left in an accurate vertical
position when back-filling is completed. They shall also have an extension
riser connected directly to the curb stop on any new construction and
replacement construction.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.27 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   This section supersedes all other sections not in conformance with this
section.
   (A)   No person shall build, establish, expand or maintain a private water
supply system within the city.
   (B)   Where the municipal water system is available to any parcel of
property within the city, the owner of such parcel of property shall make
connection to the municipal water system within 90 days after written notice of
said availability has been served on the owner or occupant of the property.
   (C)   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected with
any pump, well, tank or piping that is connected with any other source of water
supply.
   (D)   Any private water supply system in effect prior to August 14, 2013 may
be maintained and continued in use after connection is made to the city water
supply system, provided there is no means of cross-connection between the
private water supply system and the city water supply system at any time.
   (E)   M.S. § 1031.301 requires a property owner to have his or her well
properly sealed by a licensed well contractor if the well is contaminated or
may spread contamination, if it has been improperly sealed in the past, if it
threatens the quality of groundwater, if it is a safety or health hazard, or if
it is not in use.
   (F)   Any violation of this section shall be considered a misdemeanor
punishable by the misdemeanor fines and penalties set forth in M.S. § 609.02,
Subdivision 3, or any laws amending or replacing such law.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-19-2013)
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.40 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Property owner’s responsibility. The service line from the sewer main
to the building being served is the property owner's responsibility. Any
maintenance, such as blockages, breaks, valves, bad connections, jetter
cleaning, televising, etc. is the responsibility of the property owner. If, for
any reason, the City of Madison Lake would need to work on a sewer service
line, the expenses incurred while doing the necessary work will be billed to
the property owner.
   (B)   Unauthorized connections. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make
any connection with or opening into, use alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance without first obtaining a permit form the City Clerk or otherwise
complying with the provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Permit and bond. A permit for construction of the extension between a
building drain and the sewer main stub, herein called the building sewer, and
for connecting it to the sewer main stub shall be issued only to a master
plumber who has furnished a bond conditioned so as to secure compliance by the
principal with the provisions of this chapter and to further secure performance
by him or her of all work undertaken within the city.
   (D)   Indemnification by owner. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer. He or she
shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly or indirectly caused
by its installation. To the extent he or she deems necessary, the Plumbing
Inspector shall establish rules and regulations for the proper implementation
of these requirements which, when approved by the Council by resolution, shall
govern the installation of building sewers and connections.
   (E)   Requirements for building a sewer. Building sewer construction shall
meet the requirements of the Minnesota State Plumbing Code and the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency and the Minnesota Department of Health.
   (F)   Inspection and approval. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Plumbing Inspector when the sewer and connection is ready for
inspection. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Plumbing
Inspector or his or her representative. No back fill shall be placed until the
work has been inspected and approved.
   (G)   Sewer service line. The service line from the sewer main to the
building being served, is the property owner's responsibility. Any maintenance,
such as blockages, breaks, valves, bad connections, jetter cleaning,
televising, etc. is the responsibility of the property owner. If for any reason
the city would have to work on a sewer service line the expenses incurred when
doing the necessary work will be billed to the property owner or against the
property.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 52.41 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, STORM WATER, SURFACE
WATER and SUMP PUMP WATER shall mean any and all waters, other than domestic
waters originating in the city water system or its wells, susceptible to use
for domestic purposes.
   (B)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   Discharging storm water, surface water or sump pump waters into the
sanitary sewer system in the city is prohibited. Any person, firm or
corporation having a roof drain system, surface drain system, footing tile,
footings or foundation drains, basement floor drain, cistern overflow pipes,
sump pump or other drains of storm, surface or ground waters which are now
connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect
and/or remove the same. Any disconnects or opening into the sanitary sewer
system shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner, as
approved by the Public Works Supervisor.
      (2)   No building shall be constructed nor shall any existing buildings
be altered in such a manner that the roof drainage or any other source of storm
water, sump pump water or surface water shall connect or infiltrate with the
sanitary sewer system inside or outside the building.
   (C)   Sump pumps.
      (1)   Dwellings, buildings and structures which require because of the
infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, including
water damage markings on basement walls, a sump pump system to discharge excess
water shall have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any
time discharge water into the sanitary sewer system. A permanent installation
shall be one which provides for year-round discharge capability to either the
outside of the dwelling, building or structure, or is connected to the city
storm water sewer. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valves
or quick connections for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to
the city storm sewer shall include a check valve.
      (2)   If a storm water sub-drain is available, all sump pumps must
immediately connect. If a storm water sub-drain is not available for sump pump
connection, all sump pump lines may discharge into a vegetated area that does
not cause nuisance conditions to the abutting property owner. If a storm water
sub-drain is not available and the discharge of sump pump waters into a
vegetated area causes a nuisance condition to the abutting property, sump pump
waters may discharge to the street abutting the residence.
   (D)   Inspections. Within 30 days from receiving a written notice from the
city, every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the city's
sanitary sewer system must allow a duly authorized employee or representative
of the city, to inspect the buildings to determine whether there is a
prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any property found to
violate this section shall make the necessary changes to comply with this
section and such changes shall be verified by duly authorized agents of the
city. The City Council may apply to the District Court for an appropriate
administrative search warrant if a property owner refuses to allow an
inspection of the owner's property.
      (1)   In lieu of having the city inspect the property, a person may
furnish an inspection report in a form acceptable to the Public Works
Supervisor from a licensed plumber approved by the Public Works Supervisor.
      (2)   Re-inspections. A property that is found to be not in compliance
with this section is subject to re-inspections to confirm that the property is
subsequently brought into compliance.
      (3)   Inspections with building permits.  If a city inspector is on a
property for the purpose of inspecting for compliance with a building permit,
the city inspector has the authority to also inspect the property for
compliance with this section.
   (E)   Corrections. The owner of a property found to be in violation of this
section must make the necessary corrections to comply with this section within
30 days of notification from the city. If the owner fails to make the required
corrections within the specified time, the city may make the necessary
corrections and charge the cost to the property owner. Costs that are not paid
may be certified for collection as a special assessment in the same manner as
delinquent utility bills.
   (F)   Penalties and service charges.
      (1)   Any person found violating any provision of this section shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation. The
offender shall permanently cease all violations. As for new construction,
remodeling and additions, a warning for violation of this section will be
stamped on the building permit and if found to be in violation of this section
they will be immediately subject to a monthly surcharge plus they will be
responsible for all water treatment costs and must immediately cease all
violations.
      (2)   A monthly surcharge is hereby imposed and added to every sewer
billing mailed to any person failing to comply after being served a notice to
comply. The surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in
compliance. The surcharge shall continue to be levied monthly, on properties
not complying with this section. The City Council may grant waivers from the
surcharges where strict enforcement may cause undue hardship unique to the
property or where the property owner was scheduled for disconnection but cannot
do so due to circumstances, such as availability of the plumber or inclement
weather. The surcharge amount for 2008 will be $100 per month. Commencing in
2009 and thereafter, the surcharge will be as set forth in the city's Schedule
of Fees.
      (3)   In the event the owner fails to correct the situation the city may
correct said connection and collect such costs, together with reasonable
attorney's fees and the collection fees, by suing the owner in a court of
competent jurisdiction, or in the alternative, by certifying said costs of
correction as any other special assessment upon the land from which said
correction of said violation was made.
   (G)   Disclosure.  Prior to the change in ownership of any building within
the city, the seller shall disclose to the buyer, in writing, whether or not
the property is in compliance with the provisions of this section. The seller
shall also provide a copy of said disclosure to the city within 5 days of the
date of the sale of the property.
   (H)   Validity. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are hereby repealed. This section shall be in full force and effect upon its
time of passage and publication.
(Am. Ord. 238, passed 4-21-2008)
§ 52.42 CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE WASTES.
   Any person desiring to deposit or discharge any industrial waste mixture
into the sewers of the city or any sewer connected therewith, shall make
written application to the approving authority.
   (A)   Control chambers. Any person discharging or desiring to discharge an
industrial waste mixture into the sewerage works of the city, or any sewer
connected therewith, shall provide and maintain in suitable, accessible
position on his or her premises, or such premises occupied by him or her, an
inspection chamber or manhole near the outlet of each sewer, drain, pipe,
channel or connection which communicated with any sewer or sewage work of the
city or any sewer connected therewith. Each such manhole or inspection chamber
shall be of such design and construction as to prevent infiltration by ground
and/or surface waters and to prevent the entrance of objectionable slugs of
solids (greater than 1/2 inch in size) into the sanitary wastewater system. The
inspection chamber shall be maintained by the person discharging wastes so that
any authorized representative or employee of the city may readily and safely
measure the rate of flow and obtain samples of the flow at all times. Plans for
the construction of the control manholes or inspection chambers including such
flow measuring devices as may be required, shall be approved by the approving
authority prior to the beginning of construction. Such structures and equipment
(including a valve on the effluent line) shall be installed by the person at
his or her expense.
   (B)   Measurement of flow.
      (1)   The meter records of the Water Department shall be the valid basis
for computing the wastewater flow, unless actual wastewater flow measurement by
a recording meter of an approved type is required by either the approving
authority or industry. The owner shall install and maintain such device in
proper condition to accurately measure such flow. Upon failure to do so, the
water consumption shall be the basis for determining the applicability of this
chapter and computing the industrial service charge. When water is obtained
from a privately owned source, a water meter and/or wastewater meter
satisfactory to the approving authority shall be installed and maintained at
the person's expense.
      (2)   When water is contained in a product or is evaporated or is
discharged in an uncontaminated condition to surface drainage, an application
may be needed for a deduction in the volume of waste discharged to the public
sewer provided supporting data satisfactory to the approving authority is
furnished. This data shall include a flow diagram, destination of water supply
and/or waste, supported by sub-metering data obtained on the process piping at
the expense of the private owner.
   (C)   Sampling of wastes. Sampling of the effluent of waste discharges may
be accomplished manually or by the use of mechanical equipment to obtain a 24-
hour composite sample which would be representative of the total effluent.
Samples shall be taken as such intervals as determined by the approving
authority as necessary to maintain a control over the discharge from the
establishment. The methods used in the examination of all wastewater to
determine suspended solids, BOD and concentrations of prohibited wastes shall
be as set for herein. All costs for sampling and testing of industrial,
discharges, as ordered by the approving authority, shall be paid by the person
making accordance with Standard Methods. Test results shall be reported within
a reasonable time.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.43 SEPARATE SEWERS.
   A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building
connected to the sewer system except that the Council may waive this
requirement where it finds that a separate sewer for a building is impractical.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
§ 52.44 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirement. When a property abuts upon any public street or
alley along which water and sewer mains have been constructed, the owner of any
dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall install suitable
toilet facilities therein and connect them with the sanitary sewer in
accordance with the provision of this chapter within 90 days after the date of
mailing of delivered official notice to do so. This notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant in writing by the City Clerk on the order of the City
Council.
   (B)   Connection by the city. Whenever any owner or occupant fails to comply
with such written notice, the Council shall by resolution direct that a toilet
be installed and connection made with the water and sewer system and that the
cost of the installation be paid in the first instance out of the general fund
and then as an assessment against the property benefitted.
   (C)   Assessment. After the installation and connection have been completed
pursuant to the Council resolution, the Clerk shall serve a written notice of
the assessment upon the owner or his or her representative directing him or her
to pay the assessment to the treasurer within 10 days after the service of the
notice. If the assessment is not paid within 10 days, the Clerk shall certify
the amount to the County Auditor for collection in the same manner as other
special assessments over a 3-year period.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-1-2006)
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS AND DRAINS
§ 52.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Madison Lake, Minnesota or its representative
thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20 degrees Centigrade, expressed in terms of weight and concentration
(milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
   BIOSOLIDS. Sewage sludge that has been treated to meet the regulatory
requirements for land application set out in the Code of Federal Regulations,
Title 40 (Part 503).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning
immediately outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (CBOD). BOD to which a chemical
inhibitor has been added to inhibit the nitrogenous demand and provide a direct
measurement of carbonaceous demand.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Madison Lake
as presently established or as amended by ordinances or other legal actions at
a future time. The term CITY, when used herein, may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representative.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL. Retail or wholesale type establishments, i.e., restaurants,
hotels, motels, stores, filling station, commercial laundry, etc., and
multiple-family units and apartments not meeting the “residential”
classification, that discharge wastewater into the public wastewater treatment
system, works and facility.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges domestic strength
waste.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE. Revenue to be used solely for retirement of outstanding debts
of the city's wastewater treatment works.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or total suspended solids
greater than normal domestic strength waste and not otherwise classified as an
incompatible waste.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   GOVERNMENTAL/INSTITUTIONAL-HOSPITAL. Nursing homes; schools; city, county,
state or federal industrial buildings; or facilities that discharge wastewater
into the public wastewater treatment system, works and facility.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any unit, agency, or instrument of federal, state or
local government which discharges domestic strength water.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a “compatible
pollutant”, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL. An “industry”, as defined elsewhere in this section, which
discharges wastewater into the public treatment, works, and facility.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A facility which discharges to city's wastewater treatment
system liquid waste resulting from the processes employed in industrial,
manufacturing, trade, or business establishments, or from the development of
any natural resource.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery, and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water, other than wastewater, that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater
treatment system processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES State
Disposal System Permit. The term includes prevention of wastewater sludge use
or disposal by the city in accordance with published regulations providing
guidelines under Section 405 of the Act or any regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of
disposal or use employed by the city.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307 (b) of the
Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Any permit
or requirements issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA)
pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended for the purpose
of regulating the discharge of wastewater, industrial wastes, or other wastes
under the authority of Section 402 of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, through which process the only
pollutant added to the water is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 260 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 280 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Those variable expenditures and costs which are
directly attributable to the operations and maintenance of a waste treatment
works. The term "O & M" includes REPLACEMENT.
   ORTHO PHOSPHORUS. Ortho phosphorus is termed the reactive phosphorus. It is
the portion of phosphorus that responds to colorimetric tests without
preliminary hydrolysis or oxidative digestion of a sample. (Standard Methods
19th Edition.)
   PERSON. The state or any agency or institution thereof, any municipality,
governmental subdivision, public or private corporation, individual,
partnership, or other entity, including, but not limited to, association,
commission or any interstate body, and including any officer or governing or
managing body of any municipality, governmental subdivision or public or
private corporation, or other entity.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or basicity of a waste. It is defined as the
negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration in moles per liter.
   PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating
pollutants, or altering the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a
less harmful state prior to introducing such pollutants in the city's
wastewater treatment system. The reduction, elimination, or alteration may be
obtained by physical chemical or biological processes, process changes or other
means, except as prohibited by this subchapter.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of the treatment
facility for which it was designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL. A principal family residence or habitation classed as a single-
family or two-family dwelling that discharges domestic sanitary wastewater
having characteristics of 260 mg/l BOD and 280 mg/l suspended solids, into the
public wastewater treatment system, works, and facility.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash
water, drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM. The system of charges by which revenue is
generated to offset the cost of operation and maintenance plus replacement,
administration, and debt service.
   SHALL. Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the city's wastewater
treatment system which:
      (1)   Has a drainage flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day;
or
      (2)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants at significant levels as defined
pursuant to Section 307 of the Act or Minnesota Statutes and Rules; or
      (3)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality
of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system; or
      (4)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards, under 40 CFR
403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; or
      (5)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant;
or
      (6)   Is designated as significant by the permittee on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). Industrial user violations meeting 1 or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken during a 6-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all the measurements for each pollutants parameter
taken during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC - 1.14 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the Control Authority determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority under §
52.67 (P) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Control
Authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG. Any waste discharge which, in connection for any given constituent or
in quantity of flow, exceeds 4 times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation.
   STATE. State of Minnesota.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms, conditions
and requirements thereof), issued by the MPCS pursuant to M.S. § 115.07, as may
be amended from time to time, for a treatment system as defined by M.S. §
115.01, Subdivision 8, as may be amended from time to time.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   STORM WATER SYSTEM. Consists of streets, curb and gutters, catch basins,
manholes, watercourses and all other structures, appurtenances and facilities
that store and/or convey storm water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the city wastewater treatment system,
or the Superintendent's duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. A treatment charge assessed by the city to industrial users based
on wastewater volume and CBOD and/or TSS exceeding base concentrations and
other parameters designated by the City of Mankato.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by a standard glass fiber filter.
   TOTAL PHOSPHORUS. Total phosphorus is chemically defined as the measurement
of condensed ortho phosphate and organically bound phosphates. It is
analytically defined as the measurement of reactive phosphates, hydrolysable
phosphates and organically bound phosphates. (Standard Methods 19th Edition.)
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will
cause adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a)
of the Act.
   TREATMENT AUTHORITY. The City of Mankato, Minnesota or its representative
thereof.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER.
   USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge or
placement of wastewater into the city's wastewater treatment system.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the treatment works for the
operation and maintenance of such works.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city's wastewater treatment system.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures,
equipment or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of the
transmission, storage or treatment of industrial and domestic wastewater
including intercepting sewer, outfall sewers, wastewater collection system,
pumping, and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions,
improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof, and any works,
including land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is
used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
   WEF. The Water Environment Federation.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009)
§ 52.61 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any customer who discharges sewage or industrial waste into the
sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, obtains part or all of the
water used therein from sources other than the city and the water so obtained
is not measured by a meter in a manner which is acceptable to the city, then in
such case, the city shall permit the discharge of sewage or industrial waste
into its sewerage system only when the customer shall, at his or her own
expense, install and maintain a water meter and/or a flow meter which shall be
satisfactory to the city. Such recorders shall be installed so as to either
measure all water received on the premises of the customer or all effluent
therefrom as established by ordinance, and the charges and rates shall be
applied as established therein.
   (B)   Any customer who shall discharge sewage or industrial waste into the
sewerage system which shall be deemed deleterious to said sewerage system or
sewage treatment process may be required to pre-treat such waste to an
acceptable standard as defined by ordinance.
   (C)   The city may require that any customer who shall discharge industrial
waste into the sewerage system of the city shall install flow meters, sewage
sampling equipment such as, but not limited to, monitoring devices, as it may
deem necessary for purposes for a periodic review of rate structures, or such
other purpose as may be advantageous to the city.
   (D)   Whenever any customer discharges industrial waste sewage into the
sewer system which does not meet the established requirements for industrial
waste, the city may terminate service to said customers. However, the City of
Mankato reserves the right to exclude any or all industrial wastes, regardless
of strength.
   (E)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to capacity for flow, CBOD5, total phosphorus and suspended
solids, as determined by the Superintendent.
   (F)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of
the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be
performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (H)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.62 INSTALLATION OF SANITARY FACILITIES.
   It is the duty of every owner or occupant of any property within the city,
having a dwelling house or business building situated thereon, which property
is within 500 feet of any municipal water and sewer mains, to install sanitary
facilities in such dwelling or business building and make connections thereof
with such water and sewer mains. Whenever the noncompliance of the owner or
occupant of such property is reported to the city, an investigation shall be
made and a written report presented to the Council, and if the city finds that
the lack of sanitary facilities is an unhealthful or unsanitary condition, the
city shall forthwith serve written notice upon said owner or occupant requiring
the installation upon premises described in said notice and connection thereof
with the sewer and water mains, all of which shall be done within 30 days after
the service of such written notice. Whenever any owner or occupant shall
default in compliance with such written notice, the Council may, by resolution,
direct that a sanitary facility be installed and connection be made with the
water and sewer mains. The actual cost of such installations shall be assessed
against the benefitting property.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.63 SANITARY SEWER SERVICE LINE CONSTRUCTION.
   All sanitary sewer service lines and appurtenances connected to municipal
utilities shall conform to the established requirements of the city's Standard
Utilities Specifications for Sanitary Sewer Installation and State Plumbing
Code.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.64 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person not expressly authorized by the city to
tap a sewerage collection main.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to directly or indirectly discharge,
place or cause to be discharged any of the following described substances into
the city's wastewater treatment system or any public sewer:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toulon, xylene, ethers, alcohol, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, sulfides and any wastes
with a closed cup flash point of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees
Celsius).
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides, or fleshing, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, gas tar, asphalt, residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment system.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
treatment system which violate any statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance
of any public agency or state or federal regulatory body.
      (8)   Any wastewater from a facility in existence prior to December 4,
1995, containing a CBOD in excess of 260 mg/l and TSS in excess of 280 mg/
l unless such discharge is allowed by a permit and written agreement between
the city and discharger. Any facility with an initial discharge date of
December 4, 1995, or later must meet the CBOD limit of 260 mg/l and the TSS
limit of 280 mg/l.
      (9)   Any wastewater containing total phosphorus in excess of 1 kg/day
unless such discharge is allowed by a permit and written agreement between the
city and discharger.
      (10)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (65.6 degrees Centigrade), or causing, individually or in
combination with other wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment
plant to have a temperature exceeding 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees
Centigrade) or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in
the wastewater facility resulting in interference.
      (11)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demand pollutants (CBOD, COD, TKN, TP, etc.), released in a discharge of such
volume or strength as to cause inhibition or disruption in the wastewater
treatment system.
      (12)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm or groundwater.
      (13)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees Fahrenheit and
150 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Centigrade and 65.6 degrees Centigrade); and
any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral or animal
origin of greater than 50 mg/l whether or not emulsified.
      (14)    Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that they would cause disruption with the wastewater treatment
system.
      (15)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such a half-life or
concentration that they are in noncompliance with standards issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use and which will or are
likely to cause damage or hazards to the city's wastewater treatment system or
personnel operating it.
      (16)   Wastewater containing the following substances in excess of the
limits shown herein:
 
Toxic Pollutant     Discharge Limitation
Cadmium (Cd)        1.03 mg/l
Chromium total (Cr) 5.23 mg/l
Copper (Cu)         2.86 mg/l
Cyanide (Cn)        1.09 mg/l
Lead (Pb)           1.05 mg/l
Mercury (Hg)        0.01 mg/l
 
 
Toxic Pollutant Discharge Limitation
Molybdenum (Mo) 0.10 mg/l
Nickel (Ni)     3.65 mg/l
Silver (Ag)     2.14 mg/l
Zinc (Zn)       8.10 mg/l
 
      (17)   Loadings in excess of those prescribed in §
52.64 (B)(16) may be accepted into the wastewater treatment facility pursuant
to a written agreement between the discharger and the city, which agreement
shall provide that:
         (a)   The discharger will pay all costs incurred by the city arising
out of the discharge including fines and penalties;
         (b)   Discharge shall in no event exceed functional capacity of the
city's treatment facility;
         (c)   Provision be made for constant monitoring of discharge as may be
necessary;
         (d)   There exists the capability of shutting the discharge off before
it enters the wastewater treatment system;
         (e)   The permit may be revoked or modified where necessary as the
needs of the wastewater treatment facility dictate in connection with the
demands placed on the facility, its capabilities and emergencies affecting its
operation in compliance with the applicable requirements for its operation by
the city;
         (f)   The discharger shall hold the city harmless for such discharge;
         (g)   Such other terms may be deemed appropriate to ensure the safe
and verifiable granting of permission to place such excess loadings in the
system. No permit shall be granted hereunder where such discharge would violate
applicable federal or state laws or regulations or adversely impact upon the
city's ability to comply with applicable terms of its NPDES permit or
applicable regulations governing its wastewater treatment facility.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.65 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instances where they are more
stringent than the limitations in the ordinance except as the MPCA has approved
modification of the specific limits in the national categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (B)   State requirements and limitations or discharges shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instance in which they are
more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this
subchapter.
   (C)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any way,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
pretreatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained herein, or in
the national categorical pretreatment standards, or contained in any state
requirements.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.66 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
substances regulated by this subchapter. Where necessary, facilities to prevent
accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the user's own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the city
for review and shall be approved by the city before construction of the
facility.
   (B)   Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter. Users shall notify the
Wastewater Treatment Plant immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge or substances or wastewater in violation of this subchapter in order
to enable counter-measures to be taken by the city to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment system and the receiving waters. Such notifications will
not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state or federal law. A notice shall be
permanently posted in a prominent place advising employees whom to call in the
event of a slug or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all the
employees who may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (C)   Approval of plans and procedures made under this section shall not
constitute any representation that such plans and procedures will correct a
problem or operate in any given manner.
   (D)   The city shall be immediately notified of an accidental discharge by
telephoning the Wastewater Treatment Plant during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:
30 p.m. and the Water Treatment Plant located in Sibley Park during the hours
of 4:30 p.m. to 8:00 a.m., Monday through Friday. On weekends and holidays, the
Wastewater Treatment Plant shall be notified between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
3:00 p.m. and the Water Treatment Plant shall be notified between the hours of
3:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Written notification must follow within 1 working day
and be personally delivered to the Utility Supervisor at the Wastewater
Treatment Plant.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.67 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Mandatory permits. All industrial users proposing to connect or to
commence a new discharge to the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the
wastewater treatment system if the discharge would result in the industry being
classified as a significant industrial user. All existing significant
industrial users or industrial users subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards under Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act connected to or
discharging into the wastewater treatment system shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit within 180 days after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form
prescribed by the city. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, and proposed
new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting or discharging to
the wastewater treatment system. In support of the application, the user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location of the user's facility and its agent
for service legal actions in Minnesota;
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with procedures approved by the city;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged, including
sludges, floats, skimmings, etc.;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or national categorical
pretreatment standards. The applicant shall provide a compliance schedule for
meeting pretreatment standards and requirements, if applicable;
      (9)   Each product produced by type, amount, and rate of production;
      (10)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (11)   Number of full and part-time employees, and hours of plant
operations; and
      (12)   Any other information required by the city to be necessary to
evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   The city will evaluate the date furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the city may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
   (D)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater treatment system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (3)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (4)   Requirements for installation, operation, and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (6)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, but in no case less than 3
years, and affording the city access thereto;
      (8)   Requirements for notification to an acceptance by the city of any
new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the
volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
mandated by law and reporting of permit violations;
      (10)   Requirements for disposal of sludges, scums, skimmings, etc.; and
      (11)   Such other conditions as deemed appropriate to ensure compliance
with this chapter.
      (12)   All information required in §
52.67 (B) shall be kept current.
   (E)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed 5 years. The user shall apply for permit re-issuance a minimum of
90 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in this chapter
are modified or other just cause exists. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance except where
immediate compliance is required for the city to operate in compliance with its
NPDES and state disposal system permit.
   (F)   Permit modifications. Within 9 months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with such
standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
been required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit, the user shall apply for
a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, a user with
an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the city, within 180
days after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard, the information required. If the information previously submitted in
an application is still current and adequate, only a letter from the user
certifying such is required.
   (G)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred to a new owner or new user, without 10 days' prior written notice
to the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the existing permit.
   (H)   Monitoring reports. 
      (1)   A condition of the industrial discharge permit shall include the
completion and submittal of accurate monitoring reports to the city on a form
as required by the city. The nature and frequency of reporting shall be based
upon the information provided in the permit application form. Reports shall be
required as follows and as set forth in the permit:
 
Total Waste Discharge (Million Gallons Per Year) Reporting Frequency
Less than 10                                     4 year
Between 10-100                                   6 year
Greater than 100                                 12 year
 
      (2)   The city may modify the above reporting schedule for a particular
industrial user based on the user's waste characteristics.
      (3)   Users subject to pretreatment standards shall submit reports to the
city in accordance with the applicable pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Wastewater discharge records of a user shall be kept by the user
for a period of not less than 3 years. The user shall provide the city
reasonable access to these records during normal business hours. A user subject
to an applicable pretreatment standard shall maintain all records required by
40 CFR 403.12(n) of the general pretreatment regulations.
   (I)   Monitoring facilities. 
      (1)   Monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems shall be
provided and operated by industrial users at the city's request.
      (2)   There shall be ample room provided in connection with such sampling
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for
analysis. The facility and sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the
user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the city, unless a time extension is otherwise granted
by the city.
   (J)   Inspection and sampling. 
      (1)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purposes of this chapter are being met and all requirements are
being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is
created or discharged shall allow the city ready access at all reasonable times
to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, and
records examination. The city, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) and
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shall have the right to set up on the
user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with any security guard so that upon presentation of suitable identification,
the city, MPCA and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
      (2)   In all cases the city's sampling data is final.
      (3)   Representative samples of a user's industrial wastewater shall be
collected on normal operating days and in accordance with guidelines
established by the city. Industrial users subject to pretreatment standards
shall sample in accordance with the pretreatment standards. Monitoring point(s)
for industrial users who are subject to pretreatment standards shall be at a
location before wastewater is mixed with other discharges or at a point where
waste can be adequately monitored. Normal operating days shall be days when the
user is engaged in operations that cause effluent discharge.
   (K)   Powers and authority of inspectors. 
      (1)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
      (3)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this subchapter.
      (4)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (L)   Pretreatment. 
      (1)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any facilities required to pre-treat wastewater shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under
the provisions of this subchapter or constitute a representation by the city
that such plans will cause compliance or work in conjunction with the user's
facility. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the
user's initiation of the changes.
      (3)   Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of the
commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater treatment system, shall
submit to the city during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard established by the city, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow reported in the user's permit application or prior
monitoring reports. The city may agree to alter the months during which the
above reports are to be submitted.
   (M)   Final compliance date, reporting requirements. Within 90 days
following the date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards,
or, in the case of the commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater
treatment system, any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements,
shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature and concentration of
all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user's facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the facility into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by the user, and certified to by a qualified registered professional
engineer.
   (N)   Confidential information. Information and data on a user obtained from
applications, permits, monitoring programs and inspections shall be governed by
the applicable laws governing its public or nonpublic status.
   (O)   Sludges generated. Sludges, floatings, skimmings, and other
undissolved particles generated by an industrial or commercial pretreatment
system shall not be placed into the city's wastewater treatment system. Such
sludges shall be contained, transported, and disposed of in accordance with all
federal, state, and local regulations.
   (P)   Slug or accidental discharges. 
      (1)   The city may immediately suspend the wastewater treatment service
of a user and/or a wastewater discharge permit (after formal notice to the
discharger) when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of city, in order
to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to
the environment, or to the wastewater treatment system, or would cause the city
to violate any condition of its NPDES or disposal system permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the
discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city may take such steps as it deems necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the wastewater treatment system or endangerment to any individuals. The city
will reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge and
payment to the city of the city's costs of terminating and restoring service. A
detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
slug or accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of
occurrence.
   (Q)   Revocation of permit. In accordance with the procedures in this
section, the city may revoke the permit of any user which fails to factually
report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge; which
fails to report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics; which refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring or for violation of conditions of its
permit, this subchapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, or where
continued discharge at the levels set forth in the permit would adversely
impact the wastewater treatment facility or the city's compliance with
applicable permits or laws and regulations governing the wastewater treatment
facility.
   (R)   Notification of violation. Whenever the city finds that any user has
violated or is violating the requirements of this chapter, its wastewater
discharge permit or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained
herein, the city may serve upon such user a written notice stating the nature
of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, unless a shorter
time frame is necessary due to the nature of the violation, a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user and
such plan shall be implemented within the same time period.
   (S)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by any notice or order of the city issued
under this section may file a petition for review of such notice or order. The
petition shall contain the name of the petitioner, the petitioner's address,
location of the property subject to the order or notice, and disclose
petitioner's interest in the property.
      (2)   The petition for review shall be filed with the City Administrator
within 10 days after the notice or order for which review is sought has been
served on the person requesting review.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Administrator, or designee,
shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least 5 days' prior
written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to
show cause why the notice or order should be modified or withdrawn. The
petitioner may be represented by counsel of petitioner's choosing at
petitioner's own expense.
      (5)   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Administrator or
designee, provided only that the person conducting the hearing shall not have
participated in the drafting of the order or notice for which review is being
sought.
      (6)   The person conducting the hearing shall make written findings of
fact and conclusions based upon the applicable code or permit provisions. The
person conducting the hearing may affirm, reverse or modify the notice or order
in conformity with the applicable code sections. Modification may be granted
where there is practical difficulty and undue hardship connected with the
performance, provided that such modification creates no hazard to safety and
deviates from the code only insofar as is absolutely necessary and does not
cause the city to have problems with maintaining compliance with its treatment
permits. All decisions rendered hereunder shall be filed with the City
Administrator.
   (T)   Appeal to Council. Any decision rendered pursuant to division (S)
above may be appealed to the City Council, A petitioner seeking to appeal a
decision must file a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator
within 10 days after the decision has been mailed to the petitioner. The matter
will thereupon be placed on the council agenda as soon as is practical. The
Council shall then review the findings of fact and conclusions to determine
whether they were correct. Upon a determination by the Council that the
findings and conclusions were incorrect, the Council may modify, reverse or
affirm the decision of the City Manager or his designee, upon the same standard
as set forth in division (S)(6).
   (U)   Transcripts. Any person who desires that a hearing, held pursuant to
divisions (S) or (T), be transcribed, shall make a written request that a court
reporter be present to record the hearing and post a $300 cash deposit with the
City Clerk at least 5 days prior to the date of each hearing for which
transcription in requested. The $300 deposit shall be applied to the costs of
court reporter services and any excess shall be refunded without interest to
the depositor. If the costs of transcription exceed the deposit, the requesting
party shall make full reimbursement to the city of the difference between the
costs of the deposits.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.68 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges wastewater, industrial wastes or other wastes into
the city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
city, the City Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief to terminate violation or unauthorized discharge and recover
all expenses allowed in this chapter. In addition to recovery of costs incurred
for violation of provisions contained in the ordinance, the imposition of a
penalty of up to $1,000 per day per occurrence may be assessed.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.69 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   A list of the users which are found to be in significant noncompliance
(SNC), violating applicable pretreatment requirements or national categorical
pretreatment standards during the 12 previous months may be annually published
by the city in a local newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months. For
the purposes of this provision, significant noncompliance violations would be
those violations which remain uncorrected days after notification of
noncompliance; which are part of a pattern of noncompliance over a 12 month
period; or which involve a failure to accurately report noncompliance; or as
described in the definition section of this document.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.70 COSTS OF DAMAGE.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this subchapter or who has a
discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage or other impairment to
the city's wastewater treatment system shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss, or damage caused by the violation or discharge. The city may add
to the user's charges and fees the costs assessed for any cleaning, repair, or
replacement work caused by the violation or discharge. Any refusal to pay the
assessed costs shall constitute grounds to deny discharge into the city's sewer
system and may be assessed against the real property as a special assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss, damage occasioned by the city by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.71 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter or wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required in §
52.67 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the city shall be entitled to seek any other remedy
available at law or in equity in order to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the community, including temporary and permanent injunctions.
(Ord. 238, passed 5-5-1-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Lights need not be displayed upon parked vehicles
   
70.02   Exhibition driving
   
70.03   Parking duration
   
70.04   Parking during a snow emergency
   
70.05   Parking semi-trucks, truck-tractors, and semi-trailers
Snowmobiles
   
70.15   Scope of application
   
70.16   Private property
   
70.17   Sidewalks and boulevards
   
70.18   Operation on roadways, public lands, and waters
   
70.19   Exceptions
   
70.20   Direct crossings
   
70.21   Hours of operation
   
70.22   Prohibited acts
   
70.23   Equipment
   
70.24   Unattended snowmobiles
   
70.25   Minimum age of operator
   
70.26   Prohibited operators
Golf Carts
   
70.50   Golf cart operation and regulations
Traffic
   
70.314   Speed
   
70.318   Driving rules
   
70.320   Right-of-way
   
70.330   Designation of through highways
   
70.400   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 LIGHTS NEED NOT BE DISPLAYED UPON PARKED VEHICLES.
    Requirements of M.S. § 169.53, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby exempted within city limits. Lights need not be displayed upon a parked
vehicle on city streets and highways when stopped or parked in accordance with
local parking regulations where there is sufficient light to clearly reveal any
person or object within a distance of 500 feet upon the street or highway.
(Ord. 140, passed 12-14-1987; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 )
§ 70.02 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Exhibition driving prohibited. No person shall turn, accelerate,
decelerate, or otherwise operate any motor vehicle with an unnecessary
exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city.
   (B)   Prima facie evidence. Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires or both, shall
constitute prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (C)   Violations. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective upon its passage and
publication.
(Ord. 97, passed 5-11-1981; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 PARKING DURATION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park, or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
   (B)   When any peace officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street in
violation of this section, the officer is hereby authorized to impound the
unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof and to remove
the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of safety; provided,
that if any charge such be placed against the vehicle for cost of removal or
storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith, the same shall be
paid prior to removal from the place of storage or safekeeping.
(Ord. passed 1- -1973 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 PARKING DURING A SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Declaration of a snow emergency. During the event of an accumulation
of 3 inches or more of snow, an emergency shall be deemed to exist. Said
declaration shall be made by the Public Works Director. For ice accumulations,
a snow emergency may be declared at the sole and exclusive discretion of the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Parking prohibited. During a snow emergency, it is unlawful to park or
leave standing any vehicle on any public street, until it has been fully
cleared, curb-to-curb. In addition, during a snow emergency it is unlawful to
park, or leave standing, any vehicle on any public street in the Business
District between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. until it has been fully
cleared, curb-to-curb.
   (C)   Impounding and removal of violating vehicles. When any police officer
finds a vehicle violating the provisions of this section, the officer is hereby
authorized to impound and tow those violating vehicles as a result of non-
compliance. Any charge placed against the subject vehicle for the cost of
towing, removal, and storage, shall be paid prior to the release of said
vehicle.
   (D)   Penalty. Any violation of this section shall be deemed a petty
misdemeanor offense punishable by up to a fine of $250.
(Ord. 70.04, passed 9-19-2022)
§ 70.05 PARKING SEMI-TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTORS, AND SEMI-TRAILERS.
   (A)   Parking in Business District regulated. No commercial vehicle weighing
more than 10,000 pounds vehicle weight capacity shall be parked in the Business
District except during the time necessary to continuously load or unload goods,
articles, or produce to or from the premises abutting the district and at such
places where such loading or unloading is otherwise permitted by this section.
   (B)   Semi-truck, truck-tractors, and semi-trailers parking regulated. All
vehicles of more than 10,000 pounds vehicle weight capacity shall be prohibited
from parking on any city streets, including MN State Hwy 60, for longer than 2
continuous hours. No such vehicles of more than 10,000 pounds vehicle weight,
shall be allowed to park in, or be upon, any alleys.
   (C)   Impounding and removal of violating vehicles. When any police officer
finds a vehicle violating the provisions of this section, the officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
remove it to a position in compliance with this section. If, in the officer's
discretion, the vehicle needs to be impounded and towed as a result of non-
compliance, or another public safety reason, the officer is authorized to
impound said vehicle and have the same towed to a facility or place of public
safety. Any charge placed against the subject vehicle for the cost of removal
and storage, or both, shall be paid prior to the release of said vehicle.
   (D)   Penalty. Any violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor
offense punishable by up to a fine of $1,000 and/or up to 90 days
incarceration, or both.
(Ord. 70.05, passed 8-15-2022)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 70.15 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   Notwithstanding provisions of this section to the contrary, this subchapter
shall apply to the control of traffic and regulations of a class of vehicles
falling within the definition of snowmobiles. All regulations regulating other
classes of motor vehicles and not specifically mentioned herein shall apply to
snowmobiles.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 )
§ 70.16 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is a petty misdemeanor to operate or store a snowmobile on private
property without permission or consent of the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.17 SIDEWALKS AND BOULEVARDS.
   It is a petty misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile on a sidewalk or
boulevard, except that a direct crossing may be made in the same manner as
provided for direct crossing of a street, highway, or road.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.18 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS, PUBLIC LANDS, AND WATERS.
   (A)   A snowmobile may not be operated on a state or county road or highway
within the city limits. A snowmobile may be operated on other streets, roads,
or highways within the city limits only as herein specified.
   (B)   It is a petty misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile upon streets,
roadways, highways, public lands, or waters, within the city as follows:
      (1)   At a rate of speed in excess of 15 mph;
      (2)   Other than in single file on a street, road, or highway;
      (3)   Other than to the extreme right of a street, road, or highway;
      (4)   On publicly owned land, including school land, park property,
playgrounds, and recreation areas; and
      (5)   Within 100 feet of any church property during church services,
within 100 feet of any school building, nursing home, skating rink, or sliding
area, or in any other area where the operation would conflict or interfere with
the normal use of the property or would endanger persons or property.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.19 EXCEPTIONS.
   Not withstanding the prohibition of operating a snowmobile to the contrary,
the operation is permitted on city streets only as follows:
   (A)   From the owner’s or operator’s residence or place of business or place
the snowmobile is generally stored, in a direct route to and/or from a place of
destination, provided such a place of destination is a place that such a
snowmobile may be lawfully operated, parked or serviced. The place of
destination is defined as follows:
      (1)   Any area outside of the city limits;
      (2)   Places for service or repair;
      (3)   Places to refuel; and
      (4)   Places for food and beverages.
   (B)   When a snowmobile departs from any of the above areas it shall take
the shortest and most direct route to their residence, place of storage, or
area outside of the City of Madison Lake. Operating a snowmobile within the
City of Madison Lake is not permitted other than for the above. Lawfully parked
would only include on private property with the owner’s or occupant’s
permission and with the keys removed.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 )
§ 70.20 DIRECT CROSSINGS.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile on a state or county highway or
roadway except to make a direct crossing, and only as follows.
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway or roadway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing.
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or the main highway or roadway.
   (C)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming vehicle traffic.
   (D)   The crossing is not to be made between the hours of 1/2 hour after
sunset to 1/2 hour before sunrise, or in conditions of reduced visibility, if
the front and rear lights are not on and properly operating.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.21 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile, within the city, between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. for any purpose other than going to or
returning from an evening ride where the operation is not prohibited. Or, in an
emergency during which time snow upon the streets or roadways renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.22 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is a misdemeanor to operate a snowmobile in the following manner:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances, but in no event in excess of 15 mph;
   (B)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to threaten or
endanger other persons or property, private or public, or to cause actual
injury or damage thereto;
   (C)   While under the influence of an intoxicating liquor, narcotics, or
drugs whether legal or not;
   (D)   To tow any person or object except through the use of a rigid tow bar,
attached directly to the rear of a snowmobile;
   (E)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over, injure, or kill any animal
with a snowmobile;
   (F)   To operate a snowmobile in any public or private nursery or planting
in a manner which damages or destroys growing stock;
   (G)   To operate a snowmobile in a manner so as to create excessive noise;
and
   (H)   Without front and rear lights illuminated when operating between the
hours of 1/2 hour after sunset and 1/2 hour before sunrise or in conditions of
reduced visibility.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.23 EQUIPMENT.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate or to allow someone to operate
a snowmobile unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and do reduce the noise
of the operation of the motor to the minimum necessary;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   An operating safety or “deadman” throttle;
   (D)   At least 1 clear headlamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons, vehicles or objects at a distance of at least 100
feet ahead and so aimed as to not glare into the eyes of on coming traffic. It
shall also be equipped with at least 1 red tail lamp having sufficient
intensity to be visible from a distance of 500 feet; and
   (E)   An approved helmet and eye protection, that is to be worn by operators
under the age of 18.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile unattended shall lock the ignition, remove
the key, and take the key with them.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.25 MINIMUM AGE OF OPERATOR.
    No person, under the age of 14 shall operate a snowmobile on any public
land, roadway, street, or water within the city. A person 14 years of age but
less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile as permitted in this
section, only if he or she has in their immediate possession a valid snowmobile
safety certificate issued by the Commissioner of Natural Resources, and then,
only for the purpose of travel between his or her home or location where the
snowmobile is stored, to a point where the snowmobile may be lawfully operated.
The travel must be accomplished by the shortest distance, taking the most
direct, permitted route. The person must also be wearing an approved helmet and
eye protection.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.26 PROHIBITED OPERATORS.
   Any person having lost their privilege to operate a licensed motor vehicle
because of frequent or serious moving traffic violations is prohibited from
operating a snowmobile within the limits of the City of Madison Lake until the
driving privilege is restored.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002 ; Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.50 GOLF CART OPERATION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. Motorized golf carts are hereby authorized to be used
on the streets and alleys of the city. Golf carts may be used so long as the
owner and operator have obtained a permit, as provided in this section, and the
motorized golf cart is operated in compliance with all applicable state and
local regulations.
   (B)   Application. Anyone desiring a permit to operate a motorized golf cart
pursuant to this section shall submit an application on the relevant form
authorized by the City Council. Said application must include the following:
      
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Applicant name and address;
      (3)   A description of the golf cart;
      (4)   Proof of current insurance;
      (5)   Signature of applicant; and
      (6)   The application may also require additional information as
determined by the City Council.
   (C)   Duties of City Administrator. The City Administrator or his or her
designee shall be the issuing agent for permits under this section. The City
Administrator will issue a city golf cart sticker/decal to applicants
qualifying for a permit.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   In order to operate a motorized golf cart on a city street or
alley, the golf cart shall display a slow moving vehicle emblem as provided for
in M.S. § 169.522. The motorized golf cart must be equipped with a rearview
mirror, front and rear running lights, and a city permit.
      (2)   The operator of a golf cart is required to have personal injury and
liability insurance for the use of the cart and provide proof of that insurance
when requested by law enforcement.
      (3)   Golf carts cannot be operated in excess speeds of 15 miles per hour
or 10 miles per hour with children under 10 on board.
      (4)   All passengers must be properly seated in a seat while the golf
cart is in motion. Lap seating is prohibited.
      (5)   Permits shall be issued for a period not to exceed 1 year and must
be renewed annually. The city issued sticker/decal shall be displayed,
unobstructed, on the front of the golf cart for which it is registered to, and
be clearly visible any time the golf cart is being operated on a city street or
alley. The City Council shall set the fee for the permit according to the
city’s fee schedule, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (6)   A permit may be revoked at any time that there is evidence that the
permittee cannot safely operate a motorized golf cart, the permittee has lost
his or her driving privileges, or the permittee has been convicted of 2 or more
violations of this section in a period of 1 year.
      (7)   A person aggrieved by the revocation of his or her license may
appeal such action to the City Council. The applicant must file a written
notice of the appeal to the City Administrator. This notice of appeal must be
made within 5 days of the notice of revocation. The City Council will then
determine, at this next scheduled meeting, if such an action was warranted. All
parties will be notified by mail of the time of the hearing.
      (8)   Golf carts are only allowed on streets and alleys within city
limits. Golf carts are only allowed to operate on county or state roadways for
the purpose of crossing that county or state roadway to a city roadway.
      (9)   All operators of motorized golf carts must have a valid driver's
license.
      (10)   Golf carts are not allowed in city parks or city sidewalks.
      (11)   Children under the age of 5 must have safety belt device or child
safety seat and be properly situated in it.
      (12)   Operation of a golf cart on MN State Hwy 60 is prohibited, except
that operators are allowed to cross MN State Hwy 60 at a 90° angle and then
immediately exit off the highway at the first available cross street.
   (E)   Penalty. Any violation of the terms and conditions of this section is
a misdemeanor offense punishable by incarceration of up to 90 days in jail and
a fine of $1,000 or both.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 7-7-2014; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 8-7-2023)
TRAFFIC
§ 70.314 SPEED.
   M.S. § 169.14, inclusive of its penalty provisions, is hereby adopted by
reference, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 70.318 DRIVING RULES.
   M.S. § 169.18, inclusive of its penalty provisions, is hereby adopted by
reference, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 70.320 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   M.S. § 169.20, inclusive of its penalty provisions, is hereby adopted by
reference, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 70.330 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   M.S. § 169.30, inclusive of its penalty provisions, is hereby adopted by
reference, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 70.400 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon its passage and
publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 224, passed 12-2-2002; Am. Ord. 12-17-2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
96.   PARADES
      
97.   PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Posted weight restrictions; unattended vehicles
   
90.002   Structure identification requirements
Street Improvements
   
90.015   Permit required
   
90.016   Application and regulations
   
90.017   Bond
   
90.018   General regulations for excavations
   
90.019   Refilling excavations
   
90.020   Map of subsurface installations
   
90.021   Effective date
Sidewalks; Construction Requirements
   
90.035   Grade requirements
   
90.036   Specifications
   
90.037   Materials to be used and dimensions
   
90.038   Dimensions on streets
   
90.039   Crosswalks
Sidewalks; Maintenance and Repair
   
90.050   Owners to keep sidewalks safe
   
90.051   Railings required
Sidewalks; Snow Removal
   
90.065   Owners to remove snow
   
90.066   Removal by the city
   
90.067   Assessment of snow removal cost
   
90.068   Notice of assessment
   
90.069   Objection and corrections
   
90.070   Appeal
Right-of-Way
   
90.080   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
90.081   Election to manage the public rights-of-way
   
90.082   Definitions
   
90.083   Administration
   
90.084   Utility Coordination Committee
   
90.085   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
90.086   Registration information
   
90.087   Reporting obligations
   
90.088   Permit requirement
   
90.089   Permit applications
   
90.090   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
90.091   Small wireless facility agreement
   
90.092   Action on small wireless facility permit applications
   
90.093   Permit fees
   
90.094   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
90.095   Joint application
   
90.096   Supplementary applications
   
90.097   Other obligations
   
90.098   Denial or revocation of permit
   
90.099   Installation requirements
   
90.100   Inspection
   
90.101   Work done without a permit
   
90.102   Supplementary notification
   
90.103   Revocation of permits
   
90.104   Mapping data
   
90.105   Location and relocation of facilities
   
90.106   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
90.107   Damage to other facilities
   
90.108   Indemnification and liability
   
90.109   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
90.110   Appeal
   
90.111   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 POSTED WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Madison Lake City Council shall be empowered to regulate weight
limits on public highways, streets, and alleys used by vehicles within the City
of Madison Lake, Blue Earth County, Minnesota, by posting the same as to weight
restrictions.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park, or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
   (C)   When any peace officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street in
violation of division (B) above, the officer is hereby authorized to impound
the unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof and to
remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of safety;
provided, that if any charge such be placed against the vehicle for cost of
removal or storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith, the
same shall be paid prior to removal from the place of storage or safekeeping.
(1970 Code, § 900) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.002 STRUCTURE IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Location of property numbers. Each owner and each occupant of a house
or commercial building in the City of Madison Lake shall place their property
address number of identification in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Property numbers of identification shall be placed so to be
directly and conveniently visible from public access to the house or building
in such manner that the numbers of identification may be easily and clearly
seen and read during the hours of darkness as well as daylight from the public
street.
      (2)   Property numbers of identification shall be placed on or above the
front door of any house or building if the front door of such house or building
is clearly visible from the public right-of-way.
      (3)   In the case of a house or building located in such manner that the
front door of the house or building is not clearly visible from the public
right-of-way, property numbers of identification shall be placed near the
intersection of the driveway or road serving the house or building at a
location clearly visible from the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Address identification materials.
      (1)   Address numbers of identification shall be constructed of durable
material and shall be of contrasting color to the base to which they are
attached.
      (2)   All property numbers of identification shall be a minimum of 4
inches in height.
   (C)   Enforcement. It is the duty of the Chief of Police, or his or her
designated authority, to enforce this section. The Chief of Police shall give
the owner or occupant of any house or building which does not conform with this
section 15 days written notice within which to comply with the terms thereof.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 9-21-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 90.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except an authorized city employee or a contractor performing
work under a contract with the city, shall make any excavating in a street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground without first having secured a permit
therefore from the City Clerk-Treasurer. The fee for the permit shall be as
listed in
Ch. 33, Appendix A: Fees, Charges, Licenses and Permits for each location
covered by the permit, but no fee shall be required for an excavation made
pursuant to a permit for sewer or water construction.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.016 APPLICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare the necessary application forms and
permits required under this code. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall also prepare
the rules and regulations with respect to excavations as he or she finds
necessary to protect the public from injury, prevent damage to public or
private property, and minimize interference with the public use of streets,
alleys, sidewalks, and public grounds. Any person making an excavation covered
by this section shall comply with the rules and regulations.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.017 BOND.
   (A)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation or a bonded plumber
may file with the City Clerk-Treasurer a corporate surety bond conditioned that
the permittee will:
      (1)   Perform work in connection with the excavation in accordance with
applicable ordinances and regulations;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of the work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city by reason of the
failure of the permittee to observe the terms of applicable ordinances and
regulations or because of negligence in the execution of the work.
   (B)   The bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the City
Attorney.
   (C)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation shall furnish proof
that the permittee has in existence an insurance policy protecting equal to the
maximum claim the city might be required to pay under M.S. Chapter 466, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982)
§ 90.018 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Street openings shall be made in a manner that will cause the least
inconvenience to the public.
   (B)   In removing pavements, sidewalks, and similar structures, the
excavation shall be straight cut and chipped to true line and vertical faces.
   (C)   Provision shall be made for the passage of water along the gutters and
at least 1/2 of the traveled portion of the street shall be left open and in
good condition for the safe passage of vehicles. Open excavations shall be
guarded with substantial barriers and marked with red flags and at night with
red lights or flashing devices. Pipes or mains exposed to freezing temperatures
shall be protected so as to prevent freezing. Any person responsible for
exposing a city main or pipe so that it might be damaged by freezing shall be
liable to the city for all damages caused by the freezing and all damages
sustained by others by the freezing for which the city may be liable.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.019 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Every street excavation shall be refilled as soon as possible after
the work is completed and paving, sidewalks, and appurtenances shall be
replaced in at least as good condition as before the excavation to the
satisfaction of the City Maintenance Superintendent.
   (B)   Excavations shall be refilled according to Standard Specifications for
Highway Construction of the Minnesota Department of Transportation. Compaction
shall be every 6 inches with suitable fill material. (MNDOT standards §
2105.3DE.F2)
   (C)   All dirt and debris shall be remove immediately. Any person who fails
to comply with these requirements within 24 hours after notice from the city
shall be liable to the city for the full cost incurred by the city in remedying
the defect and restoring the street, alley, sidewalk, or public ground to its
proper condition. The cost shall be an obligation of the surety on the bond of
the permittee.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.020 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   The Street Superintendent and City Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a map
showing the locations of all utility and other installations made beneath the
surface of any public street, grounds, or right-of-way. The information on the
map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate to permit anyone making an
excavation in a public place having any underground installation to avoid
damage to any existing underground installation and to properly locate any new
underground facilities. New facilities installed shall be recorded on the map
as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an excavation permit or the
completion of a contract for the installation of city underground
installations.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982)
§ 90.021 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon its passage and publication
according to law.
(Ord. 108, passed 5-10-1982)
SIDEWALKS; CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 90.035 GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
   All sidewalks constructed within the City of Madison Lake shall be
constructed and laid to the grade now or hereafter established by the City
Council.
(1970 Code, § 915) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.036 SPECIFICATIONS.
   On Sixth Avenue in the Townsite of Madison Lake, and on the street
corresponding thereto and extending southerly through Barclay’s Addition No. 2
to Madison Lake Townsite, Allyn’s Addition to Madison Lake Townsite, Point
Pleasant Townsite, and on Walnut Street from South Avenue to Seventh Avenue,
all sidewalks shall be constructed of cement or stone. On Sixth Avenue in the
Townsite of Madison Lake between Walnut Street and the middle line of the
right-of-way of the Wisconsin, Minnesota, and Pacific Railway all sidewalks
shall be 8 feet wide including the curb; on all other streets or parts of
streets designated in this section all sidewalks shall be 6 feet wide including
the curb, unless otherwise specifically directed by the Council.
(1970 Code, § 915) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.037 MATERIALS TO BE USED AND DIMENSIONS.
   When the sidewalks on any of the streets and parts of streets designated in
§
90.036 are constructed of cement the curb shall be of sufficient width and
depth to give the sidewalks stability and permanence. When the sidewalks are
constructed of stone, the stone shall not be less than 4 inches thick and shall
in all cases be whole stone extending unbroken the full width of the walk, and
all the sidewalks constructed of stone shall be constructed with a stone curb 6
inches thick and not less than 2 feet wide, which curb shall be firmly set in
not less than 6 inches of sand.
(1970 Code, § 915) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.038 DIMENSIONS ON STREETS.
   On all streets and parts of streets within the City of Madison Lake not
designated in §
90.036, all sidewalks shall be 4 feet wide including the curb, unless the City
Council shall otherwise specially direct, and shall be constructed of the
materials and in the manner as the City Council shall direct, and shall be
constructed with a curb when so required by the City Council, which curb shall
be of the dimensions and material as the City Council shall direct.
(1970 Code, § 915) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.039 CROSSWALKS.
   All crosswalks in the city shall be constructed under the direction of the
Street Commissioner of the city and shall be constructed of the materials and
in the manner as the City Council shall direct.
(1970 Code, § 915) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS; MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
§ 90.050 OWNERS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS SAFE.
   The owner of every lot or tract of land within the City of Madison Lake
adjacent to or upon which any sidewalk or crosswalk has been or shall hereafter
be constructed shall without notice of any kind repair, when out of repair or
in any unsafe condition all the sidewalks and shall keep and maintain the
sidewalks at all times in good repair and in a safe condition.
(1970 Code, § 920) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.051 RAILINGS REQUIRED.
   Whenever any sidewalk in the City of Madison Lake shall be or shall have
been so constructed as to be elevated more than 2 feet above the ground
contiguous thereto on the inside of the same the owner of the lot or tract of
land adjacent to or upon which the sidewalk shall be situated, shall construct
and maintain along the edge of the sidewalk at all places so elevated above the
ground a substantial railing at least 3 feet high, upon the sidewalk with posts
and rails, both 2 by 4 in size, and securely fastened.
(1970 Code, § 920) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALKS; SNOW REMOVAL
§ 90.065 OWNERS TO REMOVE SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of every lot, tract, or parcel of land
within the City of Madison Lake, to remove or cause to be removed from the
sidewalk or sidewalks in front of, adjacent to, or adjoining the lot, tract, or
parcel of land so owned by him or her, all snow, and ice by 10:00 a.m. of each
day.
(1970 Code, § 930) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.066 REMOVAL BY THE CITY.
   In case the owner of any such lot, tract, or parcel of land, fails to comply
with the provisions of §
90.065, it shall be the duty of the Councilperson in charge of the Department
of Streets and Alleys of the city, to immediately remove or cause to be
removed, the snow and ice, from the sidewalk or sidewalks in front of,
adjoining or adjacent to the lot, tract, or parcel of land. A report shall be
made to the Council on the cost of the removal in each case with a description
of the lot, tract or parcel of land from which snow and ice have been removed.
The report shall be filed by the City Clerk-Treasurer for assessment.
(1970 Code, § 930)
§ 90.067 ASSESSMENT OF SNOW REMOVAL COST.
   The cost of the removal, including the necessary expense of making and
collecting the assessment, shall be assessed upon the real estate or lots of
land benefitted by the removal.
§ 90.068 NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall mail a 10-day notice of assessment to the
owner of any lot, tact or parcel of land where snow and ice has been removed by
the city or a city hired contractor. A notice of the time and place of the
Council hearing will be specified in the assessment notice and will be
confirmed unless sufficient cause is shown to the contrary.
(1970 Code, § 930)
§ 90.069 OBJECTION AND CORRECTIONS.
   Objections and a chance to be heard by the Council must be filed with the
City Clerk-Treasurer 1 day before the time specified in the assessment notice,
If objections, the Council shall proceed on the hearing in the same manner and
shall have the power to revise, correct, confirm or set aside the assessment or
to proceed de novo, as in cases of other assessments.
(1970 Code, § 930)
§ 90.070 APPEAL.
   All assessments when confirmed shall be final and conclusive, unless
appealed from, and shall be collected and enforced as other assessments. In
case of an appeal, the appeal shall not delay or affect the collections of the
assessment, except as to the property appealed from.
(1970 Code, § 930)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 90.080 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this new chapter of this code
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes
reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and
equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and
Federal agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the
rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this
chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons
using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws,
Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and 2017 Minn. Laws, Ch. 94, Art. 9,
amending the Act, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city
and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall also be interpreted
consistent with Minn. Rules 7819.0050 through 7819.9950 and Minn. Rule, Ch.
7560 where possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot be
interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most
consistent with the act and other applicable statutory and case law is
intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.081 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
M.S. § 237.163, Subdivision 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.082 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply in this chapter of this code. References
hereafter to “sections” are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections
in this chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not
capitalized.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned
unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate, install, or
obstruct in a city right-of-way.
   CITY. The city of Madison Lake, Minnesota. For purposes of §
90.108, city also means the city's elected officials, officers, employees, and
agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
city or other governmental unit.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, Subdivision 3, over a continuous length in
excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at permittee's option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73,
Subdivision 3;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rule 7819.1100, means the cost to achieve
a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates one to 13, set
forth in Minn. Rules, parts 7819.9900 through 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or her
or his designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.093.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of such person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS. The actual costs the city incurs in managing its rights-
of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the city including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the city, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, Chapter 123; M.S. §§ 237.162 or 237.163; or any ordinance enacted
under those sections, or the city fees and costs related to appeals taken
pursuant to §
90.110 of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
90.093.
   PATCH OR PATCHING. A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of:
      (1)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
      (2)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum of
two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch is may
be considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the city's
five-year project plan and the city agrees.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in M.S. § 237.162.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate, install, or obstruct in
a right-of-way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates one to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
   RESTORE OR RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the city has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the city. A right-of-way does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. 
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S., §
237.162, Subdivision 4; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute or furnish 'gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, Subdivisions 4 and 6;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S., Ch. 308A; and
      (6)   Water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.  A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna transmitter and/or receiver or antenna is located
inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume or could fit
within such an enclosure; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than 28 cubic feet
in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate, install, or
obstruct in more of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit
that had already been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER. A person owning or controlling a
facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
right-of-way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless
service, or transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information.
For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in M.S. § 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power agency  organized
under M.S. Ch. 453 and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes
of this chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision
of wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and a
small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless
service does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including cable service.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.  A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the city.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.083 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.084 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   The city may create an Advisory Utility Coordination Committee.
Participation on the Committee is voluntary. It will be composed of any
registrants that wish to assist the city in obtaining information and, by
making recommendations regarding use of the right-of-way, and to improve the
process of performing construction work therein. The city may determine the
size of such committee, membership qualification, and shall appoint members
from a list of registrants that have expressed a desire to assist the city.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.085 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a city ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter, however other chapters may apply. However, nothing herein relieves a
person from complying with the provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call
Law.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.086 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under state law as recorded and certified to by the
secretary of state.
         (h)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable state or Federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said commission or other state or Federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.087 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the city. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the city and shall contain the information determined by
the city to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (1)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (2)   The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (3)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (4)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.088 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct, install, or excavate in any right-of-way, or install or place
facilities in the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate
right-of-way permit from the city to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate, install, or obstruct in the
right-of-way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   Such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000, subp. 3 and
division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and impose a delay
penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, installation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.089 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit is made to the city. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Registration with the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   (D)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing.
   (E)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.090 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and Federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. Rule Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city's written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than 10 feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
   (D)   Small wireless facility agreement. 
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment of the following:
         (a)   Up to $150 per year for rent to collocate on the city structure.
         (b)   Twenty-five dollars per year for maintenance associated with the
collocation;
         (c)   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows: these numbers
are set forth in Minnesota State Statue:
            1.   Seventy-three dollars per radio node less than or equal to 100
maximum watts;
            2.   One-hundred and eighty two dollars per radio node over 100
maximum watts; or
            3.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant,
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.091 ACTION ON SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Deadline for action. The city shall approve or deny a small wireless
facility permit application within 90 days after filing of such application.
The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building permit
application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or deny the
application within the review periods established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated applications. 
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (C)   Tolling of deadline. The 90-day deadline for action on a small
wireless facility permit application may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a seven-
day period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to to the review period.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.092 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued valid without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees.
The city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
90.103 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.093 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
90.097.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
90.097.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.094 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate, install, or obstruct in the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction,
installation, or excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint
application by two or more registrants or a single application, are not
required to pay the excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the
permit fee, but a permit would shall still be required.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.095 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed, installed, or excavated must before working in that
greater area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.096 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and Federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rule Ch.
7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable
codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work
done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the
work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles or
trailers of those doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or
next to a permit area, unless parked in conformance with city parking
regulations. The loading or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the
defined permit area unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to Horizontal Directional Drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rule Ch. 7560 and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the Director.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.097 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Procedural requirements. The denial or revocation of a permit must be
made in writing and must document the basis for the denial. The city must
notify the applicant or right-of-way user in writing within three business days
of the decision to deny or revoke a permit. If an application is denied, the
right-of-way user may address the reasons for denial identified by the city and
resubmit its application. If the application is resubmitted within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of denial, no additional application fee shall be
imposed. The city must approve or deny the resubmitted application within 30
days after submission.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.098 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the M.S., §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation
of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rule Ch. 7560
and these ordinances. Service lateral installation is further subject to those
requirements and conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits
and/or agreements referenced in §
90.103(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.099 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
90.103.
      (3)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee to immediately
secure any area deemed to be a serious threat to the life, health, safety or
well-being of the public.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.100 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.101 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.102 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit.
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens.
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit.
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control.
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
90.099.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.103 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the city's electronic mapping system, when
practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the
permit holder's registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rule 7560.0150,
subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence
satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law
and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31,
2005, shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under M.S. Ch. 429; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The Director shall reasonably determine
the appropriate method of providing such information to the city. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or future permits to
the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.104 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with all
provisions of the city's code, the permit, and with other applicable law, and
with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules
do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other
agreement between the applicable right-of-way user and the city. Facilities in
the right-of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in
accordance with the City Code.
   (C)   Corridors. 
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facility that
is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be located
within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits issued
by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall
designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the
registrant.
   (D)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (E)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the
city shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
city shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.105 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. 216D.01 through
216D.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any
right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the
area to be excavated shall mark with stakes and flags the horizontal and
vertical placement of all said facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are
less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work
closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its
facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.106 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.107 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the
facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of-way
are governed by Minn. Rule 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.108 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.109 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the city.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.110 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that:
   (A)   Has been denied registration;
   (B)   Has been denied a permit;
   (C)   Has had a permit revoked;
   (D)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with M.S. §
237.163, Subdivision 6; or
   (E)   Disputes a determination of the Director regarding §
90.103(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided
the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include
the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming
the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.111 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2- -2018)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §
90.080 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. See §
10.99.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Running at large prohibited
   
91.03   Animal Pound
   
91.04   License requirements
   
91.05   Non-domestic animals
   
91.06   Farm animals
   
91.07   Kennels
   
91.08   Animal noise
   
91.09   Animals presenting danger to health and safety of the city
   
91.10   Diseased animals
   
91.11   Basic care
   
91.12   Interference with officers
   
91.13   Effective date
   
91.14   Chickens; keeping, housing, and maintenance
   
91.15   Grazing of goats
 
Beekeeping
   
91.30   Beekeeping limited
   
91.31   Violations
   
91.32   Effective date
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, the animals shall include dogs, cats,
caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish, non-
poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and any
other similar animals.
      (2)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, the animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyote, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this subpart, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
      (3)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys) fowl (duck, geese)
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs) goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stables.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 91.02 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or
cat, or the parents or guardians of any such person under 18 years of age, to
allow such dog or cat to run at large. All dogs or cats are required to be on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person and shall be permitted in streets
or on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading "Dogs
or Cats Prohibited." Any subsequent running-at-large complaint within a 30-day
period shall result in the issuance of a citation. Any dog or cat running at
large that cannot be caught shall be treated as follows:
   (A)   An attempt will be made to determine the owner.
   (B)   The owner will be issued a dated, written warning describing the
details of the violation and the animal's description. The warning letter may
state that the animal was observed off-leash off of the owner's property, and
if observed again off-leash and off the owner's property by a city employee
within the next 30 days, a citation will be issued and penalties will be
assessed as available by law.
(Am. Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99 (B)
§ 91.03 ANIMAL POUND.
   (A)   Generally. Any dog or cat found in the City of Madison Lake without a
tag, or running at large, that can be caught shall be transported to the
Mankato Pound (Animal Pound) or other future designated animal pound. The
Police Department shall keep an accurate record of the time of the placement of
each dog or cat. Every dog or cat impounded shall be retained for a period of 5
days. If unclaimed, the dog or cat will become the property of the Mankato
Humane Society.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment. A written notice of impoundment shall be posted
at City Hall, 525 Main Street, Madison Lake, Minnesota, upon the impoundment of
an animal running at large. The notice will remain posted for a period of 5
days, Sundays and legal holidays excluded, unless claimed by the owner.
   (C)   Release from Animal Pound. Prior to releasing the animal from the
Animal Pound, all fees must be paid in full.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 91.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   A license shall be required for every dog and cat over the age of 6 months
kept in the City of Madison Lake. This shall not apply to any dog or cat
temporarily present within the City of Madison Lake for a period of less than
30 days. The owner shall apply to the City Clerk for a license for such animal.
The Clerk shall record the licenses issued and furnish the applicant with a tag
and certificate for each license. The tag shall have a stamped number with the
certificate bearing the corresponding tag number. The applicant shall attach
said tag to a collar or chain around the neck of the animal in a secure manner.
Licenses for dogs and cats shall be issued annually. License fees shall be set
by the City Council of the City of Madison Lake by ordinance and may be changed
from time to time in the same manner.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004; Am. Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any owner of such an
animal at the time of adoption of the Code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004; Am. Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city or
on a residential lot of at least 10 acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 KENNELS.
   The keeping of 3 or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city. The
keeping of 3 or more dogs or cats or combination thereof on the same premises,
whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall
constitute a KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept for a
period of 3 months before the keeping shall be deemed to be a KENNEL. Because
the keeping of 3 or more dogs on the same premises is subject to great abuse,
causing discomfort to persons in the area, by way of smell, noise, hazard, and
general aesthetic depreciation, the keeping of 3 or more dogs on the premises
is hereby declared to be a nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a
kennel within the city.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004; Am. Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 ANIMAL NOISE.
   (A)    Disturbing the peace. It is unlawful for any owner of an animal to
suffer or permit such animal to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood
by unreasonable barking, howling, whining, yowling, or making any other loud or
unusual noise. Upon the Police Department receiving a complaint, the following
actions will be taken:
      (1)   The complaint will be investigated to determine if a violation has
occurred. A violation will have occurred if barking, howling, whining, and the
like is made intermittently for more than 3 minutes with one minute or less
lapse of time between each animal noise during the 3-minute period. Such noise
must be audible off of the owner's or caretaker's premises.
      (2)   If a violation has occurred, a dated notice will be sent to the
owner notifying the violation. A duplicate copy of the notice will be sent to
the complainant.
      (3)   If another violation occurs within 30 days, the owner will be
mailed a citation with the fine being equal to the impound fee plus all
applicable court fees.
   (B)   Animal seizure for disturbing the peace. Any police officer may enter
onto private property and seize any animal which is disturbing the peace as
outlined in §
91.08(A) herein, provided that the following conditions exist:
      (1)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer
making a contemporaneous complaint about the barking.
      (2)   The officer reasonably believes that the barking meets the criteria
set forth in §
91.08(A).
      (3)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least 1 previous
complaint about the animal noise.
      (4)   The officer has made reasonable attempts to contact the owner of
the animal or the owner of the property, and those attempts have either failed
or have been ignored.
      (5)   The seizure will not involve forced entry into a private residence.
Use of a passkey obtained from a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or
other person authorized to have such key shall not be considered forced entry.
      (6)   No other less-intrusive means to stop the animal noise is
available.
      (7)    Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
   (C)   Damage to property. The owner of any animal shall prevent the animal
from committing the following act which shall constitute a nuisance: Allowing
the animal to dig up or otherwise damage the garden, shrubbery, lawn or other
property of a person other than the owner. The animal's owner must pay the
property owner for any such damage caused.
(Am. Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or police officer an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, the
officer may destroy the animal. Otherwise the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the animal pound for confinement. In such a case,
the owner or keeper of the animal shall be liable for the cost of impoundment
and maintenance provided, and if the animal is destroyed, a charge will be paid
by the owner to dispose of the animal. If the animal is found not to be a
danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to the owner or
keeper in accordance with this subchapter. The animal may be released to other
persons in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or allow to be kept on their premises, nor permit to
run at large within the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger
to the health and safety of the city, even though the animal be properly
licensed under this subchapter. Any animal reasonably suspected of being
diseased and presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be
apprehended and confined in the animal pound by any city employee or police
officer. The police officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the
animal. If the animal is found to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a
danger to the health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal
to be destroyed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner of the
animal killed under this section shall be liable for the cost of maintaining
and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examinations.
If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased within the meaning
of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner free of charge.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in such a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats, or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in such cooperation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this section, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this section.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective upon passage and publication.
(Ord. 225, passed 10-4-2004)
§ 91.14 CHICKENS; KEEPING, HOUSING, AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Chickens permitted. It is unlawful for any person to own, control,
keep, maintain, or harbor chickens on any premises unless issued a permit to do
so as provided in this section. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or
harboring of more than 5 female chickens or hens on any premises. The keeping
or harboring of male chickens or roosters is prohibited and the premises upon
which the chickens are kept must be the property owner's primary residential
dwelling.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises or not under
the custody and control of the owner.
      CHICKEN. A female chicken or hen.
      CHICKEN COOP. A structure for housing chickens made of wood or other
similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
      CHICKEN RUN. An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
      PERSON. The resident, property owner, custodian, or keeper of any
chicken.
      PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts
of land and is located within the city.
   (C)   Permit.
      (1)   No person shall maintain a chicken coop and/or chicken run unless
granted a permit by the City Administrator. The permit shall be subject to all
the terms and conditions of this section and any additional conditions deemed
necessary by the Administrator or designated Animal Control Officer to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare. The necessary permit application may be
obtained from the City Administrator's office. Included with the completed
application must be a scaled diagram that indicates the location of any chicken
coop and/or chicken run, and the approximate size and distance from adjoining
structures and property lines, the number and species of chickens to be
maintained at the premises, and a statement that the applicant/permittee will
at all times keep the chickens in accordance with this section and all the
conditions prescribed by the Animal Control Officer, or modification thereof,
and failure to obey such conditions will constitute a violation of the
provisions of this section and grounds for cancellation of the permit. The
applicant shall include written consents/approval of the keeping of chickens on
their premises from 75% of the abutting property owners, or shall provide proof
of the certified mailing of a notice, and copies of said notice(s) to all
abutting property owner(s) which advises the abutting property owner(s) the
applicant is applying for a permit from the City of Madison Lake for the
keeping of chickens on their premises, the abutting property owner may object
to the applicant's permit application, any objection must be received by the
City Administrator within 10 days of the mailing date of said notice, and
failure to provide written objections to the City Administrator within 10 days
of the mailing of said notice will authorize the City Administrator to issue a
permit for the keeping of chickens to the applicant at their premises. Upon
receipt of a permit application, the Administrator shall determine if the
application is complete and contains the required consents/approvals and/or
proof of the certified mailing of the required notices. If the application is
complete and includes written consents/approval from 75% of abutting property
owners, the Administrator shall issue a permit for the keeping of chickens to
the applicant.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for an incomplete application or for the
keeping of chickens on any rental premises. A permit for the keeping of
chickens may be revoked or suspended by the Administrator or designated Animal
Control Officer for any violation of this section following written notice. The
applicant/permittee may appeal the revocation or suspension of their permit by
requesting in writing a hearing before the City Council within 7 days of the
notice of revocation or suspension. The request for hearing must be either
postmarked or received in the City Administrator's office within 7 days of the
date of the notice. The City Council shall hold a hearing on the applicant/
permittee's request for hearing within 30 days of the request for hearing. The
permit fee shall be charged in accordance with the City of Madison Lake's fee
schedule and shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (D)   Confinement. Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or
harbors chickens must keep them confined at all times in a chicken coop and
chicken run and may not allow the chicken to run at large. Any chicken coop and
chicken run shall be at least 10 feet from any neighboring adjacent dwelling,
and 25 feet from any rear yard setback.
   (E)   Chicken coops and chicken runs.
      (1)   All chicken coops and chicken runs must be located within the rear
yard or an accessory structure in the rear yard of the subject property subject
to a 10-foot setback from any property line, 25 feet from any rear yard
setback, and at least 10 feet from any neighboring adjacent dwelling. All
chicken coops must be a minimum of 4 square feet per chicken in size, must not
exceed 10 square feet per chicken in size and must not exceed 10 feet in total
height. Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed 20 square feet per
chicken and fencing must not exceed 6 feet in total height. Chicken runs may be
enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials and may allow chickens contact
with the ground. Chicken feed must be kept in metal predator-proof containers.
Chicken manure may be placed in yard compost piles.
      (2)   Chicken coops must either be:
         (a)   Elevated with a clear, open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop;
         (b)   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed
using rodent-resistant construction; or
         (c)   Constructed of the same quality materials as the primary
structure.
      (3)   Chicken coops are not allowed to be located in any part of a home
and/or garage.
      (4)   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to sunrise
each day and no chickens shall be allowed to run outside of the coop.
      (5)   All coops shall be constructed and maintained in a workmanlike
manner.
      (6)   All coops shall be rodent proof and built in such a manner as to
prevent access to the coop by rodents.
   (F)   Conditions and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains, or harbors chickens shall permit the premises where the chickens are
kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to
permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors are carried to
adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop or chicken run authorized
by permit under this section may be inspected at any reasonable time by the
designated Animal Control Officer, law enforcement officer or other agent of
the city. A person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for examination
upon demand by the Animal Control Officer, law enforcement officer or other
agent of the city. Slaughter and breeding of chickens on any premises within
the city is prohibited.
   (G)   Private restrictions and covenants on property. Notwithstanding the
issuance of a permit by the city, private restrictions and/or covenants on the
use of property shall remain enforceable and take precedence over a permit.
Private restrictions include but are not limited to deed restrictions,
condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood association by-laws,
covenant declarations and deed restrictions. A permit issued to a person whose
premises are subject to private restrictions and/or covenants that prohibit the
keeping of chickens is void. The interpretation and enforcement of the private
restriction is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
   (H)   Refusal to grant or renew permit. The City Administrator may refuse to
grant or renew a permit to keep or maintain chickens for failure to comply with
the provisions of this section, submitting an inaccurate or incomplete
application, if the conditions of the permit are not met, if a nuisance
condition is created, or if the public health and safety would be unreasonably
endangered by the granting or renewing of such permit.
   (I)   Removal of chicken coop and chicken run. Any chicken coop or chicken
run constructed or maintained on any premises shall be immediately removed from
said premises after the expiration of the permit or shall be removed within 30
days upon ceasing to use the chicken coop and/or chicken run for the keeping of
chickens.
   (J)   Slaughtering of chickens. The slaughtering of chickens on the property
is strictly prohibited.
   (K)   Violations a misdemeanor. Any person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors chickens in the City of Madison Lake without obtaining or
maintaining a current permit or after a permit has been suspended or revoked by
Council action shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, any person who
violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor which
is punishable by imprisonment for up to 90 days in jail and/or the imposition
of a fine of up to $1,000, and/or a combination of both.
   (L)   Inconsistent provisions. Any Madison Lake city code or zoning code
provision inconsistent with the provisions of this section shall be of no force
and effect.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 91.15 GRAZING OF GOATS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to allow prescribed grazing of
goats on property in the corporate limits of the City of Madison Lake for a
specified period and for the express purpose of controlling invasive and/or
noxious vegetation and to reduce runoff of chemicals into the lakes and waters
of the City of Madison Lake. Prescribed grazing is intended to provide an
alternative to the use of chemicals as the means to control undesirable
vegetation and chemical runoff. It is also intended to provide an alternative
means to control undesirable vegetation on steep slopes or other challenging
terrain where it is difficult for humans to access.
   (B)   Duration of a prescribed grazing activity. The duration of a
prescribed grazing activity shall be consistent with the following:
      (1)   Properties under 2 acres in area. On properties with an area of
less than 2 acres, prescribed grazing shall not be permitted in the Al and R1
Zoning Areas for more than 30 consecutive days. No more than 2 prescribed
grazing permits may be issued within 1 year for the property. There shall be a
minimum of 60 days between the expiration of the first permit issued and the
second permit issued in a 1-year period.
      (2)   Properties 2 or more acres in area. On properties with an area of 2
or more acres in the Al and R1 Zoning Areas, the duration of the prescribed
grazing activity shall be as specified by the Zoning Administrator or other
authorized agent of the city in the approved prescribed grazing permit.
   (C)   Proper enclosure. The prescribed grazing activity shall be fully and
properly enclosed at all times. Proper enclosure refers to any combination of
temporary or permanent fences or structures designed to prevent the escape of
the prescribed grazing animals and to protect the prescribed grazing animals
from the intrusion of other animals. It must include netting. All sides of the
enclosure(s) shall be of sufficient height and the bottom of the enclosures
shall be constructed or secured in a manner as to prevent prescribed grazing
animals from escaping over or under the enclosure(s). Enclosures shall meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Permanent enclosures. Fences, with netting, and structures
constructed to enclose prescribed grazing animals, but intended to remain at
the expiration of the prescribed grazing activity, shall comply with the
regulations for the zoning district in which the prescribed grazing is located
and shall be permitted separately from the prescribed grazing activity.
      (2)   Temporary enclosures. Temporary fencing, with netting, and
structures for the sole purpose of enclosing prescribed grazing animals shall
be allowed for the duration of the prescribed grazing as specified by the
Zoning Administrator or other authorized agent of the city in the approved
prescribed grazing permit. Temporary fences, with netting, may be electric or
electrified as specified in the approved prescribed grazing permit. Where
electric fences are used, the Zoning Administrator or other authorized agent of
the city may require a double fence system with a non-electric outer fence to
serve as a safety barrier to reduce the possibility of the public coming in
contact with the electric fence.
      (3)   Any electric or electrified fence in association with a prescribed
grazing activity must have a warning sign posted on every boundary of the
enclosure at least every 50 feet along each side of the fence. The warning sign
shall clearly identify the electric fence. No single sign shall exceed 4 square
feet in area. Each sign shall be clearly visible on the approach to the fence
and be posted on or within 1 foot of the electric or electrified fence.
   (D)   Animal welfare. The welfare of the prescribed grazing animals must be
ensured by the owner of the prescribed grazing animals.
   (E)   Supervision. The prescribed grazing service must list on its grazing
permit application contact information for the party responsible for promptly
addressing issues associated with prescribed grazing on the specified property.
The responsible party shall be available to be contacted at all hours of the
day and all days of the week. Contact information shall include the name,
telephone number, physical and mail address, and email address for the contact
person.
   (F)   Health.
      (1)   Prescribed grazing animals must receive proper veterinary treatment
and regular deworming. In the event that a prescribed grazing animal becomes
ill, hurt, or perishes, the owner of the prescribed grazing animal(s) must
provide immediate on-site care or remove the animal(s) from the property
promptly if immediate on-site care cannot be provided.
      (2)   Male goats used for prescribed grazing must be neutered. Male goats
less than 6 months of age that accompany an adult female goat shall be exempt
from the neutering requirement.
   (G)   Storage of supplement feed. Any feed for the prescribed grazing
animals (other than the vegetation on the property that is intended for
grazing) must be securely stored so as not to encourage vermin or other pests.
   (H)   Protection of significant natural resources. Prescribed grazing shall
not adversely affect significant natural resources. Prescribed grazing
activities shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Prescribed grazing activities shall comply with the best management
practices established by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, and all other pertinent agencies.
      (2)   Prescribed grazing activities shall not impair water quality as
defined by the Federal Clean Water Act.
      (3)   Threatened or endangered plant species shall not be negatively
impacted by prescribed grazing activities.
   (I)   Identification signage. A single sign, not to exceed 4 square feet in
area and not to exceed 4 feet in height if freestanding, shall be erected and
visible from the nearest public right-of-way, but not in the public right-of-
way. The Zoning Administrator or other authorized agent may approve an
alternate location for the sign or may require more than 1 identification sign
if needed to comply with the intent of this section. The sign shall include the
prescribed grazing permit number for the issued permit and the phone number for
a 24-hour contact for the prescribed grazing animals. The sign shall be present
for the duration of the prescribed grazing activity and shall be promptly
removed at the conclusion of the prescribed grazing activity.
   (J)   Insurance. When an applicant submits an application for a prescribed
grazing permit, the applicant shall also submit a current, effective insurance
policy or a copy thereof providing liability insurance covering claims arising
out of the prescribed grazing activity.
   (K)   Prescribed grazing permit and fee. A prescribed grazing permit
approved by the City of Madison Lake shall be required for each prescribed
grazing activity covering a specified period. The fee for said permit shall be
established according to the city's fee schedule, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2023-03, passed 4-10-2023)
BEEKEEPING
§ 91.30 BEEKEEPING LIMITED.
   No person shall keep by him or her within 500 feet of the property line of
any other property owner, nor shall any person keep or have at any 1 location
more than 1 hive of bees in any case. Bees kept contrary to this subchapter are
hereby declared a public nuisance and may be abated according to law.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.31 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs, or by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.32 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after passage and
publication in summary form.
(Ord. 134, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
91.01 et seq. for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed
for any crime which is a misdemeanor under §§
91.01 et seq., including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference,
shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000,
or both.
   (B)   Any first issuance of a citation pursuant to §
91.02 or §
91.08(A) shall be a petty misdemeanor. Any subsequent violation within any 12-
month period shall be a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The penalty for non-licensed animals pursuant to §
91.04 shall be a petty misdemeanor punishable by up to a maximum $300 fine or
maximum petty misdemeanor fine as stated by law.
   (D)   Separate offences. Each day a violation of §§
91.01 et seq. is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such under this section.
   (E)   Petty misdemeanor. Any violation designated a petty misdemeanor under
§§
91.01 et seq. shall be punishable by the maximum for a petty misdemeanor as set
by the State of Minnesota.
   (F)   Misdemeanor. Violation of any provision of §§
91.01 et seq. not specifically designated a petty misdemeanor shall constitute
a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Fees. Any and all fees addressed in §§
91.01 et seq. shall be set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 243, passed 8-6-2007)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   General conduct
   
92.04   Protection of natural resources and wildlife
   
92.05   Camping
   
92.06   Swimming
   
92.07   Boating
   
92.08   Fishing
   
92.09   Horseback riding
   
92.10   Bicycling
   
92.11   Winter activities
   
92.12   Meetings, speeches, demonstrations, and parades
   
92.13   Vehicles
   
92.14   Motorized recreational vehicles
   
92.15   Park recreation
   
92.16   Enforcement
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter, which is enacted pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, is to secure the quiet, orderly, and suitable use and enjoyment of
public parks, recreation areas, wildlife sanctuaries, trees, historical sites,
and public access to lakes, and streams in parks established by City of Madison
Lake, and to further the safety, health, comfort, and welfare of all persons in
the use thereof.
(1970 Code, § 935:01)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. A beverage containing not more than 3.2% alcohol by
weight.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization seeking a permit to use or conduct an
activity in a park
or recreation area.
   COUNCIL. The City of Madison Lake Council of Madison Lake, Minnesota.
   DRUG. Any substance defined as a controlled substance by Minnesota Statutes
or federal law or regulation.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Any liquor which is intoxicating pursuant to Minnesota
law and includes ethel alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous, and
malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol of weight.
   MADISON LAKE CITY PARKS. A park organization in the City of Madison Lake.
   MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled, off-the-road, or all-
terrain conveyance, including, but not limited to, a snowmobile, minibike,
amphibious vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, trail bike, or dune buggy.
   PARK VISITOR. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental unit, company, or organization of any kind within a park.
   PARK. Any land or water area, and all facilities thereon, established as a
park by the City of Madison Lake pursuant to Minnesota Statutes.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the City
Council permitting a use,
event, or activity in the park organization.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The person designated by the Council with the
responsibility for the operation and management of the parks, or his or her
authorized representative.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn, or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size, kind, or
description. Exception is made for wheelchairs, baby carriages, and vehicles in
the service of the City of Madison Lake parks.
   WEAPON. Any device from which shot or a projectile of any type can be
discharged by means of an explosive, gas, or compressed air or otherwise
propelled, including, but not limited to, firearms, bows and arrows, slings,
and spring guns.
   WILDLIFE. All living creatures, not human, wild by nature, endowed with
sensation and power or voluntary motion, including quadrupeds, mammals, birds,
fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, and mollusk.
(1970 Code, § 935:06)
§ 92.03 GENERAL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Use threatening, abusive, obscene, or indecent language or act in a
manner or to do any act which tends to reasonably arouse, alarm, anger or cause
resentment to others, constitutes a breach of public peace in a park;
   (B)   To bring or possess any glass beverage container into any park or
recreation area;
   (C)   To be under the influence of intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquors
or to use, be in possession of, or be under the influence of drugs;
   (D)   Disturb, harass, or interfere with any park visitor’s property;
   (E)   Deposit, scatter, drop, or abandon in any park any bottles, cans,
broken glass, sewage, or other material, except in receptacles provided for the
purposes;
   (F)   Throw, discharge, or place in or upon any lake, stream, creek, pond,
or other body of water in or adjacent to a park, or any tributary, storm sewer,
or drain flowing into the waters any substance, liquid, solid, or gas;
   (G)   Use any land or body of water within a park for a starting or landing
field for aircraft, balloons, or parachutes without a permit from the City
Council, the Public Works Director, or his or her authorized representative;
   (H)   Start a fire in a park, except a small fire for culinary purposes in a
designated area, or fail to fully extinguish such a fire;
   (I)   Drop, throw, or otherwise leave unattended in a park lighted matches,
burning cigars, cigarettes, tobacco, paper, or other combustible material;
   (J)   Sell, solicit, or carry on any business or commercial enterprise or
serve in a park unless authorized by the Council in writing;
   (K)   Use loud speakers or other amplifying systems in a park except with
written permission from the City Council or their authorized representative;
   (L)   Dig trenches;
   (M)   Use a boat for sleeping quarters when tied on park water frontage;
and/or
   (N)   Pets are not permitted in parks unless there are signs stating
otherwise. No person shall allow any pet to run at large. Animals must be
physically restrained by a leash not longer than 6 feet. Animals will not be
allowed to disturb or annoy others. Animal waste must be removed by the person
in charge of the animal.
(1970 Code, § 935:11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 PROTECTION OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND WILDLIFE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Injure, destroy, or remove any tree, flower, shrub, plant, rock, soil,
or mineral in any park area;
   (B)   Kill, trap, hunt, pursue, or in any manner disturb or cause to be
disturbed any species of wildlife within a park, except that fishing may be
permitted in designated areas;
   (C)   Shoot any weapon in or into a park from beyond park boundaries;
   (D)   Possess any weapon within a park without a permit obtained from the
City Council, the Public Works Director, or his or her authorized
representative; and/or
   (E)   Release within a park any plant, chemical, or other agent potentially
harmful to the vegetation or wildlife or the park.
(1970 Code, § 935:16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 CAMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp in a park.
(1970 Code, § 935:21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 SWIMMING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Wade or swim within a park except at beaches designated for that
purpose, and then only between sunrise and sunset; or the hours as may be
designated by the City Council or authorized representative. Park visitors
shall swim or wade at their own risk;
   (B)   Wade, swim, or use any beach in the park without proper bathing
attire; and/or
   (C)   Use air mattresses, inner tubes, or other inflatable devices, except
in designated beach areas.
(1970 Code, § 935:25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 BOATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Launch or land any boat, yacht, canoe, raft, or other watercraft upon
any water, lagoon, lake, pond, or slough within a park, except at locations and
times designated for that purpose;
   (B)   Leave unattended any boat or watercraft, except in areas designated
for that purpose;
   (C)   Operate any watercraft in a designated swimming area, other prohibited
area; and/or
   (D)   Operate any watercraft in violation of Minnesota Statutes or any other
law, statutes, or ordinance with water and watercraft safety.
(1970 Code, § 935:30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 FISHING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Fish in a park in violation of any provision of Minnesota Statutes;
   (B)   Fish in a park area designated as a no-fishing area; and/or
   (C)   Fish in a park area designated as a swimming area.
(1970 Code, § 935:35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09 HORSEBACK RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, lead, or permit a horse to be
within a park.
(1970 Code, § 935:40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10 BICYCLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle except on park-
designated bikeways and roadways and except as close to the right-hand side
thereof conditions will permit.
(1970 Code, § 935:45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 WINTER ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to skate, sled, coast, snowmobile,
snowshoe, or ski in a park except at the places as may be designated therefor.
(1970 Code, § 935:50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.12 MEETINGS, SPEECHES, DEMONSTRATIONS, AND PARADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct public meetings, assemblies,
entertainment, parades, or demonstrations within the park without first
obtaining a written permit from the City Council, or his or her authorized
representative, and then only in areas designated in the permit.
(1970 Code, § 935:55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate any vehicle within a park except upon roadways, parking areas,
or other designated locations therefor;
   (B)   Operate a motorized vehicle without a valid driver’s license;
   (C)   Operate a vehicle in a park in a speed in excess of posted speed
limits;
   (D)   Park or leave a vehicle standing within a park except in a designated
parking area;
   (E)   Operate a vehicle which emits excessive or unusual noise, noxious
fumes, dense smoke, or other polluting matter;
   (F)   Operate a vehicle in a reckless or careless manner in a park;
   (G)   Wash, polish, grease, change oil, or repair within the park;
   (H)   To operate any nonlicensed motorized vehicles such as dirt bikes or
mini bikes within the boundaries of any city park; and/or
   (I)   To operate any motor vehicle on roads which are posted, chained, or
gated prohibiting vehicular traffic.
(1970 Code, § 935:60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14 MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate a motorized recreational vehicle within a park except in such
areas and at such times as designated by the City Council and their authorized
representative; and/or
   (B)   Operate a motorized recreational vehicle without a valid driver’s
license.
(1970 Code, § 935:65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.15 PARK RECREATION.
   (A)   No persons shall remain within a park within the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. except for fishing on lake access area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any facility or area for
which a fee or charge has been established by the City Council without payment
of a fee or charge.
   (C)   The City Council shall not be liable for any loss or injury sustained
by a park visitor.
   (D)   Any park or portion thereof may be declared closed to the public by
the City Council, the Public Works Director, or his or her authorized
representative, at any time, and for interval of time, or to certain uses, as
the City Public Works Director, or his or her authorized representative, shall
find it reasonably necessary.
(1970 Code, § 935:70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A person guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Officers of Madison Lake Police or Blue Earth County Sheriff’s
Department may, in connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Designated park employees may, in connection with their duties imposed
by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter and may eject from
parks persons acting in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The City Council, or their authorized representatives, shall have the
authority to revoke for good cause any permit issued.
   (E)   The City Council shall have the right to issue administrative rules
and regulations that may be established by the City Council as it seems
necessary.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent employees or agents of the park
system from performing their duties.
   (G)   No persons shall impersonate any employee of the park’s system nor
interfere with, harass, nor hinder any employee in the discharge of his or her
duties.
   (H)   If any provision of this chapter is held to be invalid, the invalidity
shall not affect the validity other provisions of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 935:75) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
93.001   Public nuisance
   
93.002   Public nuisances affecting health
   
93.003   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
93.004   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
93.005   Nuisance parking and storage
   
93.006   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.007   Building maintenance and appearance
   
93.008   Improperly maintained buildings and structures
   
93.009   Duties of city officers
   
93.010   Abatement
   
93.011   Recovery of cost
   
93.012   Disposition of property upon abatement
Weeds
   
93.025   Weed and grass elimination
   
93.026   Notice
   
93.027   Removal by city
External Solid Fuel-Fired Heating Devices
   
93.030   Applicability
   
93.031   Definitions
   
93.032   Requirements
   
93.033   Non-conforming use
Open Burning
   
93.040   Definitions
   
93.041   Burning organic matter permitted
Noises
   
93.055   Prohibiting unnecessary noises
   
93.056   Interpretation
   
93.057   Violations
Drug Labs and Chemical Dump Sites
   
93.070   General provisions
   
93.071   Disclaimer of liability
   
93.072   Fees
   
93.073   Definitions
   
93.074   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
93.075   Law enforcement action
   
93.076   Seizure of property
   
93.077   Action by City Council and/or Clerk-Treasurer
   
93.078   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
93.079   Site owner’s responsibility for costs
   
93.080   City action and recovery of costs
   
93.081   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
93.082   Site owners and address
   
93.083   Unauthorized removal of postings
   
93.084   Entry into or onto site
   
93.085   Removal of personal property from the site
   
93.086   Violations
Mobile Storage Containers
   
93.090   Purpose
   
93.091   Applicability
   
93.092   Definition
   
93.093   Requirements
Structures in Hazardous Condition
   
93.100   Hazardous buildings or hazardous properties prohibited
   
93.101   Notice to abate
Cross-reference:
   For further information on Hazardous Structures, see §§
116.01-
116.14
   Fire Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 95
NUISANCES
§ 93.001 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty does any
of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
      (1)   Creates, maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably
annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of
any considerable number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
chapter or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
   (B)   All such acts constitute misdemeanors, and shall be punished as
misdemeanors, unless otherwise stated herein.
   (C)   The city may enforce this section by abatement as provided in this
chapter. This subchapter is supplementary and shall not deprive the city of any
of its powers with respect to nuisances and abatement thereof, whether derived
from common law, statute, or ordinance. The City Council may at it option
proceed under this section or any other law or ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.002 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, as to render the
occupancy of property uncomfortable to a person of ordinary sensibilities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under any required license.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.003 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept or used for the purpose of prostitution, or unlawful
gambling;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose;
   (F)   Urination or defecation on any street, sidewalk, alley, public
building or public facility, or any place open to the public, other than in
properly functioning sanitary facilities, or exposed to the public view; and
   (G)    Public intoxication.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.004 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   Snow and ice removal.
      (1)   All snow/ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
storm event has ceased to fall shall be a violation;
      (2)   Unless specifically pre-approved by the city’s Director of Public
Works, it shall be unlawful to deposit snow/ice that is removed from private
property onto public property, including boulevard areas, except that snow/ice
which is removed from boulevard areas of driveways and sidewalks may be placed
on adjoining boulevard areas;
      (3)   Snow/ice removed from private property may not be deposited upon
other private property without the consent of the owner thereof;
      (4)   Snow/ice removal operations shall not interfere with the use of
public streets or sidewalks. This provision shall not apply to those present on
site and engaging in removal activity that constitutes active clearing snow/ice
from the respective property;
      (5)   Snow/ice removal operations, including but limited to those removal
operations conducted via motor-powered equipment, shall not interfere with
visibility at intersections or curves of any public street within the city;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All noise in violation of state noise standards;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, or any recreational
device except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by section;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (M)   Accumulations in the open (i.e., not contained within a building or
any fully enclosed fence) of any of the following items or any parts or
accessories thereto:
      (1)   All dangerous unguarded machinery or component parts therefor, in
any public place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract
the public;
      (2)   Garbage, trash, rubbish, bottles, cans, and any other refuse on any
property, including large quantities of organic debris and materials that
accumulated by other than natural means, except neatly maintained compost
piles;
      (3)   Household furniture, appliances, or furnishings or component parts
thereof;
      (4)   Any motor vehicle, which is inoperable, not currently licensed, or
generally is not being driven;
      (5)   Items which are not generally or normally used on the particular
premises;
      (6)   The accumulation of any piles of wood that are not:
         (a)   Neatly stacked; or
         (b)   Stacked or secured in a stable manner to avoid collapse;
      (7)   Any other materials or items of any kind or nature which tend to
harbor rats, mice, snakes, or vermin or are otherwise a potential fire, health,
or safety hazard from such accumulations;
      (8)   (a)   Construction materials, including piles of dirt, sand, sod,
left in the open on property more than 60 days after construction has been
completed or a certificate of occupancy has been issued, whichever occurs
first;
         (b)   Accumulations of any items that tend to cause an unsightly
appearance of the premises and that is visible by any member of the public who
may be using their own property or public property, or which negatively impacts
property in the vicinity.
   (N)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (U)   To own or have control of property or a building thereon, which
property or building has incomplete landscaping or exterior finish and for
which no permit for construction work has been issued within the preceding 12
months;
   (V)   All buildings, walls or other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay or otherwise, and which are so situated as to endanger the safety
of the public; and
   (W)   A structure, or a portion of a structure, located in a residential
zoning district, if the exterior is not completed in accordance with city-
approved construction plans within 180 days after the date the city building
permit was issued, unless an extension is granted by the city.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 2023-07, passed 10-2-2023) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.005 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles, recreational
vehicles, off-highway recreational vehicles, watercraft and vehicles,
materials, supplies, or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below are declared to be public
nuisances because they:
      (1)   Obstruct views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Create cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevent the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decrease adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affect property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of non-permanent structures outside for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard
area of residential property, except that vehicles, ice fish houses, or other
recreational habitable vehicles are allowed provided they are placed on a
parking area that is fully compliant with the city's Zoning Ordinances,
Nuisance Ordinances, and all other provisions of the city's Municipal Code.
Vehicles, ice fish houses, and other recreational habitable vehicles shall be
stored, parked, or placed on a paved or gravel driveway. For the purposes of
this section only, all properties, including riparian properties, the front
yard shall be defined as that section of the yard which abuts the city street
and continues to the front face of the primary structure.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the placement
or existence of a dumpster outside on residential property unless it complies
with the following requirements:
         (a)   A dumpster must be placed only on a paved or graveled parking or
driveway area as far away from the public street as reasonably possible;
         (b)   A dumpster may not be on the paved portion of a public street;
         (c)   A dumpster may be used only in connection with construction
activity that has been properly permitted by the city, in which case it may
remain no longer than 180 days in any 12-month period, or the clean-up of
property, in which case it may remain no longer than 30 days in any 12-month
period;
         (d)   There can be no more than one dumpster per parcel; and
         (e)   A dumpster must be maintained in a reasonably sound condition,
with no holes and little rust or peeling paint.
      (4)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than one recreational habitable vehicle (i.e. motorhome,
camper, etc.) may be parked outside on 1 lot. Additional recreational vehicles
may be temporarily parked for up to 6 months while marked for sale;
         (b)   Recreational vehicles, watercraft and/or recreational off-
highway vehicles parked outside must be stored in an orderly manner to not
receive complaint or detract from neighboring property values;
         (c)   Recreational vehicles, watercraft and/or recreational off-
highway vehicles parked outside are considered accessory uses;
         (d)   Storage includes but is not limited to the outside storage of:
recreational vehicles, watercraft, recreational off-highway vehicles,
playhouses, portable storage sheds, playground equipment, cars. Outside storage
is limited to the following max size depending on the formula below:
            Lot Size (square footage) minus Principal Building and All
Accessory Buildings, Decks, Patio (square footage) multiplied by 8% equals
square footage allowed for storage. Minimum of 300 square feet and a maximum of
900 square feet allowed on a premises.
         Example:
            7,500 square foot property - (Principal Building 768 square feet +
1st floor addition (96 square feet) + Wood Deck (196 square feet) + Garage (720
square feet) = 5,720 square feet x 8%= 458 square feet for storage.
            458 square feet is estimated to allow for: two cars stored outside
(90 square feet each = 180 square feet) and a 35 foot camper (280 square feet).
         (e)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area;
         (f)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property;
and
         (g)   Vehicles, watercraft and other recreational vehicles or
recreational off-highway vehicles parked or stored outside on residential
property must be licensed and in operable condition.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014; Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 4-6-2020) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 93.006 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store, or abandon any motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for
repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §
168B.011, Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city.
   (C)   Any motor vehicles described in this section are a public nuisance
because they constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of
the community in that the vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a
shelter and breeding place for vermin and present physical danger to the safety
and well-being of children and citizens; and vehicles containing fluids which,
if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health risks to
the community.
   (D)   Abatement.
      (1)   Impounding. A police officer or other authorized person may order a
vehicle constituting a public nuisance to be immediately removed and impounded.
The impounded vehicle will be surrendered to the owner by the towing contractor
only upon payment of the required impound, towing and storage fees.
      (2)   Sale. Notice and sale of a vehicle impounded under this section
will be conducted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 168B governing the sale of
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.007 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences, and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   A building, fence, or other structure is a public nuisance if it
does not comply with applicable Hazardous Structure and Housing Maintenance
provisions of
Chapter 116 or the International Property Maintenance Code, which is hereby
adopted as if fully set forth herein.
      (2)   A building, fence or other structure is also a public nuisance if
it does not comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks, and loose
or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly surface coated
where required to prevent deterioration;
         (b)   All exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door
and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks, and fences shall
be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows,
doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. All
metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such
rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust and corrosion shall be stabilized
and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be
removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement;
         (c)   Every window, skylight, door and frame shall be kept in sound
condition, good repair and weather tight. All glazing materials shall be
maintained free from cracks and holes;
         (d)   All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units, and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door;
         (e)   All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall
facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair
with proper anchorage and in a safe condition;
         (f)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and not have
defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness or
deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from
obstructions. Roof water may not be discharged in a manner that creates a
public nuisance;
         (g)   All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally sound, and in good repair. All
exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the elements against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment; and
         (h)   All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and free from
open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition as to prevent the
entry of rodents and other pests.
   (C)   Extension of time. In the case of demonstrated hardship due to sources
beyond the control of the property owner (including, but not limited to,
extreme weather conditions; reasonably unforeseen material, equipment or labor
shortages; vandalism; or theft), the time allowed for exterior construction and
finishes may be extended at the sole discretion of the city upon written
appeal.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.008 IMPROPERLY MAINTAINED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. A building or structure in the city is a
public nuisance affecting public safety and health if the City Building
Official, Zoning Enforcement Officer or Fire Marshal find it to be dangerous to
public safety, health, or to other property by reason of:
      (1)   Damage by fire;
      (2)   Defective chimneys or stovepipes;
      (3)   Dilapidated condition or decay;
      (4)   Defective electric wiring;
      (5)   Defective gas installation;
      (6)   Defective heating apparatus;
      (7)   Defective sewage disposal system or plumbing; or
      (8)   Any other defect endangering the public safety, health, or other
property.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, Zoning Enforcement Officer or the Fire Chief
may order the nuisance abated by ordering its repair, correction, or removal.
This order must be in writing and must order the repair, correction or removal
of the nuisance within 30 days or other time that the Building Inspector or
Fire Marshal deems reasonable. This order must be served upon the owner, the
lessee or the occupant by mail or by personal service. The order may provide
that the building or structure not be further used or occupied until the repair
or correction of the defect.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.009 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of
Chapter 93 the Police Department, Fire Department, or Sheriff or person
designated by the City Administrator may enforce the provisions relating to
nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall have the power to
inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations
of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police officer or designated
person shall enter private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing
public nuisances without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person
in control of the property, unless the officer or person designated has
obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing
the entry, as provided in §
10.20(D). No person shall resist, oppose, or obstruct such officers in the
lawful enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.010 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Nuisance determination/notice of violation. Whenever a peace officer
or designated person determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or
exists on the premises in the city, the officer or person designated shall
notify in writing the owner of record and any lessee or occupant of the
premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The
notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance
and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated.
   (B)   Written notice of violation shall be served by a peace officer or
designated person or the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises are not occupied,
the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
   (C)   If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council.
   (D)   City Council action.
      (1)   City Council consideration. Without affecting any other penalty
provision in this chapter, the City Council may, in conjunction with such
penalty or in the alternative, in the form of a resolution, declare that there
exists upon privately owned lands or premises a public nuisance.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and any lessee or occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or
registered mail. If the premise is not occupied, the owner of record is
unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the
City Council hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting
it on the premises.
      (3)   Resolution. The City Council may determine, by resolution, that the
condition identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order
that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City
Council, the city may cause the removal or abatement of such nuisance.
      (4)   Notice of the passage of the resolution shall be served personally
upon the owner of the premises or his or her agent or owner of record and any
lessee or occupant of the premises if the names of such persons can be readily
ascertained. Such notice may be served by certified or registered mail in all
cases where such owner, agent, or occupant is not in the city or cannot be
found therein. Such notice may likewise be served by posting for 24 hours a
copy of such notice upon the premises where the nuisance exists or whenever the
owner or agent thereof is not known or cannot be found and a post office
address is unknown. The notice shall designate therein the time after the
service or the mailing or the posting of the notice which the Council considers
a reasonable time for the abatement or removal of such nuisance and the right
for the abatement or removal of such nuisance and the right to demand a hearing
before the City Council made in writing within 24 hours of the notice of
abatement and that, if no hearing is demanded, any right to a hearing is
waived.
      (5)   If the Council by resolution declares there is a public nuisance,
the owner, agent or occupants of the premises, after notice described above,
shall remove and abate the nuisance. The cost of such removal or abatement
shall be paid by the owner, agent, or occupants.
      (6)   If such order is not complied with within the time specified
herein, the city shall cause the removal or abatement of such nuisance and the
cost thereof shall be assessed against the premises, pursuant to M.S. §
429.101.
   (E)   Emergency procedure; summary abatement. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any
condition which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
The enforcing officer may provide for abating a public nuisance without
following the standard abatement procedure required in divisions (A) and (B)
above when:
      (1)   There is an immediate threat to the public health or safety;
      (2)   There is an immediate threat of serious property damage;
      (3)   A public nuisance has been caused by private parties on public
property; or
      (4)   If the enforcing officer abates the nuisance under this section,
the officer must reasonably attempt to notify the owner record and any lessee
or occupant, and/or other responsible party of the intended action and the
right to appeal the abatement and any cost recovery at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting.
   (D)   Civil action. In conjunction with City Council action, or in lieu
thereof, the city may seek injunctive relief to terminate or restrain a public
nuisance. Upon appropriate order of the court permitting city abatement, the
City Council may, by resolution, order immediate abatement by the city, and
dispensing with the notice and hearing requirements of division (B).
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.011 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall, on or
before November 15 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total
unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.012 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY UPON ABATEMENT.
   Upon the declaration of certain conditions and acts to be a public nuisance
in violation of city code and, if the City Council requires such conditions to
be abated, the council may order the property constituting the nuisance to be
removed, destroyed or disposed of, to ensure the termination of the nuisance.
Upon seizure of the property constituting the nuisance, the city will inventory
the property, and the City Administrator or the City Administrator's designee
will determine whether the items seized have any reasonable value, in excess of
city costs to store and dispose of the property. If, after inventory, the City
Administrator or his or her designee makes a determination that no reasonable
value of the property exists or that destruction of the property is necessary
to abate the nuisance, the property shall be destroyed. If the City
Administrator or his or her designee, however, determines such destruction is
not necessary and there is reasonable value remaining in the property, the
property shall be sold. The amount of money received as a result of any sale,
if any, shall be applied against the cost of abatement, including all costs
incurred by the city in the abatement, including without limitation the cost of
the removal, storage, handling, destruction and disposal thereof, all staff
time, legal and other consulting fees. Any balance remaining after such
reimbursement to the city, if any, shall be remitted to the property owner.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
WEEDS
§ 93.025 WEED AND GRASS ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law or not, and grass growing
upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any street or
alley in the City of Madison Lake, to a greater height than 6 inches or which
have gone or are about to go to seed are a nuisance. The owner and the occupant
shall abate or prevent the nuisance on the property and on land outside the
traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on the property.
   (B)   Exceptions. Environmental Areas–noxious weeds need not be removed from
the following:
      (1)   Native plant areas;
      (2)   Managed areas–rain gardens, and the like;
      (3)   Cliff areas; and
      (4)   Wooded areas.
(Ord. 197, passed 5-18-1998; Am. Ord. 240, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-14,
passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.026 NOTICE.
   When the owner and occupant permit a nuisance weed or grass taller than 6
inches to exist in violation of §
93.025, the city shall serve notice upon the owner of the property if he or she
resides in the municipality and can be found or upon the occupant in other
cases, by registered or certified mail or by personal service, ordering the
owner or occupant to have the weeds cut and removed within 5 days after receipt
of the notice and also stating that in case of noncompliance such work will be
done by the maintenance superintendent or workers at the expense of the owner
and that if unpaid, the charge for the work will be made a special assessment
against the property concerned. When no owner, occupant, or agent of the owner
or occupant can be found, the provision for notice shall not apply.
(Ord. 197, passed 5-18-1998; Am. Ord. 240, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-14,
passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.027 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   If the owner or occupant of any property in the city fails to comply with
the notice within 5 days after its receipt, or if no owner, occupant, or agent
of the owner can be found, the city maintenance workers shall cut and remove
the weeds and/or grass. The Maintenance Superintendent or Weed Inspector shall
keep a record showing the cost of the work attributable to each separate lot
and parcel and shall deliver the information to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Costs
shall be rounded up to the nearest hour and billed based off fees established
annually by the Council for a worker and equipment.
(Ord. 197, passed 5-18-1998; Am. Ord. 240, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-14,
passed 12-1-2014)
EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES
§ 93.030 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all external solid fuel-fired heating devices
within the city.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of
generating heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace, or other heating device within
a building used for human habitation.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating,
construction or maintenance activities.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to campfires; a small outdoor fire
intended for recreation or cooking but not including a fire intended for
disposal of waste wood or refuse.
(Ord. 248, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE.  A device designed for external
solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a
building and includes solid fuel-fired stove, solid fuel-fired cooking stoves,
and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. Solid fuel-fired
heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs, wood burning
fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company or other
association.
   STACK or CHIMNEY. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building, or
upon an outdoor solid fuel-fired heating device, and enclosing a flue or flues
that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid fuel-fired heating device;
especially the part of such a structure extending above a roof.
(Ord. 248, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.032 REQUIREMENTS.  
   No external solid fuel-fired heating devices designed and intended and/or
used, for the purpose of heating the principal structure or another accessory
structure on the premises are allowed to be installed within the city.
(Ord. 248, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.033 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   The lawful use of any existing wood-burning unit or solid fuel-fired
heating device existing at the time of the effective date of this subchapter
may be continued, although such use may not conform to the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No pre-existing, non-conforming wood-burning unit or solid fuel-fired
heating device shall hereafter be extended, enlarged or expanded.
   (C)   At such time as the useful life of a non-conforming wood burning unit
or solid fuel-fired heating device has elapsed or would need to be repaired to
function properly, the unit cannot be replaced and must be abandoned, not used
and removed from the property immediately.
(Ord. 248, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURNABLE ORGANIC MATTER. Leaves, grass clippings, dried vegetation, twigs,
and tree limbs.
   GARBAGE. Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing,
storage, preparation, serving, and consumption of food.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct, or chimney.
   OPEN BURNING RESTRICTED. At no time shall any person cause, allow, or permit
the open burning of any garbage, rubbish, or any other substance not included
in the definition of burnable organic matter.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES. Fires set for recreational, ceremonial, food
preparation, or social purposes are allowed and do not require an agency
permit. The material to be burned must be limited to a pile no larger than 3
feet in diameter by 3 feet high. Only unpainted and untreated wood, coal, or
charcoal may be burned.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste such as paper, cardboard, and other
matter not including garbage.
(Ord. 198, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.041 BURNING ORGANIC MATTER PERMITTED.
   Permits shall be required for the open burning of burnable organic matter
April 15 through May 15 and September 15 through December 15 of each year.
(Ord. 198, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
NOISES
§ 93.055 PROHIBITING UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   (A)   A person must not make, or assist in making, permit, or allow the
making of a noise that is excessive, disturbing, unnecessary, unreasonable or
unusually loud within the limits of the city. The factors that should be
considered in determining whether a noise is excessive, disturbing,
unnecessary, unreasonable or unusually loud for the purposes of this section
include the following:
      (1)   The time of day or night when the noise occurs;
      (2)   The duration of the noise and whether the noise is recurrent,
intermittent, or constant;
      (3)   The proximity of the noise to a sleeping facility or residential
area;
      (4)   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the noise
emanates and the area where the noise is perceived;
      (5)   The number of people and their activities that are affected or are
likely to be affected by the noise; and
      (6)   The sound peak pressure level of the noise, if known, in comparison
the level of ambient noise.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration
shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or operated
any radio, radio receiving set, stereo system, musical instrument, CD player,
phonograph, or other machine or device for the reproduction of sound in such a
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants with a louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for
the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle, or chamber in which the
machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto;
      (2)   The operation of a radio, radio receiving set, stereo system,
musical instrument, CD player, phonograph, or other machine or device between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section
if done in a manner to be plainly audible:
         (a)   At the real property boundary of the building, structure,
residence, or other area in which it is located; or
         (b)   At a distance of 50 feet from any motor vehicle in which it is
located.
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, ATV
vehicle, snowmobile, or other vehicle in the manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise, including excessive
muffler noise or continual sounding of a horn, siren, or other signaling device
for period longer than 15 seconds, except in cases of imminent danger or
emergency, or to use the vehicle off the street on private or public property
in the manner as to cause long or continuous or unnecessary noise so as to
annoy, disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Any noise that is unreasonably disturbing to a reasonable person of
ordinary sensitivity in any multi-family residential building audible beyond
the boundaries of the area or premises owned, rented, leased, or used by the
person;
      (5)   Participation in a party or gathering that creates noise that is
unreasonably loud or disturbing to a reasonable person of ordinary sensitivity
as determined at the property line or boundary of the building, structure,
rental unit, yard, or other portion of the property where the party or
gathering occurs. When a party or gathering creates unreasonably loud or
disturbing noises, all persons except the owner, renter, lessee or other
occupants must promptly leave the premises in an orderly manner, after being
ordered by a police officer to do so; and
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any truck to intentionally use dynamic
brakes (Jake Brakes) within the City of Madison Lake, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 203, passed 8-16-1999; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.056 INTERPRETATION.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit the normal
activities incidental to exhibitions or shows conducted by the permission of
the City Council, even though the activities exceed time limits and other noise
limits set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 203, passed 8-16-1999; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.057 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this subchapter is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 203, passed 8-16-1999; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRUG LABS AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
§ 93.070 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or
associated dumpsite may exist. Professional reports, based on assessments,
testing, and investigations, show that chemicals used in the production of
illicit drugs can condense, penetrate, and contaminate surfaces, furnishings,
and equipment of surrounding structures. The City Council finds that the sites,
and the personal property within the sites, may contain suspected chemicals and
residues that place people, particularly children or adults of child bearing
age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site or using or
being exposed to contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application.  In the interpretation and application
of this subchapter, the provisions herein shall be construed to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this subchapter are either more or less restrictive to the public
than comparable provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements on the public shall prevail. Should any
court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or subpart of this
subchapter to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the
ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, other than the provision declared
invalid.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 20014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.071 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the City of Madison
Lake or any employee or agent thereof for any damages that may result from
reliance on this subchapter shall be eliminated or limited as provided by M.S.
§ 466.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.072 FEES.
   Fees for the administration of this subchapter may be established and
amended periodically by resolution of the City of Madison Lake City Council.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CITY. The City of Madison Lake.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE.  Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation exist. A clandestine drug lab site may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer,
or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as they may be amended from time to
time, together with any amendments or modifications thereto. The term shall not
include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors, or
tobacco.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab
operation.
   MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include the
production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical,
physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking,
tableting, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm(s), corporation(s), or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer, or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dump site.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.074 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.075 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, the site, and all personal
property therein, shall be declared a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Law enforcement authorities who identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site which may place neighbors, the
visiting public, or present and future occupants of the site at risk for
exposure to harmful contaminants and other associated conditions are mandated
to take the following action:
      (1)   Promptly notify the City Council, public health authorities and the
appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement Administration of the
U.S. Justice Department of the location of the site, and the owner if known, of
the conditions found;
      (2)   Treat, store, transport, or dispose of all household hazardous
waste found at the site in a manner consistent with Minnesota Department of
Health, Minnesota Pollution Control, and Blue Earth County Health Department
rules and regulations;
      (3)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary declaration of public health
nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the City Council
determines the appropriateness of issuing a permanent declaration of public
health nuisance;
      (4)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration
of public health nuisance has been issued;
      (5)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site, and not return without written
authorization from the City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (6)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property
at the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      (7)   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people
from entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the site
have vacated.
   (C)   The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.076 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer, or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported except to a more secure location. In such circumstances, all other
requirements of this subchapter shall be followed as closely as possible given
the specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.077 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL AND/OR CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Within 48 hours of notification that law
enforcement authorities have determined the existence of a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site, the City Council/Clerk-Treasurer shall determine
the appropriate scope of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance.
Based on the results of the determination, the City Council may then promptly
issue a permanent declaration of public health nuisance and a “Do Not Enter –
Unsafe to Occupy Order” for the affected site to replace the temporary
declaration issued and posted by law enforcement. A copy of the permanent
declaration and order shall be posted on all doorway entrances to the site or,
in the case of bare land, shall be posted in several conspicuous places on the
property.
   (B)   Abatement order. After the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance has been issued and posted, the City Council/Clerk-Treasurer shall
send written notice to the site owner ordering abatement of the public health
nuisance. The abatement order shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and “Do Not
Enter – Unsafe to Occupy Order”;
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
and
      (3)   A summary of the site owner's and occupant's responsibilities under
this subchapter;and information that may help the owner locate appropriate
services necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The City Council/Clerk-Treasurer shall
also mail a copy of the permanent declaration of public health nuisance, a copy
of this subchapter, and a notification of suspension of the site's rental
license, if applicable, to the following concerned parties at their last known
address:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site if the identities of the persons
are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The City of Madison Lake Police Department;
      (4)   Blue Earth County Drug Task Force;
      (5)   The appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement
Administration of the U.S. Justice Department; and
      (6)   Other city, state, and local authorities, such as the City Water
Department, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Minnesota Department of
Health, and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public
and protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The City Council/Clerk-
Treasurer is authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health
nuisance after the City Council/Clerk-Treasurer receives documentation from a
city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm stating that the
suspected health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential
dwelling occupants, either do not exist or have been sufficiently abated or
corrected to justify amendment or removal of the declaration.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.078 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within 10 business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the city with written notification:
         (a)   That the owner has confirmed that all persons and their pets
have vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   That the site will remain vacated and secured until the public
health nuisance is completely abated as required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Contract with 1 or more city-approved environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the most
current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean-up of the site (including but not limited to
the clean up or removal of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures and
contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean-up of the
demolished site;
      (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of all
personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean-up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including but not
limited to testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use of
the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to the
site.
      (3)   Provide the city with the identity of the testing and cleaning firm
with which the owner has contracted for abatement of the public health nuisance
as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the City Council/Clerk-Treasurer
establishing a clean-up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable
deadlines for completing all actions required by this subchapter for abatement
of the public health nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the City
Council/Clerk-Treasurer shall consider practical limitations and the
availability of contractors in approving the schedule for clean-up.
   (B)   The site owner must meet all deadlines established on the clean-up
schedule. Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean-up schedule,
the site owner is required to provide the city with written documentation of
the clean-up process, including a signed statement from a city approved
environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the site, all personal
property therein and all property and soil in proximity to the site, is safe
for human occupancy and use and that the clean-up was conducted in accordance
with the most current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 93.079 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The site owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those of
the city, of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor's fees and the city's costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean-up.
   (B)   The city's costs may also include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Clean-up services;
      (7)   Administrative fees;
      (8)   Legal fees; and
      (9)   Other associated costs.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.080 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   If the building's owner fails to comply with any of the requirements
of this subchapter, the City Council is authorized to take all reasonable
actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance including, but not
limited to, contracting with a city approved environmental hazard testing and
cleaning firm to conduct the work outlined in §
93.078. The City Council/Clerk-Treasurer is also authorized to provide a copy
of the declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage
holders of the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the
site have access to information about the declaration of public health
nuisance.
   (B)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at
the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein. These
actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 463,
as it may be amended from time to time, together with any amendments or
modifications thereto.
   (C)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of the costs for administrative and legal
expense. The city may recover costs by civil action against the owner of the
site or by assessing the costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 463, as it may be amended from time to time, together with any
amendments or modifications thereto.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.081 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this subchapter are intended to limit the site owner's,
residents' or the city's right to recover costs incurred under this subchapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab, and/or from other lawful sources.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.082 SITE OWNERS AND ADDRESS.
   When the site is real property and the owner or the address of the owner of
the site is unknown, the owner and the owner's address is deemed to be that of
the property's taxpayer's name and address as that information is maintained by
the County Auditor's office. When the site is a vehicle, boat, or trailer and
the owner or the address of the owner of the site is unknown, the owner and the
owner's address is deemed to be that of the person on file as the owner on the
current or most recent title to the vehicle, boat, or trailer.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.083 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized city personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance and/or “Do Not
Enter – Unsafe to Occupy Order” from a chemical dump site or a clandestine drug
lab site.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 93.084 ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be inside
the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the city or
as otherwise authorized by this subchapter. To confirm compliance with this
subchapter and to execute their duties under this subchapter, law enforcement
officers, the city, and any persons designated by the city, may enter onto the
site property or enter into the site at any time while a declaration of public
health nuisance is in effect for the site.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 93.085 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the city.
   (B)   Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the
reasonable discretion of the city, and only in cases of hardship after:
      (1)   A city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
      (2)   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing:
         (a)   That the owner is aware of the danger of using the contaminated
property;
         (b)   That the owner will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
         (c)   That the owner releases and agrees to indemnify the city, its
staff, and the Madison Lake City Council from all liability to the owner and/or
third persons for injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused,
by the contaminated property.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 93.086 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the city shall be entitled to seek any other remedy
available at law or in equity in order to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the community, including temporary and permanent injunctions.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-18-2004; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINERS
§ 93.090 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to protect the public's health, safety, welfare
and the quiet and safe enjoyment of their property by adopting reasonable
provisions related to the use of mobile storage containers.
(Ord. 249, passed 10-13-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.091 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter applies to all mobile storage containers within the city.
(Ord. 249, passed 10-13-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.092 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE STORAGE CONTAINER. A temporary or portable storage container that is
transportable and used primarily for temporary storage of building materials,
household goods, personal items and other materials for use on a limited basis.
A mobile storage container shall not be used as a dwelling.
(Ord. 249, passed 10-13-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
§ 93.093 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A mobile storage container may be located as a temporary container on
property within the city.
   (B)   (1)   A mobile storage container is allowed from the time of delivery
to the time of removal for a period not exceeding 3 weeks in duration, except;
      (2)   Mobile storage containers are allowed from the time of delivery to
the time of removal for the duration of a construction project deemed
continuous by the City Building Official. When the project is deemed completed
by the Building Official, the mobile storage container must be removed from the
property within 72 hours.
   (C)   No more than 1 mobile storage container may be located on a specific
piece of property within the city at one time.
   (D)   Such temporary container may not be located on a specific property
more than 1 time in any calendar year.
   (E)   Such temporary container shall be located no closer than 10 feet to
the property line unless on a driveway.
   (F)   In addition, such a container may not be placed in a fire lane, over
an easement or interfere with any roadway or sidewalk.
   (G)   Such container may not exceed 8 feet 6 inches in height, 10 feet in
width or 20 feet in length.
   (H)   It shall be the obligation of the owner or user of such temporary
container to secure the container in a manner that does not endanger the safety
of persons or property in the vicinity of the temporary container.
(Ord. 249, passed 10-13-2008; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see
§
10.99
STRUCTURES IN HAZARDOUS CONDITION
§ 93.100 HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS OR HAZARDOUS PROPERTIES PROHIBITED.
   A HAZARDOUS BUILDING or HAZARDOUS PROPERTY means any building or property,
which because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, physical damage,
unsanitary condition, or abandonment, constitutes a fire hazard or a hazard to
public safety or health. The creation or maintenance of a HAZARDOUS BUILDING or
HAZARDOUS BUILDING in the city shall constitute a nuisance by the person who
owns, controls, or occupies the premises.
(1970 Code, § 550:00) (Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.101 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   M.S. §§ 463.15-463.261, the Hazardous and Substandard Buildings Act, as from
time to time amended, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. The city
shall remove, correct, or abate any hazardous building or hazardous property
within the city limits in accordance with its provisions.
(1970 Code, § 550:05) (Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-1-2014)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Statement of purpose
   
94.02   Authority and power
   
94.03   Applicability
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Insurance
   
94.06   Landscaping
   
94.07   Tree planting, maintenance, and removal
   
94.08   Adjacent landowner responsibility
   
94.09   Tree protection; disease
   
94.10   Trees; public nuisance defined and designated
   
94.11   Enforcement
   
94.12   Violations; claims and appeals
   
94.13   Effective date
 
Shade Tree Program; Stockpiling
   
94.25   Regulations adopted by reference
   
94.26   Stockpiling of elm firewood permitted September through April
   
94.27   Violations
   
94.28   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote and protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within
the City of Madison Lake. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of
Madison Lake, Minnesota, to regulate and control the planting, transplanting,
treatment, removal, maintenance, and protection of trees and shrubs in the city
in order to control diseases, to eliminate and guard against dangerous
conditions which may result in injury to persons using the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, or other public property of the city; to prevent damage to any
public utility, street, sidewalk, or other public property; to protect trees
and shrubs located in public areas from undesirable and unsafe planting,
removal, treatment, and maintenance practices; to guard all trees and shrubs
within the city against the spread of disease or pests. The provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to all trees , shrubs, or plants growing or hereafter
planted in or upon any public right-of-way or other premises which shall
threaten the lives, health, safety, or welfare of the public or of the property
owned or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.02 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   (A)   Generally. There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board
for the City of Madison Lake, which shall consist of 5 members, citizens and
residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation. The
City Maintenance Superintendent and Planning Director shall serve as ex officio
members of the Board. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall provide clerical
assistance. Area foresters shall also serve as advisors.
   (B)   Board officers; regulations; quorum. The Board shall choose its own
officers, make its own rules and regulations, and keep a journal of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
   (C)   Term of office. The term of 5 persons appointed by the Mayor shall be
3 years, except that the term of 2 of the members appointed to the Board shall
be for only 1 year and the term of 2 members of the first Board shall be for 2
years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any members;
his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (D)   Board power and duties. The Board shall have the following power and
duties:
      (1)   Determine and establish the rules and regulations for the conduct
of the Board as the members shall deem advisable; provided, however, that the
rules and regulations shall not be in conflict with this chapter or other city,
state, or federal law;
      (2)   Recommend the adoption and alteration of all rules, regulations,
and ordinances which it shall from time to time deem in the public interest and
most likely to enhance and beautify the urban footrest, and for the purposes of
carrying out this subchapter;
      (3)   Recommend the broad matters of policy regarding the planting,
maintenance, and removal of trees and other vegetation on city property;
      (4)   Recommend policies for the review and approval of capital projects
where trees or other vegetation will be planted or removed on city property;
      (5)   Recommend policies for the review and approval of projects on
private property where open space and/or landscaping is required as a condition
for the development, and recommend policies for the enforcement of approved
plans;
      (6)   Assist the urban forester in encouraging landscaping installation
and maintenance on private property by providing information on the value of
landscaping and on the proper planting and care of trees and other vegetation;
      (7)   Identify landscaping projects that will enhance the urban forest
and advocate incorporating of the projects into the capital planning process;
      (8)   Recommend policies and procedures to identify, mark, publicize, and
preserve historic and notable trees on both public and private property;
      (9)   Assist the urban forester in promoting appreciation of trees and
the urban forest through annual Arbor Day observances and other activities;
      (10)   Review those portions of the city budget allocated for the
planting and care of trees and other vegetation, and advise the City Council on
the appropriateness of the funding levels;
      (11)   Whenever a vacancy occurs in the position of City Forester,
recommend a procedure to select a replacement;
      (12)   Encourage improvement, of the urban forest, through planning and
policy development;
      (13)   Assist city departments in every way possible to enhance the urban
forest in the city; and
      (14)   In all instances, serve as an advocate of the city urban forest.
   (E)   Forester. The city shall seek the advise of foresters available with
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources and Blue Earth County.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants,
and shrubs located within street rights-of-way, parks and public places of the
city; and to trees, plants, and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat as described herein.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREE. Trees shrub, bush, or other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PARKING AND PLANTING STRIP. The area between the curb and sidewalk and the
area between sidewalk and private property line that is city-owned property;
unpaved street side city property; or an area inside the private property line
where an easement is given to the city for the purpose of planting trees.
   PRIVATE TREE. Any and all trees growing on private property within the city
limits.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of property reserved for public use and
accepted for the use by the city to provide circulation and travel to abutting
properties, including, but not limited to streets, alleys, sidewalks,
provisions for public utilities, cut and fill slopes, and open public spaces.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any public, private, or cooperatively owned line, facility
or system for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, power,
electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, television, water, waste or storm water,
which directly or indirectly serves the public or any part thereof within the
corporate limits of the city.
   TOPPING A TREE. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree’s
crown to such a degree so as to remove normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   TREE, LARGE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of over 50 feet.
   TREE, MEDIUM. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 50 feet.
   TREE PARK. A tree, shrub, bush, or other woody vegetation in public parks
having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   TREE, PRIVATE. Any and all trees growing on private property within the city
limits.
   TREE, PUBLIC. All trees growing on any street, park, or any public place
owned or managed by the City of Madison Lake.
   TREE, PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any tree with an infectious disease or insect
problem; dead or dying trees; a tree or limb(s) that obstruct street lights,
traffic signs, the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; a tree that poses a
threat to safety.
   TREE, SMALL. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 30 feet.
   TREE, STREET. A tree, shrub, bush, or other woody vegetation on land lying
between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, boulevards, or
within the city.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.05 INSURANCE.
   Contractors hired by the City of Madison Lake for the planting, pruning,
removal, or other maintenance of trees shall give evidence of possession of
liability insurance in the State of Minnesota statutory minimum amount of
bodily injury as set by M.S. § 466.04 or death; and property damage
indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of the endeavor as herein described.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.06 LANDSCAPING.
   In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial property occurs,
the City Council shall review landscaping plans and may require street trees to
be planted in any of the streets, parking lots, parks, and other public places
abutting lands henceforth developed and or subdivided. The Tree Board shall
review all landscape improvement designs and make recommendations to the
Planning Board.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.07 TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE, AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Generally. Trees, shrubs, and woody vegetation shall not be planted on
public property within the City of Madison Lake without the prior written
permission of the City Tree Board. The Tree Board shall review all requests for
planting to assure that the species are appropriate. The Tree Board shall
submit written reports to the City Council on those matters of special requests
by the Council prior to taking official action.
   (B)   Tree species. The Tree Board shall develop and maintain a list of
desirable trees for planting along street in 3 size classes: small, medium, and
large. A list of trees not suitable for planting will also be created and
enforced by the Tree Board.
   (C)   Spacing. Spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the 3
species size classes listed in this subchapter. Trees may not be planted closer
together than the following:
      (1)   Small trees, 30 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees, 40 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees, 50 feet.
   (D)   Utilities. Only species listed as small trees may be planted under or
within 20 lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within 5
lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line, or
other utility.
   (E)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. Spacing of trees from curbs or curb
lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the 3 species size classes
listed in this subchapter and shall be as follow:
      (1)   Small trees, 2 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees, 3 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees, 4 feet.
   (F)   Distance from corners, fire hydrants, and driveways. No street tree
shall be planted closer than 20 feet to any street corner, measured from the
point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 15 feet to any fire hydrant; nor 5 feet from any driveway.
   (G)   Care of street trees. The City of Madison Lake shall have the right to
plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines
of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be
necessary to ensure the public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry
and beauty of the public grounds. No other planting may be done without consent
of the City Maintenance Superintendent.
   (H)   Removal of trees endangering utilities or other public improvements.
The Tree Board may order or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof which
is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to
sewer, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public
improvement, or affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
Every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall be
pruned so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any street light
or obstruct the view of any street intersection. There shall be a clear space
of at least 8 feet above the street or sidewalk under trees. Dead, diseased, or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which endanger the safety of the
public, shall be removed.
   (I)   Topping. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or city department
to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this subchapter at the determination of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 ADJACENT LANDOWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or
disturb any tree on any street, park, or other public place without first
filing an application and procuring a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer. The
person receiving the permit shall abide by the standards set forth in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Street trees; private property owner responsibilities. Any owner of
private property, abutting city property and planting strips upon which street
trees are located, shall have the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Periodic watering and fertilizations of street trees when necessary
to maintain good health and vigor; and
      (2)   Protection of street trees against damage caused by lawn mowers,
weed trimmers, snowblowers, and similar equipment.
   (C)   Street public trees; private property owner requests. If an owner of
private property abutting city property requests city actions on street trees
or public trees, the requesting owner shall be financially responsible for the
following:
      (1)   Removal of trees, limbs, or roots that interfere with construction
activities;
      (2)   Removal of trees, limbs, or roots for the alteration of tree or
abutting property appearance where no hazard or nuisance exists; and
      (3)   Spraying, fertilizing, or treatment other than may be regularly
conducted on a city-wide basis by the city.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 TREE PROTECTION; DISEASE.
   (A)   Generally. Upon the discovery of any destructive or communicable
disease or other pestilence which endangers the growth or health of trees, or
threatens to spread disease or insect infestation, the City Forester shall at
once cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon
which the diseased or infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require
the condition to be abated within reasonable time to be specified in the
notice.
   (B)   Tree protection; developer. Developers shall provide a tree protection
plan for trees proposed to be retained in a new development specifying
procedures such as not grading or locating utilities within the tree’s drip
line; placing protective barriers around trees, preventing siltations, and the
like, or present a plan to preserve a percent of forested tracts, plant trees
in open space, or pay into a city tree planting fund so that there is no net
loss of tree cover in the city. The City Forester shall use his or her best
judgment in negotiating a workable tree protection plan and have final
authority to enforce it.
   (C)   Tree protection; landmark trees. The City Forester shall locate,
select, and identify any trees which qualify as landmark trees. A tree may
qualify as a landmark tree if it meets 1 or more of the following criteria:
species rarity, old age, historical significance, abnormality, scenic
enhancement, and the like.
   (D)   Tree protection; street and park trees. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, alter, or destroy any street tree or park tree without prior
authorization of the City of Madison Lake.
   (E)   Tree protection; construction activities. Any tree located on city
property in the immediate vicinity of any excavation, demolition, or
construction site of any building, structure, street, or utility work which has
potential for injury, shall be protected from the injury.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.10 TREES; PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED AND DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Generally. The following are declared to be public nuisance under this
subchapter:
      (1)   Any tree or shrub located on private property having a destruction
or communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers the growth, health,
life or well-being of trees, shrubs, or plants in the city or which is capable
of causing an epidemic spread of a communicable disease or insect infestation;
      (2)   The roots of any tree or shrub, located on private property, which
cause the surface of the public street, curb, or sidewalk to be upheaved or
otherwise disturbed; and
      (3)   Any tree, shrub, or portion thereof located on private property
which, by reason of location or condition, constitutes an imminent danger to
the health, safety, or well-being of the general public on city property.
   (B)   Responsibility for repairing tree public nuisance. Where a nuisance
exists upon property, and is the outgrowth of the usual, natural, or necessary
use of property, the landlord thereof, or his or her agent, the tenant or his
or her agent, and all other persons having control of the property on which the
nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof, and shall be
equally liable therefor.
   (C)   Nuisance creation and maintenance. It is unlawful for any person,
either as owner, agent, or occupant, to create or aid in creating or
contributing to or to maintain a public nuisance.
   (D)   Nuisance abatement. The city may serve notice in writing upon the
owner, occupant, or agent of any lot, building, or premises in or upon which a
nuisance may be found, or upon the person who may be the cause of the nuisance,
to require the person to abate the nuisance within a 14-day period. Failure to
give a notice as provided herein shall not relieve the author of any nuisance
from the obligation to abate the nuisance, or from the penalty provided for the
maintenance thereof. Notice of appeal may be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer within 14 days of service of notice. Appeals from the City Forester’s
decision shall be heard by a hearing officer designated by the mayor within 14
days.
   (E)   Expense of abatement responsibility of offender. In the event of
noncompliance with the notice to abate the nuisance, after notice in writing
has been served, and within the time specified in the notice, the city may
abate or cause the nuisance to be abated making the expense of the abatement a
special assessment against the property.
   (F)   Abuse or mutilation of public trees. It is unlawful for any person to
damage, transplant, top, remove, or mutilate any tree on public property.
   (G)   Private trees. The City Forester or official designee has the
authority to enter on to private property whereon there is located a tree,
shrub, plant, or plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
   (H)   Notice to abate nuisance. All orders to trim, remove, or treat trees,
shrubs, or plants given pursuant to this subchapter shall be in writing and
shall be served in person or by first-class mail upon the owner of the property
where the trees, shrubs, or plants are located. The orders shall give the owner
of the property not less than 14 days from the date of mailing of the notice to
comply with the order. It shall be unlawful for any owner of property receiving
such an order to fail to comply with the order in the time specified. The City
Forester may approve removal of public trees and, as a condition, the permitees
may be required to compensate the city for the value of the tree(s) removed
either by replacement thereof or by monetary assessment.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council shall have the power to promulgate and enforce rules,
regulations, and specifications concerning the trimming, spraying, removal,
planting, pruning, and protection of trees, shrubs, vines, hedges, and other
plants upon the right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place in the city. The City Tree Board and Planning Commission shall make
recommendation to the City Council with regard to forestry practices and
enforcement.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
§ 94.12 VIOLATIONS; CLAIMS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The cost of replacement or repair of trees and shrubs shall be borne
by the party in violation and shall be determined in accordance with the latest
revision of the International Society of Arboriculture/Council of Landscape
Appraisers system.
   (B)   The City Forester is authorized to cause abatement of a nuisance that
has not been abated by the date specified in the notice. The reasonable cost of
the abatement shall be made a special assessment against the property on which
the nuisance was located: in addition, the owner of the property upon which the
nuisance was located shall be subject to prosecution.
   (C)   Any person who may be aggrieved by any ruling or order of the City
Forester or Tree Board, may appeal to the City Council. The City Council shall
hear the matter and make a final decision. The City Council shall have the
right to review the conduct and decisions of the Tree Board.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication in summary form.
(Ord. 176, passed 7-19-1993)
SHADE TREE PROGRAM; STOCKPILING
§ 94.25 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Chapter 1501, §§ 1501.0520 et seq. of the Minnesota Code of Agency Rules,
Department of Agriculture, Shade Tree Program (1978 Edition), together with
amendments thereof to date, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this subchapter as if set out in full, except as hereinafter provided. A copy
of the agency rules herewith incorporated is on file in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 88, passed 11- -1979)
§ 94.26 STOCKPILING OF ELM FIREWOOD PERMITTED SEPTEMBER THROUGH APRIL.
   The stockpiling of bark bearing elm wood within the city limits of the City
of Madison Lake shall be permitted during the period from September 15 through
April 1 of any given year. Any such wood not utilized by April 1 of any year
must then be removed and disposed of as provided by this subchapter and the
regulations incorporated thereby.
(Ord. 88, passed 11- -1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this subchapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 88, passed 11- -1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon its due passage and enactment
and publication according to law.
(Ord. 88, passed 11- -1979)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Minnesota Uniform Fire Code
   
95.01   Adoption
   
95.02   Enforcement
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Limits
   
95.05   Appeals
   
95.06   New materials, processes, or occupancies which may require permits
   
95.07   Violations
   
95.08   Effective date
MINNESOTA UNIFORM FIRE CODE
§ 95.01 ADOPTION.
   The Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, 1 copy of which has been marked as the
official copy and which is on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer,
is hereby adopted as the fire code for the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion. Every provision contained in this code is hereby adopted and made a
part of this subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The Chief of
the Fire Department may recommend the employment of technical inspectors, who,
when the authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to
determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to
members and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after
examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. As used in the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, it shall be
held to mean the Attorney for the City of Madison Lake.
   JURISDICTION. As used in the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, it shall be held
to mean the City of Madison Lake.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.04 LIMITS.
   (A)   The establishment of limits of districts in which storage of flammable
or combustible liquids in outside above-ground tanks is to be prohibited. The
limits are detailed in Chapter 7510, Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, as it may be
amended from time to time. The limits in which new bulk plants for flammable or
combustible liquids are prohibited are set forth in § 7510.3650 of the
Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The establishment of limits in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gases is to be restricted. The limits referred to in the Minnesota
Uniform Fire Code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is
restricted, are the heavily populated and the congested commercial areas.
   (C)   The establishment of limits of districts in which storage of
explosives and blasting agents is to be prohibited. The limits referred to in
the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code in which storage of explosives and blasting
agents is prohibited are in the principal business district, closely-built
commercial areas, and heavily populated areas.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.05 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the Code do no
apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision of the Chief to the
City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.06 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The Building Inspector, Assistant Fire Chief, and the Chief shall act as a
committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes, or occupancies, which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the Code. The
Chief shall post the list in a conspicuous place in his or her office, and
distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
§ 95.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Code hereby
adopted or fail to comply with, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any
order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement or specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
filed herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and
noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of 1
penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue; and all the persons shall be required to correct or remedy the
violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise
specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter becomes effective from and after its passage and
publication.
(Ord. 79, passed 5-1-1978)
CHAPTER 96: PARADES
Section
   
96.01   Definition
   
96.02   Permit required
   
96.03   Application
   
96.04   Procedure and granting
   
96.05   Denial and appeal
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parades in parks, see § 92.12
§ 96.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any movement or procession consisting of animals, persons or
vehicles, or combination thereof, except a funeral procession, upon any public
alley, sidewalk or street, which moves as a body and impedes or affects the
unobstructed flow of traffic or does not comply with any traffic control or
regulation.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 96.02 PERMIT REQUIRED. 
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any parade upon
any public alley, sidewalk or street unless and until a permit to conduct such
parade has been obtained from the city.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 96.03 APPLICATION. 
   An application for a parade permit shall be made, at least 30 days prior to
the date of the proposed parade, to the City Administrator, and shall be
accompanied by an application fee in an amount established by resolution of the
City Council. The application shall set forth the name of the parade sponsor,
the parade route, the estimated time of commencement and termination, and a
description of the participating units, and shall be executed by the applicant
or an agent or representative thereof.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 96.04 PROCEDURE AND GRANTING. 
   The City Administrator shall refer any such application to the Police Chief
for investigation. If, upon completion of such investigation, the Police Chief
finds that the proposed parade will not cause a hazard to persons or property,
that the proposed parade will not cause unreasonable inconvenience to the
public, and that adequate arrangements for direction and control of traffic
have been made, the Police Chief shall endorse acceptance upon the application
and return the application to the City Administrator who shall then issue the
parade permit. If the Police Chief finds that the proposed parade will cause a
hazard to persons or property, that the proposed parade will cause unreasonable
inconvenience to the public, or that adequate arrangements for direction and
control of traffic have not been made, the Police Chief shall enter upon the
application any such finding and shall return the application to the City
Administrator who shall not issue the parade permit unless and until the
objections of the Police Chief are removed by the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 96.05 DENIAL AND APPEAL.  
   If the City Administrator denies the parade permit application, the
applicant can appeal the denial to the City Council. The appeal must be filed
no later than 5 business days following the receipt of the denial of the permit
by the City Administrator. The City Council shall meet to consider the denial
within 30 business days of the filing of the appeal and shall render its
decision within 3 business days of its meeting. The decision of the City
Council shall be final and binding upon the city and applicant. The City
Council shall make a reasonable effort to render a decision prior to the
scheduled time of the parade.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
§ 96.99 PENALTY. 
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. See §
10.99.
(Ord. 2013-004, passed 3-18-2013)
CHAPTER 97: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
97.01   Designated predatory offender residency restrictions
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Prohibited acts
   
97.04   Exceptions
   
97.05   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to designated
predatory offenders in the exclusion zones
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Madison Lake City Council intends to serve the city's
compelling interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety, and
welfare of Madison Lake citizens under this chapter. It is the express intent
of the City Council to further that interest by: creating areas around
locations where children regularly congregate in concentrated numbers within
which certain predatory offenders are prohibited from establishing temporary or
permanent residence; and, by mitigating the concentration of certain predatory
offenders, as recommended by M.S. § 244.052, Subd. 4a, by prohibiting certain
predatory offenders from establishing temporary or permanent residence within
close proximity to one another.
   (B)   Findings. The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders
present a real threat to the public safety and especially to that of children.
Certain predatory offenders are likely to use physical violence and present a
high risk to repeat their offenses, and most such predatory offenders have
committed many more offenses and have many more victims than are ever reported
and prosecuted. This makes dealing with the danger posed to the public safety
and especially that of children by those certain predatory offenders extremely
important.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions will apply unless the
context or intent clearly requires a different meaning:
   (A)   Designated predatory offender. Any person who is required to register
as a predatory offender under M.S. § 243.166, as may be amended from time to
time, and who has been categorized as a Level III predatory offender under M.S.
§ 244.052, Subd. 3, a successor statute, or a similar statute from another
state.
   (B)   Permanent residence. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days.
   (C)   Temporary residence. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and
which is not the person's permanent address or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of 4 or more consecutive or
non-consecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   (D)   School. A public or nonpublic preschool, elementary or secondary
school.
   (E)   Licensed child care facility. A child care facility currently licensed
by the Blue Earth County, Minnesota, Public Health and Human Services
Department and/or the State of Minnesota.
   (F)   Public park/playground. Means any city-owned, county-owned, state-
owned or privately owned but open to the public area, designed, equipped, and
set aside for children's play and includes in that area such facilities as play
equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs, internal pathways, internal land forms,
vegetation and related structures.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
§ 97.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
predatory offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence
within 2,000 feet of any of the following:
      (1)   Public or private school;
      (2)   Licensed child care facility;
      (3)   Public park/playground;
      (4)   Place of worship which provides regular educational programs;
      (5)   Designated public school bus stop;
      (6)   Designated public trails;
      (7)   Public or private gymnasiums;
      (8)   Libraries;
      (9)   Public beaches;
      (10)   Sporting facilities (i.e. baseball fields, football fields, hockey
rinks, soccer fields, etc.) where children are known to congregate; and
      (11)   The permanent or temporary residence of any other designated
predatory offender.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to the nearest outer property line of the properties listed in
division (A).
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
§ 97.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This section does not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   Measurement of distance designated predatory offender established the
permanent residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the
residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167, or a successor statute,
prior to May 13, 2015;
   (B)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when he/she committed
the offense and was not convicted as an adult;
   (C)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
   (D)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk level
reduction by the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. §
244.052, Subd. 3(i).
   (E)   The school, licensed child care facility or public playground within
2,000 feet of the person's permanent residence was opened after the designated
predatory offender established the permanent residence or temporary residence
and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and
243.167, or a successor statute;
   (F)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offender's parents, grandparents, siblings or spouse, and was their
residence prior to May 13, 2015; and
   (G)   The residence is a property purchased, leased, or contracted with and
licensed by the Minnesota Department of Corrections prior to May 13, 2015.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
§ 97.05 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO DESIGNATED
PREDATORY OFFENDERS IN THE EXCLUSION ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent or lease real
estate to any designated predatory offender if the property is in the
prohibited zone established in §
97.03(A). If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after a rental agreement is signed, a property owner shall
commence eviction proceedings against the designated offender and take action
to ensure that the designated offender is not residing in the exclusion zone.
   (B)   A property owners violation of this prohibition shall be punishable as
set forth in §
97.99.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be punished according to the laws
of the State of Minnesota. A violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day a person maintains a temporary or permanent residence in
violation of this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-6-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   CANNABINOID AND HEMP- DERIVED PRODUCTS
      
112.   ADULT USE LICENSING
      
113.   CHARITABLE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES
      
114.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
115.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
116.   UNIFORM HOUSING CODE FOR RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY, HAZARDOUS
STRUCTURE AND HOUSING MAINTENANCE
      
117.   VACATION RENTAL BY OWNER
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
 
Licensing
   
110.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
110.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
110.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
110.23   License fees; pro rata
   
110.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
110.25   Application for license
   
110.26   Description of premises
   
110.27   Applications for renewal
   
110.28   Transfer of license
   
110.29   Investigation
   
110.30   Hearing and issuance
   
110.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
110.32   Conditions of license
   
110.33   Hours and days of sale
   
110.34   Minors on premises
   
110.35   Suspension and revocation
   
110.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this chapter is adopted.
§ 110.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
INTOXICATING or 3.2% MALT, includes both INTOXICATING LIQUOR and 3.2% MALT
LIQUOR.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or LARGE
ESTABLISHMENT as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be amended from
time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat
treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and
served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of this chapter
unless it meets the definitions of SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or
LARGE ESTABLISHMENT.
§ 110.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
110.99(B).
Penalty, see §
110.99
LICENSING
§ 110.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 110.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 110.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
110.20.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
110.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
110.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
110.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
110.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years. No license shall be for
longer than 4 consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12-days’
worth of temporary licenses to any 1 organization in 1 calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at 1 time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of
restaurant in §
110.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
110.23 shall not exceed 1/2 of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
110.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 110.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 110.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 110.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 110.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 110.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 110.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 110.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.35 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
110.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1-day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within 10 days. Any
suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this chapter
have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
110.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term violation as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year
period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 111: CANNABINOID AND HEMP-DERIVED PRODUCTS
Section
   
111.01   State law adopted
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Restrictions on business and signs
   
111.06   License fees
   
111.07   Local registration required
   
111.08   Caps on licenses
   
111.09   Compliance checks
   
111.10   Registration suspension and cancellation; notice to Office of Cannabis
Management
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Use of tetrahydrocannabinol products in public places, see §
130.08
§ 111.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   M.S. Ch. 342 shall be, and is hereby, incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all of the definitions contained in M.S. §
342.01 are incorporated by reference herein. The following terms shall have the
meanings given them, unless inconsistent with M.S. § 342.01, in which case,
those definitions in M.S. § 342.01, as they are amended from time to time,
shall control.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. Cannabis concentrate that is approved for
sale by the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the
office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE does not include any artificially
derived cannabinoid.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office. ADULT-
USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts,
or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   ADVERTISEMENT. Any written or oral statement, illustration, or depiction
that is intended to promote sales of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or sales at a specific
cannabis business or hemp business and includes any newspaper, radio, Internet
and electronic media, or television promotion; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; and the display of window and interior signs in a cannabis business.
ADVERTISEMENT does not include a fixed outdoor sign that meets the requirements
in M.S. § 342.64, Subdivision 2(b).
   ARTIFICIALLY DERIVED CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid extracted from a cannabis
plant, cannabis flower, hemp plant, or hemp plant parts with a chemical makeup
that is changed after extraction to create a different cannabinoid or other
chemical compound by applying a catalyst other than heat or light. ARTIFICIALLY
DERIVED CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any tetrahydrocannabinol
created from cannabidiol but does not include cannabis concentrate, cannabis
products, hemp concentrate, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products.
   CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or cannabis
plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active, and act on the
cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
   CANNABINOID EXTRACTION. The process of extracting cannabis concentrate from
cannabis plants or cannabis flower using heat, pressure, water, lipids, gases,
solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes, but does not include the
process of extracting concentrate from hemp plants or hemp plant parts or the
process of creating any artificially derived cannabinoid.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product, a hemp-derived consumer product, or
a lower-potency hemp edible.
   CANNABINOID PROFILE. The amounts of each cannabinoid that the office
requires to be identified in testing and labeling, including but not limited to
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, cannabidiol, and
cannabidiolic acid in cannabis flower, a cannabis product, a batch of
artificially derived cannabinoid, a lower-potency hemp edible, a hemp-derived
consumer product, or a hemp-derived topical product expressed as percentages
measured by weight and, in the case of cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products, expressed as milligrams in each
serving and package.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (12)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (13)   Medical cannabis retailer; and
      (14)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. 
      (1)   Means:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower
that are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
cannabis plant or cannabis flower and is intended to be consumed by combustion
or vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol, or vapor from
the product.
      (2)   Does not include hemp concentrate, artificially derived
cannabinoid, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS INDUSTRY. Every item, product, person, process, action, business,
or other thing related to cannabis flower and cannabis products and subject to
regulation under this chapter.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
that are knowingly or intentionally used primarily in:
      (1)   Manufacturing cannabis products;
      (2)   Ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis flower or
cannabis products into the human body; and
      (3)   Testing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT.
      (1)   Means any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      (2)   Includes adult-use cannabis products, including but not limited to
edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products. CANNABIS PRODUCT
does not include cannabis flower, artificially derived cannabinoid, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or hemp-derived topical
products.
   CANNABIS SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
reasonably expected to grow into a cannabis plant. CANNABIS SEED does not
include hemp seed.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp
plants, or hemp plant parts.
    EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans; contains a cannabinoid other than an
artificially derived cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients; is not a
drug; and is a type of product approved for sale by the office, or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods. EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include lower-potency hemp edibles.
   HEMP BUSINESS. 
      (1)   Either of the following licensed under this chapter:
         (a)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer; or
         (b)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
      (2)   Does not include a person or entity licensed under Ch. 18K to grow
industrial hemp for commercial or research purposes or to process industrial
hemp for commercial purposes.
   HEMP CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Means:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts that
are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
hemp plant or hemp plant parts and is intended to be consumed by combustion or
vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol, or vapor from the
product.
      (2)   Does not include artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-potency
hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or hemp-derived topical products.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with
other ingredients.
      (2)   Does not include artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-potency
hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp fiber products, or hemp
grain.
   HEMP-DERIVED TOPICAL PRODUCT. A product intended for human or animal
consumption that contains hemp concentrate, is intended for application
externally to a part of the body of a human or animal, and does not contain
cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP FIBER PRODUCT. An intermediate or finished product made from the fiber
of hemp plant parts that is not intended for human or animal consumption. HEMP
FIBER PRODUCT includes but is not limited to cordage, paper, fuel, textiles,
bedding, insulation, construction materials, compost materials, and industrial
materials.
   HEMP PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing or
has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
no more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis.
   HEMP PLANT PARTS. Any part of the harvested hemp plant, including the
flower, bud, leaves, stems, and stalk, but does not include derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers that are
separated from the plant. HEMP PLANT PARTS does not include hemp fiber
products, hemp grain, or hemp seed.
   HEMP SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
intended to be planted and is reasonably expected to grow into a hemp plant.
HEMP SEED does not include cannabis seed or hemp grain.
   INTOXICATING CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid, including an artificially derived
cannabinoid, that when introduced into the human body impairs the central
nervous system or impairs the human audio, visual, or mental processes.
INTOXICATING CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any
tetrahydrocannabinol.
   LICENSE HOLDER. A person, cooperative, or business that holds any of the
following licenses:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;   
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer;
      (12)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer;
      (13)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (14)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (15)   Medical cannabis retailer; or
      (16)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. The City of Madison Lake.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid,
in combination with
food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than 5 milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids
per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product that:
         (a)   Consists of or contains cannabis concentrate or hemp concentrate
or is infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to artificially
derived cannabinoids; and
         (b)   Is provided to a patient enrolled in the registry program; a
registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal guardian, or spouse of an
enrolled patient, by a cannabis retailer or medical cannabis retailer to treat
or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical condition.
      (2)   Must be in the form of:
         (a)   Liquid, including but not limited to oil;
         (b)   Pill;
         (c)   Liquid or oil for use with a vaporized delivery method;
         (d)   Water-soluble cannabinoid multiparticulate, including granules,
powder, and sprinkles;
         (e)   Orally dissolvable product, including lozenges, gum, mints,
buccal tablets, and sublingual tablets;
         (f)   Edible products in the form of gummies and chews;
         (g)   Topical formulation; or
         (h)   Any allowable form or delivery method approved by the office.
      (3)   Does not include adult-use cannabis products or hemp-derived
consumer products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter to engage
in 1 or more of the following:
      (1)   The cultivation of cannabis plants for medical cannabis flower;
      (2)   The manufacture of medical cannabinoid products; and
      (3)   The retail sale of medical cannabis flower and medical cannabinoid
products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower provided to a patient enrolled in
the registry program; a registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal
guardian, or spouse of an enrolled patient by a cannabis retailer or medical
cannabis business to treat or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical
condition. MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER does not include adult-use cannabis flower.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. A delivery device, related supply, or
educational material used by a patient enrolled in the registry program to
administer medical cannabis and medical cannabinoid products.
   OFFICE. The Office of Cannabis Management.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISEMENT. An advertisement that is located outdoors or can be
seen or heard by an individual who is outdoors and includes billboards;
advertisements on benches; advertisements at transit stations or transit
shelters; advertisements on the exterior or interior of buses, taxis, light
rail transit, or business vehicles; and print signs that do not meet the
requirements in M.S. § 342.64, Subdivision 2(b), but that are placed or located
on the exterior property of a cannabis business.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. A substance with a similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity to a cannabinoid but is not extracted or derived from
cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp plants, or hemp plant parts and is
instead created or produced by chemical or biochemical synthesis.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No retail sale, manufacture for retail sale, or cultivation for retail sale,
of a cannabinoid product, hemp product, or low-potency hemp product shall occur
unless the seller, person, cooperative, or business first holds, and has at the
time of said sale the applicable licenses required by law from the Office of
Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Form. Every application for a license to engage in retail sale, manufacture
for retail sale, or cultivation for retail sale of any cannabinoid products,
hemp products, or low-potency hemp products, must be made to the Office of
Cannabis Management on forms supplied by that office.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.05 RESTRICTIONS ON BUSINESS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Cannabis businesses, and any related outdoor advertisement, shall not
operate or be placed within 1,000 feet of any school, nor shall they operate or
be placed within 500 feet of any duly licensed daycare, residential treatment
facility, or an attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors including a playground or athletic field. Distances set forth herein
shall be a parallel line from the closest two points property lines. These
radial restrictions shall not apply to the Sakatah Singing Hills Trail.
   (B)   Cannabis business shall not engage in the retail sale of adult-use
cannabis products after 8:00 p.m. or before 10:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
Low-potency edibles may only be sold at retail as an accessory to retail sales,
consistent with the provisions of the city’s zoning code, during the retailer's
normal operating hours, but in no event shall any accessory low-potency retail
sales occur after 1:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
   (C)   Cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail businesses, and low-potency
hemp retail businesses facilities shall meet or exceed the standards set forth
in the Minnesota State Building Code, State Fire Code, and the city's code of
ordinances.
   (D)   License holders shall operate in full compliance with the city's
zoning controls including obtaining any applicable conditional use permits
prior to operation.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE FEES.
   Fees for registration of cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail
businesses, and low-potency hemp retail businesses shall be set according to
the city's fee schedule as it is amended from time to time. All fees shall be
paid into the city's general fund. License fees are non-refundable in the event
that a license applicant is rejected.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.07 LOCAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before making retail sales to customers or patients, a cannabis
microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer, medical cannabis
combination business, or lower-potency hemp edible retailer must first register
with the city, town, or county in which the retail establishment is located.
   (B)   Fee.
      (1)   The city shall impose a fee for an initial retail registration fee
of $500 or up to half the amount of the applicable initial license fee under
section M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less. The initial registration is good for
the year in which the registration is permitted.
      (2)   Registration shall be on an annual basis and shall be good until
December 31 of the year in which it was issued. Thereafter an annual renewal
registration is required. The city shall also impose a renewal retail
registration fee of $1,000 or up to half the amount of the applicable renewal
license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less. The initial registration
fee shall include the fee for initial registration and the first annual
renewal. Any renewal fee imposed by the local unit of government shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent annual renewal
thereafter. Registration fees are non-refundable.
   (C)   (1)   A local unit of government shall issue a retail registration to
a cannabis microbusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis
mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis retailer, medical
cannabis combination business operating a retail location, or lower-potency
hemp edible retailer that:
         (a)   Has a valid license or license preapproval issued by the Office
of Cannabis Management;
         (b)   Has paid the registration fee or renewal fee pursuant to
division (B) of this section;
         (c)   Is found to be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter at any preliminary compliance check that the local unit of government
performs; and
         (d)   If applicable, is current on all property taxes and assessments
at the location where the retail establishment is located.
      (2)   Before issuing a retail registration, the local unit of government
may conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure that the cannabis business
or hemp business is in compliance with any applicable local ordinance including
zoning ordinances.
      (3)   A local unit of government shall renew the retail registration of a
cannabis business or hemp business when the office renews the license of the
cannabis business or hemp business.
      (4)   A retail registration issued under this section may not be
transferred.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 CAPS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than 1 license/registration issued for an
adult-use cannabis business.
   (B)   There shall be no more than 6 licenses/registration issued solely for
low-potency hemp edible businesses.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.09 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The city's Police Department shall conduct compliance checks of every
cannabis business, hemp business, and low-potency hemp edible business with a
retail registration issued by the city. During a compliance check, the Police
Department shall assess a business' compliance with age verification
requirements, and compliance with any applicable local ordinances established
pursuant to M.S. § 342.13 including zoning ordinances.
   (B)   The Police Department must conduct unannounced age verification
compliance checks of every cannabis business, hemp business, and low-potency
hemp edible business at least once each calendar year. Age verification
compliance checks must involve persons at least 17 years of age but under the
age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or guardian if the
person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use cannabis flower,
adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products under the direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or
an employee of the local unit of government.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION; NOTICE TO OFFICE OF CANNABIS
MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   If the city determines that a cannabis business, hemp business, or
low-potency hemp edible business with a retail registration issued by the local
unit of government is not operating in compliance with the requirements of a
local ordinance authorized under M.S. § 342.13 or that the operation of the
business poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, the
City Council may suspend the retail registration of the cannabis business, hemp
business, or low-potency edible business. The City Administrator must
immediately notify the Office of Cannabis Management with the suspension and
shall include a description of the grounds for the suspension.
   (B)   The Office of Cannabis Management may review the retail registration
suspension and that office may order reinstatement of the retail registration
or take any action described in M.S. § 342.19 or § 342.21.
   (C)   The retail registration suspension shall be for up to 30 days unless
the Office of Cannabis Management suspends the license and operating privilege
of the cannabis business or hemp business for a longer period or revokes the
license. Upon revocation by that office, the registration shall be revoked.
   (D)   The City Council may reinstate the retail registration if the City
Council determines that any violation has been cured. The City Council must
reinstate the retail registration if the Office of Cannabis Management orders
reinstatement.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No cannabis microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer,
medical cannabis combination business, or lower-potency hemp edible retailer
may make any sale to a customer or patient without a valid retail registration
with the city and a valid license with any applicable endorsement from the
Office of Cannabis Management. A local unit of government may impose a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation of this chapter, in addition to any
additional penalties, civil or criminal, that they may impose.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor offense
punishable by incarceration of up to 90 days, a fine of up to $1,000, or both.
Said penalty shall be in addition to any civil penalty the city may impose.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-2-2024)
   
CHAPTER 112: ADULT USE LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Findings
 
Business License
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   License fees
   
112.17   Term and expiration of license
   
112.18   Application for license
   
112.19   Managerial responsibility
   
112.20   Investigation
   
112.21   Council approval of license
   
112.22   Applications for renewal
   
112.23   Transfer of license
   
112.24   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.25   Conditions of business license
   
112.26   Conditions on physical design
   
112.27   Conditions on live entertainment
   
112.28   Suspension and revocation
   
112.29   Violations
 
Manager License
   
112.40   License required
   
112.41   License fees
   
112.42   Term and expiration of license
   
112.43   Application for license
   
112.44   Investigation
   
112.45   Council approval of license
   
112.46   Application for renewal
   
112.47   Transfer of license
   
112.48   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.49   General conditions
   
112.50   Suspension and revocation
   
112.51   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Adult Use
Licensing Ordinance except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as
this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of adult media if the building or portion
of a building is not open to the public generally but only to 1 or more classes
of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or
significant portion of the items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT MEDIA. Includes printed matter, magazines, newspapers, books,
pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture film, compact
discs, digital video discs, floppy discs, and other communicative materials
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with
a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture machines, projectors
or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer
persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material is the building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age
or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designated
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE - PRIMARY. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult mini-motion
picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult motion picture theater,
adult novelty business, or any other use, business, or establishment meeting
any of the following:
      (1)   Advertising, or otherwise holding itself out, in any forum as
featuring “adult,” “hardcore,” “XXX,” “sex,” or otherwise as an adult use,
despite having 10% or less of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or
20% or less of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or sales for
the customer’s private use off-premises;
      (2)   Having more than 10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated
to, or more than 20% of its gross receipts derived from adult media rentals or
sales;
      (3)   Providing any form of on-premises entertainment with an emphasis on
the presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and/or
      (4)   An adult use not meeting the definition of adult use-incidental or
adult use-nonprotected in the Adult Use Zoning Ordinance.
   ADULT USES. Include premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses, or
places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen
by members of the public. Licensed or accredited veterinary, medical, or
educational establishments shall not be considered adult uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states, or other
countries.
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than 5 years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or offense with
a maximum penalty of 1 year or less imprisonment; or
         (b)   Less than 10 years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense, or offense with a
maximum penalty of greater than 1 year imprisonment.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
clothed or unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty,
pygmalionism, urolagia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The showing of the human male or female genitalia, pubic hair,
perineum anal region, or natal cleft with less than a fully opaque covering;
      (2)   The showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple and/or areola;
      (3)   The exposure of any device, costume, or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum,
anal region, or pubic hair region; or
      (4)   The exposure of any device worn as a cover over the nipples and/or
areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives the realistic
appearance of nipples and/or areola.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.03 FINDINGS.
   (A)   In City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 US 41 (1986), the
United States Supreme Court found that a city may rely on the experiences of
other cities to determine whether certain businesses have adverse secondary
effects;
   (B)   The Madison Lake City Council has conducted a study of adult uses over
the past several months;
   (C)   The City Council has read and considered reports from numerous
municipalities, specifically Adams County, Colorado (1988 and 1991), Austin,
Texas (1986), El Paso, Texas (1986), Garden Grove, California (1991),
Indianapolis, Indiana (1984), Newport News, Virginia (1996), St. Paul,
Minnesota (1987 and 1988), and Whittier, California (1978), have completed
studies which have determined that adult uses have adverse secondary effects,
generally, as follows:
      (1)   Increased criminal activity, including public intoxication and
prostitution;
      (2)   Detriment to public health, safety, and welfare, including an
increased risk of sexually transmitted diseases; and
      (3)   Finally, areas surrounding adult uses suffer decreased property
values, increased vandalism, and neighborhood blight and disinvestment.
   (D)   The City Council has read additional reports, including Ellicottville,
New York (1998), Manatee County, Florida (1987), Minnesota Attorney General’s
Working Group (1989), New Hanover County (1989), and St. Croix County,
Wisconsin (1993), which have reviewed the experiences of other municipalities
and detrimental impacts of adult uses;
   (E)   The City Council has reviewed ordinances and findings containing
specific complaints and evidence of an increase in public urination,
trespassing, vandalism, public alcohol consumption, littering, noise
complaints, verbal harassment, fighting, potentially risky sexual activity, and
parking congestion correlating specifically with an adult cabaret located in
Nicollet, Minnesota, a city of similar size and location to Madison Lake.
   (F)   The City Council has determined that these studies and local anecdotal
evidence are of direct relevance to the potential for the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses on the City of Madison Lake;
   (G)   M.S. § 412.221, Subdivision 25, as it may be amended from time to
time, states, “The council shall have power by ordinance to prevent or license
and regulate the exhibition of circuses, theatrical performances, amusements,
or shows of any kind.”;
   (H)   M.S. § 412.221, Subdivision 27, as it may be amended from time to
time, states, “The council shall have power by ordinance to license and
regulate the operation of public dance halls and the conduct of public
dances.”;
   (I)   M.S. § 412.221, Subdivision 28, as it may be amended from time to
time, states, “The council shall have power by ordinance to regulate the
construction of buildings.”;
   (J)   M.S. § 412.221, Subdivision 32, as it may be amended from time to
time, states, “The council shall have power to provide for the government and
good order of the city, the suppression of vice and immorality, the prevention
of crime, the protection of public and private property, the benefit of
residence, trade, and commerce, and the promotion of health, safety, order,
convenience, and the general welfare by the ordinances not inconsistent with
the constitution and laws of the United States or of this state as it shall
deem expedient.”;
   (K)   On 10-7-2002, the Madison Lake City Council enacted the Adult Use
Zoning Ordinance, whereby it established zoning regulations for adult uses;
   (L)   The City Council has determined that business regulations, including
licensing, can be coordinated with zoning regulations to afford better
protection of the public health, safety, and welfare;
   (M)   The City of Madison Lake relies on the Madison Lake City Police
Department and LeSueur County Sheriff’s Department for law enforcement; and
   (N)   The City Council believes that licensing of adult uses-primary to
ensure the responsibility of their management would aid law enforcement.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to own or operate an adult use
(s)-primary at any premises without a valid adult use-primary business license
issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to this chapter. The applicant or
licensee has an affirmative duty to supplement an application with new
information received subsequent to the date the application was completed or
license was issued.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an adult use-primary business license is $1,000. The City
Council may amend from time to time by ordinance or resolution the license fee.
The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs
directly related to the enforcement of this chapter; no license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licenses at least 45 days before the hearing.
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.17 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each business license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year from
the date of issuance by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.18 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. The form shall be verified and filed with
the city. No person shall make a false statement in an application. The
following information shall be provided on the application form:
      (1)   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant(s);
      (2)   The applicant’s state or federally issued tax identification
number;
      (3)   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided;
      (4)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use-primary under a
name other than that of the applicant; he or she must state the adult use-
primary’s fictitious name and submit any required registration documents;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting trial on
pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the adult use for
which the business license was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant is or
has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under an adult use
ordinance whose business license has previously been denied, suspended, or
revoked, including the name and location of the adult use for which the
business license was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (7)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county and, if so,
the names and locations of the other licensed businesses;
      (8)   The telephone number of the establishment;
      (9)   The address, and legal description of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be located;
      (10)   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and
the date on which the establishment began operations as an adult use-primary at
the location for which the business license is sought;
      (11)   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup
date (which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of
the business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than 10 days
following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair, or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner’s time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same.
   (B)   Each application for a business license shall be accompanied by the
following:
      (1)   Payment of the application fee in full;
      (2)   If the establishment is a corporation formed under the laws of the
State of Minnesota, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together
with all amendments thereto;
      (3)   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      (4)   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the State of Minnesota, a certified copy of the certificate of limited
partnership, together with all amendments thereto;
      (5)   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (6)   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      (7)   If the person(s) identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land in division (B)(6) above is not also the owner of the establishment, then
the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract
or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owner or
proposed owner of the establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of
the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the establishment for the
purpose of the operation of the establishment;
      (8)   A current straight-line drawing or blueprint prepared within 30
days depicting the interior of the premises, clearly indicating the specific
locations of manager’s station(s), public areas and non-public areas; and
      (9)   Any of divisions (B)(2) through (B)(3) above, shall not be required
for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished the City Clerk-Treasurer with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   (C)   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face. Any fees for the photograph(s) shall be paid by the applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
5 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant, in this or any other city, county, state, or
country, has ever had any similar adult use license, permit, or authorization
denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought and/or issued,
the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the
reason(s) for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application;
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is
awaiting trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so,
the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of
each.
   (D)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
      (2)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter, the Adult Use Zoning Ordinance, and the Madison Lake City Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.19 MANAGERIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Prior to the issuance of an adult use-primary business license, the
applicant shall demonstrate proof of managerial responsibility. Proof of
managerial responsibility shall consist of 1 or more licensed manager(s) with a
valid adult use-primary manager license, or complete application for the
license(s). Proof of managerial responsibility is a continuing condition of the
business license.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.20 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background investigation. On an initial application for a
license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in the sound
discretion of the City Council that it is in the public interest to do so, on
an application for renewal of a license, the city shall cause to be conducted a
preliminary background investigation. The applicant shall pay with the
application an investigation fee of $100 which shall be in addition to any
license fee.
   (B)   Comprehensive background investigation. If the results of a
preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the City Council,
a comprehensive background investigation, the city may cause to be conducted a
comprehensive background investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background investigation to be paid by the applicant is $500,
less any amount paid for the initial investigation, if the investigation is to
be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.21 COUNCIL APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   The City Council in its sound discretion, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, may either grant or deny the application for any license or for the
transfer or renewal of any license. The City Council shall complete any
investigation and make its decision within 45 days of the city’s receipt of a
completed application. No applicant has a right to a license under this
chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.22 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   Applications for renewal shall be made at least 45, and not more than 60,
days before the expiration of a license issued under this chapter. An
application shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, the decision whether or not to renew a license
rests within the sound discretion of the City Council. No licensee has a right
to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.23 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the City Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee resulting in
a change in the principal owners is deemed to be a transfer of the license, and
such a transfer of stock without prior City Council approval is a ground for
revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license shall be
treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the provisions
of this chapter applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.24 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each adult use-primary business license shall be issued only to the
applicant for only the premises described in the application.
   (B)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or entity in the event a principal owner, is under the age of 18.
   (C)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises without evidence of the legally enforceable right of
the owner or proposed owner of the establishment to have or obtain the use and
possession of the tract.
   (D)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service
charges, or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (E)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises located in a zone other than zone I-1A.
   (F)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or an entity in the event 1 or more principal owner(s), has been
convicted of a specified criminal activity which is a felony.
   (G)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted to an
individual, or an entity in the event 1 or more principal owner(s), has been
convicted of specified criminal activities or had similar adult use licenses,
at 1 or more locations, suspended, denied, or revoked, whereby the violations
would exceed 10 accumulated points under this code.
   (H)   No adult use-primary business license shall be granted or renewed to
an individual, or an entity in the event 1 or more principal owner(s), has had
an adult use-primary business license revoked under the provisions of this
chapter within the past 5 years.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.25 CONDITIONS OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Generally. The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the following
conditions of the license specified below shall result in a suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct within the place of
business. The act of any employee on the licensed premises is deemed the act of
the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties
provided by this chapter and the law equally with the employee.
      (2)   The licensee is responsible for having the issued adult use-primary
business license posted and clearly visible and readable to the public in a
prominent location.
      (3)   The licensee is responsible for having the issued adult use-primary
manager license(s) for the on duty manager(s) posted and clearly visible and
readable to the public. Any such posted license is deemed evidence that the
manager is on duty and responsible for conduct on the premises.
      (4)   Every licensee shall allow, without a warrant, any peace officer,
health officer, city employee, or any other person designated by the City
Council to conduct compliance checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search
the premises of the licensee during business hours and after business hours
during the time when customers remain on the premises.
      (5)   One or more manager’s stations are required to maintain visibility
of all public areas within the licensed establishment.
         (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from the manager(s) station of the
entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. If the premises has 2 or more manager stations
designated, then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to
which any patron is permitted access for any purpose from at least 1 of the
manager stations. The view required in this subsection must be by direct line
of sight from the manager station. In lieu of a manager station, a camera and
video recording device covering all public areas (except rest rooms) may be
utilized. In the event a video recording device is utilized, management is
required to maintain recordings for all hours of operation for no less than 60
days. Managers are responsible for maintaining and ensuring that the recording
equipment is working appropriately. Failure to have complete recordings of the
previous 60 days may result in the imposition of points against the business
and/or manager license.
         (b)   A manager station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
         (c)   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least 1 licensed manager is on duty and situated in each manager
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
         (d)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any licensed manager present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in division (B)(5)(a) above remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials at all times
         (e)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any licensed manager present in the premises, to ensure that no patron
is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted.
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot-candle as measured at 3
feet above floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any licensed manager present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (7)   The exterior of the premises shall be equipped with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every parking area,
driving lanes, sidewalks, and an area 20 feet in front of all doors at an
illumination of not less than 1.5 foot-candle as measured at the ground. It
shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any
licensed manager present in the premises, to ensure that the illumination
described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in the
premises.
      (8)   Hours of operation, open to the public, are limited to between 8:00
a.m. and 1:00 a.m. of the subsequent calendar day on Sundays through Thursdays.
      (9)   Hours of operation, open to the public, are limited to between 8:00
a.m. and 3:00 a.m. of the subsequent calendar day on Fridays and Saturdays.
      (10)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain
on the licensed premises, including parking and other exterior areas, more than
30 minutes after the close of hours of operation.
      (11)   The possession or use of a controlled substance as defined under
M.S. Chapter 152, as it may be amended from time to time, is prohibited at the
licensed establishment.
      (12)   The sale or consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor
in violation of the Ordinance for Liquor Licensing and Regulation is prohibited
at the licensed establishment.
      (13)   Prostitution, solicitation, inducement, or promotion of
prostitution, or coercion of prostitution as defined under M.S. §§ 609.321
through 609.322 and 611A.80, as they may be amended from time to time, is
prohibited at the licensed establishment.
      (14)   Engaging in specified sexual acts is prohibited at the licensed
establishment.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.26 CONDITIONS ON PHYSICAL DESIGN.
   (A)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
   (B)   All wall, floor, and ceiling surfaces in all rooms, booths or other
enclosed or semi-enclosed areas of under 150 square feet to be constructed of,
or permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood,
plywood, composition board, or other porous material shall be used within 48
inches of the floor.
   (C)   Restrooms may not contain video transmission or reproduction
equipment.
   (D)   Exterior windows shall be opaque, screened, or otherwise maintained to
prevent viewing of merchandise or entertainment from outside the establishment.
   (E)   Exterior sign age shall not include any photograph, drawing,
silhouette or other caricature depicting specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   (F)   Establishments offering live entertainment must have stages of at
least 18 inches above floor level. The stage must have a bar, railing, fence,
or similar barrier at least 60 inches away from the stage or a solid, floor-to-
ceiling wall, window, or similar barrier.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.27 CONDITIONS ON LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Live entertainers, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall not
touch any patron.
   (B)   No patron shall touch any live entertainer, whether in a state of
nudity or clothed.
   (C)   Live entertainment, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall be
performed only upon a stage or surface at least 18 inches above floor level.
   (D)   Live entertainment, whether in a state of nudity or clothed, shall be
performed behind 1 of the following:
      (1)   A bar, railing, fence, or other similar barrier to keep patrons at
least 60 inches away from the stage; or
      (2)   A solid, floor-to-ceiling wall, window or other similar barrier to
prevent physical contact between patrons and entertainers. No opening in the
barrier is permitted.
   (E)   Live entertainment, in a state of nudity, shall not be performed at a
licensed liquor establishment.
   (F)   The licensee shall keep on file the full name, any aliases, including
stage names, addresses, and proof of age of all live entertainers. The records
shall be maintained for a period of at least 3 years.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.28 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60
days or revoke any license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter. Except in cases of lapse of proof of
managerial responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until
the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be
amended from time to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under
that act, or it may contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing
officer.
   (B)   Points are to be assigned according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Violations meriting 5 points include commission by the licensee, or
Principal owner, of a specified criminal activity that is a misdemeanor,
whether on or off the premises; commission by the licensee, or principal owner,
of use or possession of a controlled substance while on the premises;
revocation of an adult use license issued by another municipality or county;
operation without a valid adult use-primary business license.
      (2)   Violations meriting 3 points include false statement or omission in
the license application or failure to provide subsequent information that would
not have resulted in the revocation or denial of the license; suspension of an
adult use license issued by another municipality or county; non-payment of
civil fines imposed under §
112.29; interference with inspections or enforcement; hiring an unlicensed
manager; commission by a licensed manager of a specified criminal activity that
is a misdemeanor while on the premises; hiring a live entertainer under age 18;
occurrence of prostitution, solicitation, inducement, or promotion of
prostitution or coercion for prostitution on the premises.
      (3)   Violations meriting 2 points include failure to have a licensed
manager on duty; allowing a minor on the premises; allowing performance in a
prohibited area; allowing prohibited touching between patron and entertainer;
failure to maintain visibility or lighting requirements; allowing prohibited
conduct on premises.
      (4)   Violations meriting 1 point include failure to post license;
failure to maintain required live entertainer records; failure to maintain
physical design requirements; failure to maintain cleanliness; failure to
maintain recordings for the 60 days prior in lieu of a manager station;
conviction of a customer for specified criminal activity on the premises;
violation of public nuisance ordinance.
   (C)   Points are cumulative and remain on license, including a renewed
license, for 3 years. Occurrences continuing for more than 1 day shall be
considered separate occurrences for each day; each occurrence shall be
considered a separate violation. Violations will be cited in writing with
opportunity for appeal. Failure to appeal shall be deemed to indicate no
contest to the charge.
   (D)   The license shall be suspended by the City Council after a finding
under division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods below. The City
Council shall select the day or days during which the license will be
suspended.
      (1)   For 1 point, a 1-day suspension in addition to any criminal or
civil penalties which may be imposed.
      (2)   For 2 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 3 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (3)   For 3 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 4 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (4)   For 4 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 7 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (5)   For 5 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 10 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (6)   For 6 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 14 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (7)   For 7 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 21 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (8)   For 8 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 28 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (9)   For 9 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 35 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (10)   For 10 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 42
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
   (E)   The following are cause for revocation which shall be imposed by the
City Council for violations of the provisions of this chapter. Revocations
shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the revocation is
imposed:
      (1)   For over 10 points violation within any 3-year period;
      (2)   For discovery of a false statement or omission in the license
application or failure to provide subsequent information that would have
resulted in the denial or revocation of the license; and/or
      (3)   For commission of a specified criminal activity that is a felony.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.29 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   The City Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of this chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties. These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal
penalties imposed under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation
imposed under §
112.28. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required for the
City Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be amended from time
to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the City Council
shall hold a hearing on the alleged violation and the proposed penalty and hear
any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule
of presumptive civil penalties in addition to any suspensions which must be
imposed unless the license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
MANAGER LICENSE
§ 112.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to manage or operate an adult use-
primary without a valid adult use-primary manager license issued by the City
Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to this chapter. The applicant or licensee has an
affirmative duty to supplement an application with new information received
subsequent to the date the application was completed or license was issued.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.41 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an adult use-primary manager license is $50. The City
Council may amend from time to time by ordinance or resolution the license fee.
The license fee my not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs
directly related to the enforcement of this chapter; no license fee shall be
increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase
to all affected licensees at least 45 days before the hearing.
   (B)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.42 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Manager license shall be valid only at a specific premises. Each license
shall coincide with the expiration date of the adult use-primary business
license for which it is issued.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.43 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. The form shall be verified and filed with
the city. No person shall make a false statement in an application. The
following information shall be provided on the application form:
      (1)   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant(s);
      (2)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (3)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, or state-issued
identification number, and social security number;
      (4)   The name, address, and phone number of the establishment to be
managed;
      (5)   Whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting trial on
pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the adult use for
which the license was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant is or has been a
partner in a partnership or an officer, director, or principal stockholder of a
corporation that is or was licensed under an adult use ordinance whose license
has previously been denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and
location of the adult use for which the license was denied, suspended or
revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (7)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter
or other similar adult use ordinance from another city or county and, if so,
the names and locations of the other licensed businesses.
   (B)   Each application for a manager license shall be accompanied by the
following: payment of the application fee in full.
   (C)   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face. Any fees for the photographs shall be paid by the applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
5 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant, in this or any other city, county, state, or
country, has ever had any license, permit, or authorization to do business
denied, revoked, or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application;
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is
awaiting trial on pending charges, of a specified criminal activity and, if so,
the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of
each.
   (D)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct;
      (2)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter, the Adult Use Zoning Ordinance, and the Madison Lake City Zoning
Ordinance; and
      (3)   The applicant acknowledges the responsibility of management
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.44 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background investigation. On an initial application for a
license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in the sound
discretion of the City Council that it is in the public interest to do so, on
an application for renewal of a license, the city shall cause to be conducted a
preliminary background investigation. The applicant shall pay with the
application an investigation fee of$500 which shall be in addition to any
license fee. If the cost of the preliminary investigation is less than $500,
the unused portion shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Comprehensive background investigation. If the results of a
preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the City Council,
a comprehensive background investigation, the city may cause to be conducted a
comprehensive background investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background investigation to be paid by the applicant is $500,
less any amount paid for the initial investigation, if the investigation is to
be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.45 COUNCIL APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   The City Council in its sound discretion, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, may either grant or deny the application for any license or for the
transfer or renewal of any license. The City Council shall complete any
investigation and make its decision within 45 days of the city’s receipt of a
completed application. No applicant has a right to a license under this
chapter.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.46 APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 45 days before a license issued under this chapter, an application
shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. Pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, the decision whether or not to renew a license rests within the
sound discretion of the City Council. No licensee has a right to have the
license renewed.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.47 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No manager license issued under this chapter may be transferred to another
individual, premises, or licensed establishment.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.48 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each adult use-primary manager license shall be issued only to the
applicant for the premises described in the application.
   (B)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted or renewed for
operation on any premises which does not hold a valid business license.
   (C)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be issued to an individual
under the age of 18.
   (D)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be issued to an individual
who has been convicted of a specified criminal activity which is a felony.
   (E)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted to an individual
who has been convicted of specified criminal activities or had similar adult
use licenses, at 1 or more locations, suspended, denied, or revoked, whereby
the violations would exceed 10 accumulated points under this chapter.
   (F)   No adult use-primary manager license shall be granted or renewed to an
individual who has had an adult use-primary business license or adult use-
primary manager license revoked under the provisions of this chapter within the
past 5 years.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.49 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the following conditions of
the license specified below shall result in a suspension or revocation of the
license.
   (B)   (1)   When the licensee is managing the premises, he or she is
responsible for the conduct within the place of business. The act of any
employee on the licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well,
and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and
the law equally with the employee.
      (2)   When the licensee is managing the premises, he or she is
responsible for ensuring that his or her adult use-primary manager license is
posted and clearly visible and readable to the public. Any such posted license
is deemed evidence that the manager is on duty and responsible for conduct on
the premises.
      (3)   When the licensee is managing the premises, he or she is
responsible for maintaining his or her position in the designated manager
station, or is responsible for ensuring the proper recording of all public
areas via video recording equipment and maintaining a record of the recordings
for a period no less than 60 days.
      (4)   When the licensee is managing the premises, he or she shall not be
in a state of nudity.
      (5)   When the licensee is managing the premises, he or she shall not
have a blood alcohol content exceeding 0.08 or be in the possession or use of a
controlled substance.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.50 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend or revoke any license upon
finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter. No suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has
been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be amended from time
to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body under that act, or it may
contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Points are to be assigned according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Violations meriting 5 points include commission of a specified
criminal activity that is a misdemeanor, revocation of an adult use license
issued by another municipality or county, operating without a valid adult use-
primary manager license.
      (2)   Violations meriting 3 points include suspension of an adult use
license issued by another municipality or county; non-payment of civil fines
imposed under §
112.51 interference with inspections or enforcement; failure to post manager
license or maintain position at manager station while on duty; hiring a live
entertainer under age 18; occurrence of prostitution, solicitation, inducement,
or promotion of prostitution or coercion for prostitution on the premises.
      (3)   Violations meriting 2 points include allowing a minor on the
premises, allowing performance in a prohibited area, allowing prohibited
touching between patron and entertainer, failing to maintain visibility or
lighting requirements, allowing prohibited conduct on premises.
      (4)   Violations meriting 1 point include failure to maintain
cleanliness, failure to maintain physical design requirements, conviction of a
customer for criminal activity of a sexual nature occurring on the premises,
failure to maintain video recordings as required, violation of Public Nuisance
Ordinance.
   (C)   Points are cumulative and remain on license, including a renewed
license, for 3 years. Occurrences continuing for more than 1 day shall be
considered separate occurrences for each day when the licensee was on duty;
each occurrence shall be considered a separate violation. Violations will be
cited in writing with opportunity for appeal. Failure to appeal shall be deemed
to indicate no contest to the charge.
   (D)   The license shall be suspended by the City Council after a finding
under division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods below. The City
Council shall select the day or days during which the license will be
suspended.
      (1)   For 1 point, a 1-day suspension in addition to any criminal or
civil penalties which may be imposed.
      (2)   For 2 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 3 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (3)   For 3 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 4 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (4)   For 4 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 7 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (5)   For 5 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 10 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (6)   For 6 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 14 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (7)   For 7 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 21 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (8)   For 8 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 28 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (9)   For 9 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 35 consecutive
days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
      (10)   For 10 points accumulated within any 3-year period, a 42
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
   (E)   The following are cause for revocation which shall be imposed by the
City Council for violations of the provisions of this chapter. Revocations
shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which the revocation is
imposed.
      (1)   For over 10 points violation within any 3-year period.
      (2)   For discovery of a false statement or omission in the license
application or failure to provide subsequent information that would have
resulted in the denial or revocation of the license.
      (3)   For commission of a specified criminal activity that is a felony.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 112.51 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   The City Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of this chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties. These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal
penalties imposed under division (A) above or any suspension or revocation
imposed under §
112.50. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required for the
City Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.69, as they may be amended from time
to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the City Council
shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and
hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license.
The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties in
addition to any suspensions which must be imposed unless the license is
revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 223, passed 1-21-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: CHARITABLE GAMBLING ACTIVITIES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Applications
   
113.03   Bingo halls
   
113.04   Age restrictions
   
113.05   Restriction of expenditure from lawful gambling operations to local
trade area
   
113.06   Reports
   
113.07   Donation required
   
113.08   Tax
   
113.09   Proceeds
   
113.10   Reports and tax returns
   
113.11   Suspension, revocation, and nonrenewable of licenses
   
113.12   Effective date
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms contained in this chapter shall have the meaning described to them
by the Minnesota Statutes and any successor statutes dealing with regulation of
gambling.
   ACTIVITIES. Charitable gambling and/or bingo.
   GAMBLING ORGANIZATIONS. Shall be from the Madison Lake trade area.
   MADISON LAKE TRADE AREA. The City of Madison Lake, all of Jamestown, and
Leroy, and the part of Lime and Washington that is in the Madison Lake Fire
District.
   NET PROFIT. Profits less allowable expenses under the laws and regulations
of the State of Minnesota relating to lawful gambling.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Madison Lake Police Department.
   PREMISES. The place where the activities are to take place.
   PROGRAM. A printed description including the following information:
      (1)   The address of the premises at which the bingo occasion will be
held;
      (2)   The time when the bingo occasion will be held;
      (3)   The cost of each card or package of cards;
      (4)   The pay out for each game;
      (5)   The color of card to be used for each game.;
      (6)   The name and address of the organization conducting the bingo
occasion;
      (7)   If packages of cards are to be sold, a description of the package
indicating the number of cards and their color(s);
      (8)   A description of any special pay out; and
      (9)   A description of what is required to win each game.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 113.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Any organization seeking licensure by the State of Minnesota to conduct
charitable gambling activities or bingo in the City of Madison Lake shall
submit the following information to the City Clerk-Treasurer:
   (A)   A copy of the lease and any addenda thereto for the premises where the
charitable gambling and/or bingo activities are to be held if the premises
where the activities are to be held are not owned by the organization
conducting the charitable gambling and/or bingo;
   (B)   A drawing showing the dimensions and location of the area leased for
conducting the activities;
   (C)   A copy of the articles of incorporation of the organization conducting
the activities;
   (D)   Proof that the organization has been the existence in the Madison Lake
Trade area for 3 or more years;
   (E)   The full name and date of birth of all officers involved in conducting
the activities;
   (F)   A description of the internal controls to be used by the organization
to comply with Minn. Rules, part 7860.0150, as it may be amended from time to
time; and
   (G)   In the case of an organization conducting bingo, a reconcile of the
number of bingo cards sold against the inventory of bingo cards purchased by
the organization.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 113.03 BINGO HALLS.
   (A)   Bingo occasions conducted in a bingo hall, or on premises not owned by
the organization conducting the bingo occasion, shall comply with the
following.
   (B)   Bingo cards may not be used for more than 1 game, unless the game is a
consecutive one.
   (C)   Bingo cards shall be serially numbered.
   (D)   The organization conducting bingo shall maintain an inventory list of
all bingo cards and their serial numbers and shall make the inventory available
to city personnel inspecting the premises at all times that the bingo hall is
open for bingo.
   (E)   A written program for each bingo occasion shall be prepared and
submitted to the Police Department for its approval at least 14 days prior to
the occasion and shall be prominently displayed at the premises where the bingo
occasion is held.
   (F)   No bingo occasion may be held unless prior approval of the bingo
program has been given by the Police Chief or his or her designee.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to be present, enter,
or remain on the premises of an establishment where pull-tabs, tip boards, or
paddlewheels are being played and/or sold unless the minor is accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian. This prohibition shall not apply to persons
employed by or working as volunteers on the premises while under the
supervision and control of a person 18 years of age or older. Nor shall this
prohibition apply to persons coming on to the premises of a fraternal
organization for the purpose of attending a function of meeting for an
organization of which the person is a member such as a scout troop, youth
group, or auxiliary sponsored by the fraternal organization. In reviewing an
application for a gambling license, the City Council shall review the
provisions made by the applicant to restrict entry onto the premises by minors.
The Council shall disapprove any license application for premises that do not
effectively provide for preventing entry by minors.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 RESTRICTION OF EXPENDITURE FROM LAWFUL GAMBLING OPERATIONS TO LOCAL
TRADE AREA.
   Each licensed organization which conducts lawful gambling activities within
the City of Madison Lake shall expend a minimum of 90% of its lawful
expenditures of funds derived from gambling activities for the direct benefit
of the citizens living within the Madison Lake Trade Area. The Madison Lake
Trade Area is defined in §
113.01.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 REPORTS.
   Each licensed organization which conducts lawful gambling activities shall
file with the City Clerk-Treasurer on a quarterly basis, a report specifying
the amount of funds expended in the Madison Lake Trade Area and the benefits
derived by the citizens of the Madison Lake Trade Area.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 DONATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Organizations licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
shall donate 10% of its net profits from the conduct of the lawful gambling to
the City Clerk-Treasurer. The donations shall be made to the Madison Lake City
Clerk-Treasurer by the twentieth of the month following the end of each
quarter. For the purposes of this section, a calendar quarter shall be deemed
to the end 11:50 p.m. on the last day of March, June, September, and December.
   (B)   In addition to the donation required by division (A) above, all
organizations conducting lawful gambling within the city, shall spend a minimum
of 90% of its net proceeds on lawful purposes, as defined by applicable
Minnesota laws and regulations, within the Madison Lake Trade Area, which
consists of the city and town of Jamestown and LeRay, within the same calendar
year that the proceeds are received by the organization conducting the
charitable gambling. Any expenditures made during January of any year may, at
the option of the charitable organization, be deemed to have been made in the
prior calendar year to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of this
subdivision.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a raffle shall be deemed to have
occurred within the city if the drawing for any of the prizes awarded pursuant
to the raffle is held within the city.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 TAX.
   A tax of 3% shall be imposed upon the net profits received by a licensed
organization within the City of Madison Lake from the conduct of lawful
gambling activities. The 3% tax shall be levied on the net receipts less the
cost of prizes and allowed expenses actually paid out by the organization. The
tax shall be paid to the city on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds from the tax shall be used for the purpose of regulating
charitable gambling.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 113.10 REPORTS AND TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   All organizations conducting lawful gambling within the City of
Madison Lake shall provide the City Clerk-Treasurer with copies of all reports
it provided to the Charitable Gambling Control Board. The City Clerk-Treasurer
may require the additional documentation as the Clerk-Treasurer may deem
reasonably necessary to prove that organizations have met the requirements of
the tax and donations sections of this chapter.
   (B)   The licensed organization shall submit to the City Clerk-Treasurer, a
copy of the organization’s State Charitable Tax Return, together with all
schedules attached thereto. The State Charitable Gambling Tax Return and
schedules shall be filed at the same time that the return required by the city
is filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 113.11 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, AND NONRENEWABLE OF LICENSES.
   If any organization shall fail to make the payments required by this chapter
or fail to provide the City Clerk-Treasurer with reports as required by this
chapter, the failure shall be grounds for the city to recommend to the
Charitable Gambling Control Board that the gambling license for the
organization be suspended, revoked, or not renewed.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 113.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall apply to all lawful gambling conducted in the City of
Madison Lake and become effective 10-15-2001 and after this chapter publication
in summary form.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-17-2001)
CHAPTER 114: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
114.01   Shooting galleries; target shooting places
   
114.02   Coin-operated mechanical amusement devices
   
114.03   Circuses, caravans, theatrical performances, and other shows or
exhibitions
   
114.04   Pool tables, billiard tables, and similar devices
Cross-reference:
   License background checks, see §
34.02
§ 114.01 SHOOTING GALLERIES; TARGET SHOOTING PLACES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall maintain or conduct a shooting
gallery or place for target shooting in the City of Madison Lake without first
having obtained a license therefore as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Issuance. Any person(s) may obtain and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
issue, when granted by the City Council, a license to maintain and conduct a
shooting gallery or place for target shooting in the City of Madison Lake upon
payment of the required fee and providing proof of valid insurance coverage.
   (C)   Shooting firearms prohibited. No person shall shoot or discharge any
bow and arrow, pistol, revolver, or other firearm including BB guns and pellet
guns except at a duly licensed shooting gallery or duly licensed place for
target practice.
   (D)   Exemptions. Licensed peace officers in the performance of their lawful
duties are exempt from this section.
   (E)   Violations. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Effective date. This section becomes effective from and after its
passage and summary publication.
(Ord. 178, passed 8-16-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.02 COIN-OPERATED MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COIN-OPERATED MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which, upon the
insertion of a coin, token, or slug, operates or may be operated by the public
generally for use as a game, entertainment, music, or amusement, and which
contains no automatic pay-off device for the return of money, coins, checks,
tokens, or merchandise, or which provides no such pay-off by any other means or
manner except that this provision may not prohibit the licensing of such a
machine which returns slugs or tokens which may be used only in the machine
licensed and which in itself does not constitute a gambling device. The term
shall include so-called pinball machines, music machines, motion picture
machines, and all other machines which, by the insertion of a coin or token,
operate for the entertainment or amusement of the player, except weighing
machines.
   (B)   License. No person, firm, or corporation shall own, operate, maintain,
or keep for operation within the City of Madison Lake any such coin-operated
mechanical amusement device as defined without first having applied for and
received a license as hereinafter provided. No license shall be issued for any
gambling device as gambling licenses are issued by the State of Minnesota.
   (C)   Application for license.
      (1)   Each owner or lessee of each individual machine or device shall
make application at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, upon forms
furnished by the city, for a license. Each application shall be accompanied by
the annual license fee as stated in the license fee schedule Chapter 33.
      (2)   The license shall be displayed in a prominent place at the business
on or before January 1 and shall expire December 31, and shall be renewed prior
to January 1 each year thereafter. The license shall not be transferable from
person to person. Upon revocation or lapsing of any license, no refund shall be
made of any portion of the license fee. License fees shall not be prorated for
partial year terms.
   (D)   License revocation. Any license granted under the terms of this
section may be revoked by the City Council at any time without a hearing and
without notice to the licensee. Any misstatement of fact in the applications
for the licenses shall be grounds for revocation of the license.
   (E)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force after
its passage and publication in summary form.
(Ord. 136, passed 11-9-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 CIRCUSES, CARAVANS, THEATRICAL PERFORMANCES, AND OTHER SHOWS OR
EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
make or exhibit within the City of Madison Lake any circus, caravan, theatrical
performance, concert, or other show or exhibition or to exhibit natural or
other curiosities for which pay or compensation of any kind shall be required,
without first having been licensed therefor as hereinafter provided; provided,
however, that when the proceeds or benefits of the show or exhibition be wholly
or for the most part-applied to charity or public uses, or where lectures are
of a scientific, literary, or religious nature, no license shall be required.
(1970 Code, § 315.00)
   (B)   Issuance. Any person or persons may obtain, and the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue, a license to exhibit any such circus, caravan,
theatrical performance, concert, or other show or exhibition mentioned in
division (A) above in the City of Madison Lake upon payment into the city
treasury of the required license fee and the exhibition to the City Clerk-
Treasurer of the city of receipts for the payment thereof.
(1970 Code, § 315.05)
   (C)   Term limited. No license granted under the provisions of this section
shall extend beyond the annual election of officers next succeeding after the
granting thereof.
(1970 Code, § 315.15)
   (D)   Duties of the Police Department. It shall be the duty of the Police
Department of the City of Madison Lake, and of all other police officers of the
city in any case where the provisions of this section are violated to arrest
the person or persons violating the same and bring him or her or them before a
court having jurisdiction, to answer any alleged offense in the case.
(1970 Code, § 315.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 POOL TABLES, BILLIARD TABLES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   (A)   License required. No person or persons shall keep in the City of
Madison Lake either directly or indirectly any public billiard table, pool
table, pigeonhole table, or bowling saloon or similar device, wherein, whereat
or whereon the person or persons shall permit or allow any other person or
persons to play at any game of billiards, pool, ten pins, or any other game or
games whatsoever without first having obtained a license therefor as
hereinafter provided.
(1970 Code, § 330:00)
   (B)   Hours open. It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to keep and
maintain billiard table, pool table, pigeonhole table, bowling alley, or
similar device in the City of Madison Lake, to permit the place to remain open
between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and 12:01 a.m. and
12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(1970 Code, § 330:10)
   (C)   Application and issuance. Any person may obtain a license to keep such
a billiard table, pool table, pigeonhole table, bowling saloon, or similar
device as mentioned in division (A) above, and to permit games to be played
thereat and thereon, upon payment into the city treasury of the City of Madison
Lake of the required license fee.
(1970 Code, § 330:15)
   (D)   Term limited. All licenses granted under the provisions of this act
shall not extend beyond the annual election of officers of the city next after
the granting thereof.
(1970 Code, § 330:20) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
115.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
115.04   License ineligibility
   
115.05   License suspension and revocation
   
115.06   License transferability
   
115.07   Registration
   
115.08   Prohibited activities
   
115.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more
than 14 consecutive days.
§ 115.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
115.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political, and
other ideas.
§ 115.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
115.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, adopted pursuant to this code, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer, within 2 regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk-
Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk-
Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required necessary information that
is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk-Treasurer must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within 10 regular business days of
receiving a complete application the City Clerk-Treasurer must issue the
license unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
115.04, in which case the Clerk-Treasurer must deny the license. If the City
Clerk-Treasurer denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing
of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal
the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a
public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal
within 20 days of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council
following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court
of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion, and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the date
of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation,
or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s ability to
conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an honest and
legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or 3 complaints filed
against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 115.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
115.04; and/or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under 1 license. The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk-Treasurer within 10
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within 3 regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
115.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-
transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and/or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4 inches
wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors,
or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the property
owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign or
placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: UNIFORM HOUSING CODE FOR RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY, HAZARDOUS
STRUCTURE AND HOUSING MAINTENANCE
Section
   
116.01   Title
   
116.02   Purpose
   
116.03   Scope
   
116.04   Discrimination and private contracts
   
116.05   Definitions
   
116.06   Application
   
116.07   Licensing of residential rental property
   
116.08   License denial, suspension or revocation
   
116.09   Conduct on licensed premises
   
116.10   Authority enforcement and responsibility
   
116.11   Inspections
   
116.12   Emergency cases
   
116.13   Residential district
   
116.14   Parking
 
   
116.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For further information on Structures in Hazardous Conditions, see §§
93.100-93.106
   For further information on residential zoning districts, see §§
150.15 et seq.
§ 116.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the Madison Lake Uniform Housing and
Maintenance Code and referred to as this Code. This Code shall cover all
residential structures, residential rental structures, hazardous structures,
and housing maintenance.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
life or limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling
the use, occupancy, location and maintenance of all residential buildings and
structures within this jurisdiction. The purpose of this Code is not to create
or otherwise establish or designate any particular class or group of persons
who will or should be especially protected or benefitted by this Code.
Objectives of this Code include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Protect the character and stability of residential areas within the
city.
      (2)   Correct and/or prevent housing conditions that adversely affect, or
are likely to adversely affect, life, safety, health and the general welfare of
residents.
      (3)   Provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings, thus preventing substandard housing and blight.
      (4)   Preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city.
      (5)   Preserve the value of land and buildings throughout the city.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by terms of this Code, any other
ordinance, regulation or law, the city, its employees or agents will not
intrude upon the accepted contractual relationships between landlord and
tenant. The city, its employees or agents will not intervene as an advocate of
either party.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.03 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this code establish minimum standards for
maintaining dwellings, accessory structures and premises. Such occupancies in
existing buildings may be continued as provided in the International Property
Maintenance Code and shall apply to all buildings or portions thereof used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation except:
      (1)   Such structures as are found to be substandard as defined in this
code.
      (2)   Present and future licensed rental properties not in compliance
with this code or any other code, statute, ordinance or regulation that have
not been granted as a valid variance or those considered legally nonconforming.
      (3)   If continuation of such use presents a clear danger to life,
health, property, or public welfare.
      (4)   Where any building or portion thereof is used or intended to be
used as a combination apartment house-hotel, the provision of this code shall
apply to the separate portions as if they were separate buildings.
   (B)   This code also applies to all buildings which are rented in whole or
in part as a dwelling for persons other than the property owner's family as
defined herein. It includes accessory structures such as garages and storage
buildings and rooming houses or lodging houses.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 116.04 DISCRIMINATION AND PRIVATE CONTRACTS.
   This chapter shall be enforced in a nondiscriminatory manner and exclusively
for the purpose of promoting public welfare. The city neither expressly nor by
implication assumes any obligations or liabilities respecting such private
rights or disputes, including those which involve or arise out of the non-
conformity of any premises in the city to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in the
singular include the plural and the plural the singular. Words used in the
masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license under this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration for the
issuance of a license for the rental of residential property.
   BASEMENT. The lowest story of any building that does not meet the minimum
requirements of a first story as defined herein.
   DWELLING.  A building, wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes by human occupants; but not
including rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, hotels, motels,
facilities licensed by the State of Minnesota as institutional occupancies or
dormitories. May also be called a residence or residential building.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A room or group of rooms within a dwelling, forming a single
habitable unit.
   EGRESS.  An arrangement of exit facilities to assure safe means of exit from
a building with specific dimensions as required in this Code or any applicable
code.
   EXIT. A continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public way. Exit
includes intervening doors, corridors, ramps, stairways, and courts.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their places of harborage; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination method.
EXTERMINATION shall include removing all signs of EXTERMINATION  thereafter.
   FAMILY. An individual or 2 or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption, foster children, or a group of not more than 5 unrelated persons,
living together as a single housekeeping unit, within a dwelling unit, as
distinguished from individuals or a group occupying a hotel, motel, club,
lodge, sorority, fraternity, or dormitory.
   FAMILY (FUNCTIONAL). A collective group of unrelated persons residing in a
single dwelling unit, limited to not more than 2 adult persons, together with
their traditional family members of any age.
   FAMILY (TRADITIONAL). One or more persons related by blood or marriage
residing in a single dwelling unit.
   FIRST STORY. The lowest story in a building provided it is not more than 4
feet below grade for more than 50% of its perimeter, or more than 8 feet below
grade at any point in its perimeter.
   FLOOR AREA, LIVEABLE OR USEABLE.  The FLOOR AREA within the enclosing walls
of a room, excluding areas occupied by closets, built-in-equipment, base
cabinets, fixtures and appliances. Such area shall not include that portion of
any room with a sloping ceiling where the floor-to-ceiling measurement is less
than 5 feet.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room used or intended to be used for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, water closet compartments,
laundries, pantries, foyers, corridors, unoccupied cellars. Accessory garages,
porches, attics, stairways, bathrooms, closets and storage spaces, and utility
and heating areas.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated head of the Department of Health of
this jurisdiction.
   INFESTATION. The presence of insects, rodents or other pests within or
around the buildings on the premises.
   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. The International Property
Maintenance Code promulgated by the International Code Council, as adopted by
this jurisdiction.
   LICENSE.  A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or
her to rent residential property.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city allowing him or
her to rent residential property.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to rent residential property.
   MECHANICAL CODE. The Uniform Mechanical Code promulgated jointly by The
International Conference of Building Officials and the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   MINNESOTA BUILDING CODE.  The Uniform Building Code promulgated by the
International Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use of land or occupancy that does not comply with the
regulations of this chapter, but which did conform to regulations in effect at
the time of original occupancy or licensing.
   NUISANCE. The following shall be defined as nuisances:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence.
      (2)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, on the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied
lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements, or excavations;
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences
or structures; or any lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may
prove a hazard for inquisitive minors.
       (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health,
as determined by the Health Officer.
      (4)   Overcrowding a room with occupants.
      (5)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination.
      (6)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities.
      (7)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the Health Officer.
   OCCUPANT. Any person residing in a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   OPERATOR, CARETAKER, MANAGER. Any person who has charge, care or control of
a structure, or part thereof, in which rental dwelling units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or agent, who alone, jointly or
severally with others shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care or
control of any dwelling or dwelling unit. Any owner living more than 50 miles
from the city is required to have an on-site or local caretaker.
   PLUMBING CODE.  The Uniform Plumbing Code promulgated by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
     PREMISES.  The dwelling and its land and all buildings thereon.
   RENTAL INSPECTOR.  A person appointed by the City Council to conduct annual
inspections according to this chapter and the Minnesota Building Code adopted
by this jurisdiction.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Shall include living units rented on a month-to-month basis
or greater. Such property may include single-family homes, duplexes, triplexes
or multi-family units. Exempt from such definition shall be motels, hotels,
boarding houses, bed-and-breakfast facilities and any facility exempt from city
regulation due to state or federal rules and regulations.
     ROOMING UNIT.  A room or group of rooms forming a habitable unit used or
intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking purposes,
along with private or shared sanitation facilities.
   UNRELATED PERSONS. Two or more individuals who are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 116.06 APPLICATION.
   This section shall apply to any and all persons operating residential rental
property.
   (A)   Applications.
      (1)   New and renewals. All applications shall be made at the office of
the City Clerk, upon forms which have been approved by motion of the City
Council. Applications for renewal licenses may be made on abbreviated forms.
      (2)   Forms. All such applications must be subscribed, sworn to, and
include, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Applicant(s) full name and date of birth. In those cases where
the owner is a corporation or partnership, the application must include the
full names and dates of births of the principals;
         (b)   Applicant(s) present address and phone number;
         (c)   Applicant(s) address for 3 years prior to the date of the
application;
         (d)   Address of property to be rented;
         (e)   Number of off-street parking spaces on the property;
         (f)   Number of rental units;
         (g)   Number of bedrooms per rental unit;
         (h)   Name of on-site/local person (if other than applicant(s))
responsible for the rental unit;
         (i)   Whether or not the rental unit is owner-occupied;
         (j)   Whether or not the applicant(s) has ever been convicted of a
felony, or a misdemeanor, including violation of a City of Madison Lake
ordinance, excluding traffic violations except alcohol-related violations, and,
if so, the nature of the offense and date and place of conviction; and
         (k)   Such other information as the Council may deem necessary
considering the nature of the use for which the license application is made.
   (B)   False application. It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally
make false statements or omissions upon any application form. Any false
statements in such application, or any willful omission to state any
information called for on such application form, shall, upon discovery of such
falsehood work an automatic refusal of license or, if already issued, shall
render void any license or permit issued pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Approval. Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of all
license fees, the application will be forwarded to the Rental Inspector, who
shall review the application for conflicts with zoning ordinances, parking
requirements, and any other applicable statute, ordinance, code or regulation.
All properties must meet and fully comply with the requirements set forth in
the International Property Maintenance Code. A rental license will be issued
after the property is in full compliance with all requirements. The property
may not be rented until final approval as evidenced by the issuance of the
license.
   (D)   Reissuance of a rental license. Any property with a cancelled rental
license shall be handled as if the property were a new license. Such issuance
will require the property to comply with all codes in effect at the time of the
new license application.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-21-2011; Am. Ord. 2024-
04, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 116.07 LICENSING OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Obtaining license. No person shall operate a residential rental
property without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Property conforms. No operating license shall be issued, transferred
as allowed under division (F) of this section, or renewed unless the
residential rental property conforms to city ordinances and State of Minnesota
laws, including but not limited to, the International Property Maintenance
Code.
   (C)   Verification of fees paid. The applicant(s) shall provide verification
to the city that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments,
interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the
application relates. If the applicant(s) is unable to provide such
certification, the rental license shall be denied.
   (D)   Expiration. Rental licenses shall expire on the 30th day of October
immediately following such issuance.
   (E)   License fees. The annual license fee shall be established by Council
resolution and due by the expiration date of the license.
   (F)   License not transferable. Rental licenses may not be transferred
without proper application being made to the City Clerk. Every person holding
an operating license shall give notice in writing to the city within 5 business
days after having legally conveyed or otherwise disposed of the legal control
of any licensed property. Such notice shall include the name and address of the
person succeeding to the ownership or control of such residential rental
property therein consistent with the provisions of the ordinances of the city
and the State of Minnesota laws. In the event that an operating license is
suspended or revoked by the City Council for just cause, it shall be unlawful
for the owner or duly authorized agent to thereafter permit any new occupancies
of vacant or vacated dwellings or dwelling units until such time as a valid
operating license may be restored by the City Council.
   (G)   Posting. All licensees must post on the rental premises a copy of
their rental license.
   (H)   Exemption. No rental license is required for an owner’s immediate
family — spouse, child, father, mother, brother, sister, stepchildren, legally
adopted children, state-assigned foster children, or any combination of the
above persons.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-04, passed 3-21-2011; Am. Ord. 2024-
05, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 116.08 LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Notification. Prior to denial, suspension or revocation, the licensee
or his or her designated agent and all occupants of units potentially subject
to denial, suspension or revocation, shall be notified in writing pursuant to
the terms of this chapter. Any applicant whose license is denied, or any
licensee whose license is suspended or revoked, shall be entitled to appeal and
to a hearing on such appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to all
interested parties at least 20 days prior to a hearing.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held before the City Council or a Hearing
Examiner appointed by the City Council. The hearing shall be conducted to meet
the licensee and occupant’s due process rights, including:
      (1)   Allowing interested parties, or their attorneys, the right to
present evidence, witnesses, and to cross-examine all adverse witnesses; and
      (2)   Making a complete record of all proceedings, including findings of
fact and conclusions of law.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation. Every operating license issued under the
provisions of this chapter is subject to suspension or revocation for the
entire rental dwelling or for individual rental units, by the City Council,
should the licensee fail to properly license and maintain the rental unit. A
rental license may also be denied, suspended or revoked for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The license and/or license application was procured by
misrepresentation of material facts, by fraud, by deceit or by bad faith.
      (2)   The applicant or duly authorized agent acting on his or her behalf
made oral or written misstatements or misrepresentations of material facts in
or accompanying the application.
      (3)   The activities of the licensee or the failure to adequately
maintain the property to comply with health, safety, building codes and this
chapter.
   (D)   Effect of denial, suspension or revocation. In the event a rental
license is denied, suspended or revoked by the City Council, it shall be
unlawful for the owner or his or her duly authorized agent to thereafter permit
any new occupancies of vacant or thereafter vacated rental units, until such
time as a valid rental license is restored to the affected units.
   (E)   Failure to obtain a license. If it is determined that a rental unit is
being operated without a valid license, an immediate inspection shall be
conducted. It shall be unlawful for an owner, designated agent, or operator,
after notice has been sent certified mail, to continue operation of a rental
dwelling unit without submitting an application for a license under this
chapter, along with the necessary fee. Once an application for a license has
been made, it shall be unlawful for the owner, or his or her duly authorized
agent, to permit any new occupancies of vacant or thereafter vacated rental
units until such time as the license is issued.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.09 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take appropriate
action following conduct by occupant(s) or guest(s) of the occupant(s) which is
in violation of any of the following statutes:
      (1)   M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.76, which prohibit gambling.
      (2)   M.S. §§ 609.321 through 609.324, which prohibit prostitution and
acts relating thereto.
      (3)   M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.025, and § 152.027 subdivisions 1 and 2,
which prohibit the unlawful sale, possession of and manufacturing of controlled
substances.
       (4)   M.S. § 340A.401, which regulates the unlawful sale of alcoholic
beverages.
      (5)   M.S. § 609.33, which prohibits owning, leasing, operating,
managing, maintaining, or conducting a disorderly house, or inviting or
attempting to invite others to visit or remain in a disorderly house.
      (6)   M.S. § 609.72, which prohibits disorderly conduct.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his/her designee shall be responsible for
enforcing and/or administration of this section.
   (C)   Upon determination by the Chief of Police that a licensed premises or
a dwelling unit was involved in a violation of division (A) above, the Chief of
Police shall notify the licensee by certified mail of the violation and direct
the licensee to take steps to prevent further violations. A copy of said notice
shall be sent by first-class mail to the occupant in violation of § 116.09(A).
   (D)   Upon a second violation within 12 months of division (A) of this
section, involving a guest or an occupant of a dwelling unit, the notice
provided under division (C) of this section shall require the licensee to
submit a written report of the action taken to prevent further violations on
the premises. This written report shall be submitted to the Chief of Police
within 5 days of the request of said report and shall detail all actions taken
by the licensee in response to all notices regarding violations to division (A)
of this section within the preceding 12 months. If the licensee fails to comply
with the requirements of division (A), the rental dwelling license for the
individual dwelling may be denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed. An action
to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a license under this section shall be
initiated by the City Council at the request of the Chief of Police.
   (E)   If a third or subsequent violation of division (A) of this section
involving a guest of or an occupant of a dwelling unit occurs within 12 months
after any 2 previous instances for which notices were sent to the licensee
regarding the same dwelling unit, the rental dwelling license for the
individual rental unit may be denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed. An
action to deny, revoke, suspend, or
not renew a license under this section shall be initiated by the City Council
at the request of the Chief of Police.
   (F)   No adverse license action shall be imposed if the violation to
division (A) of this section occurred during the pendency of eviction
proceedings (unlawful detainer) or within 30 days of notice given by the
licensee to an occupant to vacate the premises, where the violation was related
to conduct by that occupant, other occupants, or the occupant's guests.
Eviction proceedings shall not be a bar to adverse license action, however,
unless they are diligently pursued by the licensee. Further, an action to deny,
revoke, suspend, or not renew a license based upon violations of this section
may be postponed or discontinued at any time if it appears that the licensee
has taken appropriate measures which will prevent further violations to
division (A) of this section.
   (G)   A determination that the licensed premises or dwelling unit has been
used in violation of division (A) of this section shall be made by the City
Council upon substantial evidence to support such a determination. It shall not
be necessary that criminal charges be brought to support a determination of
violation to division (A) of this section, nor shall the facts of dismissal or
acquittal of criminal charges operate as a bar to adverse license action under
this section.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.10 AUTHORITY ENFORCEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY. 
   (A)   Authority. The Building Inspector and/or Rental Inspector is/are
hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the provisions of this Code.
For such purposes, they shall be known and appointed as housing inspectors/
enforcement officers having the authority to issue notices of violation and
criminal citations for violations of this chapter. They shall have the power to
render interpretations of this chapter and to adopt and enforce rules and
supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformity with the
intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)    Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this Code, or whenever the Building Official or his or her
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in
any building or upon any premises which is contrary to or in violation of this
chapter, he or she may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to
inspect or to perform the duties imposed by this chapter, provided that if such
building or premises is occupied, official credentials will be presented to the
occupant, and entry requested. If such building or premises is unoccupied, he
or she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person
having charge or control of the building or premises, and request entry. If
entry is refused, the housing inspector(s) and/or enforcement officer(s) shall
have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
      (2)   Exception.  Licensed rental properties are subject to inspection
for purposes of this chapter at any time without requirement for warrant.
   (C)   Responsibilities defined. Owners remain liable for violations of
duties imposed by this chapter even though an obligation is also imposed on the
occupants of the building and even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed
on the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or of complying with
this chapter.
      (1)   Buildings, structures and parts thereof shall be maintained in a
safe and sanitary condition. The owner or the owner's designated agent shall be
responsible for such maintenance. To determine compliance with this division,
the building may be re-inspected.
      (2)   Owners, in addition to being responsible for maintaining the
buildings in a sound structural condition, shall be responsible for keeping
that part of the building or premises which the owner occupies or controls in a
clean, sanitary and safe condition, including the shared or public areas in a
building containing 2 or more dwelling units.
      (3)   Owners shall, when required by this chapter or any other applicable
code, ordinance, regulation or statute, furnish and maintain such approved
sanitary facilities required, and shall furnish and maintain approved devices,
equipment or facilities for the prevention of insect and rodent infestation,
and when infestation has taken place, shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests when such extermination is
not specifically made the responsibility of the occupant by law or ruling.
      (4)   Occupants of a dwelling unit, in addition to being responsible for
keeping in a sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling or dwelling
unit or premises which they occupy and control, shall properly dispose of their
rubbish, garbage and other organic waste in a manner required by this chapter,
or any other applicable code, ordinance, regulation or statute.
      (5)   Occupants shall, when required by this chapter, or any other
applicable code, ordinance, regulation or statute, furnish and maintain
approved devices, equipment or facilities necessary to keep their premises safe
and sanitary.
   (D)   Administration. The City Clerk and/or his or her designated agent
shall administer the provisions of this chapter and are hereby authorized to
cause inspections on a scheduled basis and/or when reason exists to believe
that a violation of this chapter has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Authority. When the City Council determines that a violation exists, a
written evaluation of deficiencies shall be considered prima facie evidence in
any subsequent litigation of a violation under this chapter.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.11 INSPECTIONS. 
   (A)   All new and existing licensed rental properties, including owner-
occupied licensed units, will be inspected on a regularly scheduled basis. The
property may not be rented until final approval as evidenced by the issuance of
the license, or renewed if there are life/safety code violations outstanding at
the time of renewal. A rental license will be issued after the property is in
full compliance with all requirements.
   (B)   Inspection access. If any owner, agent, operator, occupant or other
person in charge of a dwelling or dwelling unit fails or refuses to permit free
access and entry to the dwelling or a dwelling unit, under that person’s
control for an inspection pursuant to this chapter, the city may seek a court
order authorizing such inspections.
   (C)   Compliance and enforcement. Whenever the City Council determines that
any dwelling or dwelling unit fails to meet the provisions of this chapter, the
city may issue a compliance order setting forth the violations of the chapter
and ordering the owner, agent, operator or occupant to correct such violation.
This compliance order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Describe the location and nature of the violation.
      (3)   Establish a reasonable time for the corrections of such violation.
      (4)   Be served upon the owner, agent, operator, or occupant. Such notice
shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Served upon said owner, agent, operator or occupant; or
         (b)   Sent by mail to the last known address.
      (5)   Upon failure to effect the compliance order through (C)(4)(a)
above, said order will be posted at a conspicuous place in or about the
affected dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (D)   Inspections upon complaint. Any residential property within the city
is subject to investigation upon complaint by any citizen or city employee.
Complaints shall be investigated in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Complaints. All complaints shall be investigated within 72 hours of
receipt by the city to verify the existence of conditions in violation of this
chapter or any other applicable statute, ordinance, code or regulation.
      (2)   Confidentiality. The identities of any person filing a complaint
about violations of state law or local ordinance concerning the use of rental
property, and any information that would identify such person, is classified as
confidential under M.S. § 13.44. No employee shall release or reveal such
information except by court order.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007) Penalty, see §116.99(H)
§ 116.12 EMERGENCY CASES. 
   (A)   Declaration. Any dwelling or dwelling unit which is damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, infested or which lacks provision of
illumination, ventilation or sanitary facilities to the extent that the defects
create a hazard to the health, safety or general welfare of the occupants or to
the public, may be declared unfit for human habitation. Whenever any dwelling
or dwelling unit has been declared unfit for human habitation, the City Council
shall order same vacated within a reasonable time and shall post a placard on
same indicating that it is unfit for human habitation and any operating license
previously issued for such dwelling or dwelling units shall be revoked.
   (B)   Vacated dwelling. It shall be unlawful for a vacant dwelling or
dwelling unit, which has been declared unfit for human habitation as provided
above, to be used for human habitation until the defective conditions have been
corrected and written approval has been issued by the city. It shall be
unlawful for any person to deface or remove the declaration placard from any
such dwelling or dwelling units.
   (C)   Secure unfit and vacated dwellings. The owner of any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been declared unfit for human habitation, or which is
otherwise vacant for a period of 60 days or more, shall make same safe and
secure so that it is not hazardous to the health, safety or general welfare of
the public and a public nuisance within the meaning of this chapter.
   (D)   Hazardous building declaration.
      (1)   In the event that a dwelling or dwelling unit has been declared
unfit for human habitation and the owner has not remedied the defects within a
prescribed reasonable time, then it may be declared a hazardous building and
treated consistent with the provisions of Minnesota State Statutes.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall keep an itemized account of the expense
incurred by this jurisdiction in the repair or demolition of any building.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.13 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   State-licensed residential facility. State-licensed residential
facilities are allowed in all residential districts pursuant to Minnesota State
Statutes, as amended from time to time. The regulation of residential
occupancies in this section shall not apply to a state-licensed residential
facility.
   (B)   Residential occupancies. Residential occupancies of single- and 2-
family dwellings in the R-1 and R-2 zoning districts shall be limited to Family
(Functional) and Family (Traditional) as defined by this chapter. Family
(Functional) and Family (Traditional) may have 1 additional person residing
with them for non-rental purposes or for the purpose of providing a
housekeeping or personal service for the resident(s) therein.
      (1)   R-1 Single Family: 1 family per unit with 1 immediate family
member.
      (2)   R-2 2-Family: 1 family per unit with 1 immediate family member.
      (3)   Three-Family: 1 family per unit with 1 immediate family member or 5
(maximum) unrelated adults per building/living unit.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses. Residential rental properties not in compliance
with this chapter as of the effective date of the chapter may continue in the
nonconforming use, provided that if the property ceases to continue in the
nonconforming use for a period of 12 consecutive months, the right of
continuing nonconformity will end.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.14 PARKING.
   (A)   All new rental units licensed after the effective date of this chapter
shall provide off-street parking according to the following:
      (1)   One- and 2-family dwellings in R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts. For
rental units licensed after the effective date of this chapter, 2 off-street
parking stalls shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
      (2)   One- and 2-family dwellings in R-3 Zoning Districts. For rental
properties licensed after the effective date of this chapter, 1 off-street
parking stall shall be provided for each bedroom in a dwelling.
   (B)    Location and design of off-street parking. All new rental units
licensed after the effective date of this chapter shall provide required off-
street parking in conformance with the following:
      (1)   R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts. All required off-street parking
stalls shall be provided on the zoning lot occupied by the 1- or 2-family
dwellings.
      (2)   Off-street parking.  Spaces required for all non-1- and 2-family
dwellings shall be located on the same lot as the land use activity; provided,
however, that when 4 or more parking spaces are required, off-premises parking
may be provided on a lot located not more than 500 feet from the main building
of the use requiring said parking, provided that the off-premises parking lot
is held under the same ownership or leasehold interest as the zoning lot
occupied by the building or use to which the parking facilities are accessory.
      (3)   Private and public sidewalks, boulevards and other portions of the
public right-of-way shall not be used to satisfy off-street parking
requirements.
      (4)   For 1- and 2-family dwellings, all off-street parking stalls,
enclosed or unenclosed, shall have minimum dimensions of 8 feet x 18 feet,
exclusive of required drives and accesses.
      (5)   For a 1-family dwelling, the unenclosed parking space located
immediately adjacent to the entrance of a garage may be considered 1 off-street
parking space provided the space has a minimum dimension of 8 feet x 18 feet
and conforms to all other regulations. The enclosed garage space may also be
considered an off-street parking stall for the purpose of satisfying the
parking requirements, provided the enclosed parking space has a minimum
dimension of 8 feet x 18 feet.
        (6)   All newly constructed rental property(s) shall have their
driveways and parking surfaces hard-surfaced within 1 year after issuance of a
new rental license. Acceptable hard-surfacing does not include recycled asphalt
or recycled concrete. Failure to hard-surface within 1 year shall result in the
revocation of the rental license. Existing rental property(s) at the time of
this chapter’s adoption are required to provide adequately designed parking for
vehicular weight that is aesthetically appealing.
       (7)   Tandem parking. Notwithstanding any of the above or as otherwise
permitted in this chapter, tandem parking arrangements shall not be allowed in
order to satisfy the parking requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming off-street parking. Rental units in operation prior to
the adoption of this chapter shall be required to provide additional off-street
parking for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of this section, if
adequate off-street parking spaces are not presently provided for the
occupants. This requirement shall only apply to rental properties containing
yard areas that may be used for additional parking in conformance with the
location and design regulations of division (B) above.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A) Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this Code
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any crime
which is a misdemeanor under this Code, including Minnesota State Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to prevent, delay or provide false
information to any city officials or his or her representatives, while they are
engaging in the performance of their duties as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   In addition to bringing criminal charges for violation of this
chapter, the City of Madison Lake may seek a civil injunction against any
licensee or occupant who violate any terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
Code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (E)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
   (F)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this Code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (G)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this Code,
the Council, or any city official designated by Council, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
   (H)   The following penalties shall apply to §
116.11, Inspections:
      (1)   Penalty for retaliation. It is a misdemeanor for any person to take
retaliatory action against, harass or intimidate any person who makes a good-
faith complaint against real property within the city.
      (2)   Penalty of filing a false or malicious complaint. It shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to file a false or malicious complaint of violations
of state law or local ordinance concerning the use of real property.
      (3)   Penalties for failure to allow inspections. The City Council shall
establish administrative penalties for intentional failure without good cause;
to appear for scheduled rental inspections or re-inspections or for intentional
avoidance or delay in scheduling inspections when requested. Administrative
penalties may also be imposed for failure to correct code violations after
proper notice. Administrative fees shall be assessed in accordance with a
schedule approved by the City Council. Administrative penalties are in addition
to any criminal charges and/or fines.
   (I)   All applicants must include in any lease (written or oral) a copy of
this chapter and must further advise all tenants that a violation of this
chapter by the applicant/licensee (landlord) or any occupant of the premises
could result in termination or revocation of the rental license and immediate
eviction of all tenants.
(Ord. 236, passed 7-2-2007)
CHAPTER 117: VACATION RENTAL BY OWNER
Section
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Land use performance standards/general requirements and general
regulations
   
117.03   Licenses
   
117.04   Inspection/enforcement
   
117.05   Suspension and/or revocation of license
   
117.06   Revocation of licenses due to violations
 
   
117.99   Penalty for violation
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to allow and provide for the licensing,
inspection, and rental of short term vacation properties which consist of non-
traditional lodging for over-night stays on a daily or weekly basis of 30 days
or less of a private single-family dwelling, cabin, or condominium which
provides basic living accommodations including sleeping space, toilet, and
cooking space. This does not include bed and breakfasts, resorts, campgrounds,
or hotels/motels. Attached garages, and accessory structures including, but not
limited to, boat houses, detached garages, sheds, and/or barns are not
acceptable dwelling units.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.02 LAND USE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND GENERAL
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum capacity. No more than 3 occupants, excluding children under
age 3, per bedroom shall be allowed to stay on the property onsite over-night
(over-night being defined from sunset to sunrise). During the daytime hours, as
defined from sunrise to sunset, that maximum capacity shall be no more than 1.5
times the over-night capacity.
   (B)   A maximum of 1 rental unit per conforming dwelling lot of record. The
1 rental unit allowed must be the primary structure associated with the lot in
question and cannot be an outbuilding, camper, motor vehicle, recreational
vehicle, guest house, guest cottage, or any other structure. Variances from
this requirement can be requested as part of the licensing procedure and the
same shall be handled as a variance from the city's zoning code.
   (C)   Onsite parking only. Parking must be in designated parking spaces
only. This includes all motorized vehicles, fish houses, campers, and trailers.
There shall be 1 designated and dedicated parking space per bedroom. The number
and location of parking spaces must be included and clearly defined and
delineated on the VRBO license application. All parking spaces shall be a
minimum of 200 square feet and be on an impervious surface.
   (D)   Ice houses, fish houses, campers, recreational vehicles, all-terrain
vehicles, and golf carts must be placed in a designated parking spot. Such
items cannot be parked in the yard on the grass. All must be parked on an
impervious surface.
   (E)   Rentals of motorized watercraft and recreational vehicles are allowed
if they display a valid permit issued by the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
   (F)   Quiet hours. Quiet hours shall be from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. During
this time, excessive or loud noise is prohibited. Excessive or loud noise shall
be defined as unreasonably loud, boisterous, obscene, offensive, or abusive
language or noise as heard from a neighboring property to the licensed
property. It shall include, but not necessarily be limited to the following
types of conduct: shouting, yelling, playing loud music, unreasonably loud
conversation, or loud partying, all as heard from the neighboring property.
   (G)   Property lines shall be clearly marked with the applicant submitting a
map with clearly delineated property lines on the application.
   (H)   Fireworks shall be prohibited.
   (I)   Garbage and garbage removal. All garbage, refuse, or recycling shall
be stored completely enclosed in designated garbage containers. The property
shall be serviced for garbage removal by a professional removal company per the
City of Madison Lake Code of Ordinances. Per §
51.18 garbage cans are also to be removed from the boulevards by 7:00 p.m. on
the day of garbage pickup.
   (J)   Campfires. All campfires shall be confined to a 3 foot by 3 foot
maximum size. There shall be no unattended campfires. Campfires shall be in
designated areas only.
   (K)   Sewage.
      (1)   The property must have a fully operational and fully compliant
subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) or be connected to municipal
services.
      (2)   Holding tanks are prohibited.
      (3)   The property must follow and comply with Blue Earth County's
compliance inspection time parameters.
      (4)   The system must be properly sized for proper use.
      (5)   The SSTS must be kept in a constant state of compliance and under a
valid operating permit.
   (L)   The discharge of firearms, including CO2, pellet, or BB guns, is
prohibited.
   (M)   Pets shall be attended to and be leashed at all times.
   (N)   All properties must be registered and licensed by the City of Madison
Lake.
   (O)   The applicant for a license shall acquire and keep in full force and
effect for the duration of the permit, liability insurance in the minimum
amount of $1,000,000 that specifically covers use of the property as a VRBO and
provide evidence of coverage with permit application.
   (P)   All properties shall have a manager of the property who is capable of
effectively handling complaints and issues arising at the property. The rental
owner, operator, or manager shall designate a local contact on the license
application that meets the following requirements:
      (1)   Must be able to respond within 10 minutes via phone and within 30
minutes in person.
      (2)   Has administrative authority over the property and guests.
      (3)   Has knowledge of the vacation rental unit, the property, rental and
city rules, standards, and procedures, and effectively handles the same.
   (Q)   An operations guide shall be available within the premises and
provided to users of the property that includes the following information:
      (1)   Manager contact information;
      (2)   Maximum capacity;
      (3)   Parking restrictions;
      (4)   Quiet hours;
      (5)   Campfire information;
      (6)   Watercraft information;
      (7)   Rules of the rental;
      (8)   Emergency contacts (police, fire, hospital, city offices); and
      (9)   Boundary lines;
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, partnership,
or otherwise to operate a lodging establishment herein called for within the
city who does not possess a valid VRBO license.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring to operate a property or structure
thereon which consist of non-traditional lodging for over-night stays on a
daily or weekly basis of 30 days or less of a private single-family dwelling,
cabin, or condominium which provides basic living accommodations including
sleeping space, toilet, and cooking space shall first be licensed by the City
of Madison Lake. Any such person or entity shall apply for the license through
the City Administrator or the City Administrator's designee.
   (C)   Inspections: initial and annual inspection. The property shall
initially be inspected by a licensed building inspector and pass such
inspection. Inspections, and passage of the same, shall take place upon initial
grant of the license with an additional inspection each year thereafter.
   (D)   Licenses: renewal. Each license shall be good for 1 year. Licenses
shall be issued during the year and shall expire on December 31 of each and
every year. Automatic renewals do not occur. License renewal applications shall
be submitted to the city on forms provided by the city, with the renewal fee,
no later than 1 month proceeding the date of expiration.
   (E)   Renewal fee schedule. Initial and renewal license applications shall
be accompanied by the applicable fee. All license fees are non-refundable.
License fees shall be established in accordance with the city's fees schedule
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Licenses are non-transferable including change of ownership
situations.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.04 INSPECTION/ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall contract with a professional inspector to verify
compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   The establishment to be regulated hereunder shall fully comply with
the Minnesota State Building Code, State Fire Code, State Mechanical Code, City
of Madison Lake Code of Ordinances, City of Madison Lake Zoning Code, and the
terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The person operating an establishment shall, upon request of the city
or city's inspector, permit access to all parts of the establishment at any
reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting and shall exhibit and provide
such records necessary to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Any noted deficiencies noted by the inspector shall be remedied timely
as determined by the inspector.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.05 SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses may be suspended temporarily by the City Administrator, at
any time for failure of the license holder to comply with the terms and
requirements of this chapter. Notice of temporary suspension shall be mailed by
first class U.S. Mail to the address indicated on the license application. The
applicant shall be entitled to an opportunity for a hearing before the City
Council to address the temporary suspension. Said request for hearing shall be
filed with the City Administrator within 10 working days of the City
Administrator's notice of revocation. In the event that the time parameter set
forth herein is not complied with then the license holder shall be deemed to
have waived their right to a hearing on the suspension issue.
   (B)   Emergency closure. Whenever the city finds that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect public health, it may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of an emergency and
require that such action be taken as deemed necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, such order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom an emergency order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately.
      (1)   Emergency closure procedure. Emergency closure of an establishment
will be ordered if a prohibited activity is occurring or it is determined that
the establishment is an imminent health hazard.
      (2)   Following an emergency closure, the establishment shall not reopen
or allow others to be permitted to be on the site, without written permission
from the city.
      (3)   The city must give written permission to reopen upon submission of
satisfactory proof that the property condition(s) causing the need for
emergency closure have been corrected or removed by the operator(s).
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE DUE TO VIOLATIONS. 
   Upon an license holder's third conviction in 2 years for any violation of
the terms and conditions of this chapter or the terms and conditions of any
provision of the city's nuisance ordinances, the license shall be reviewed by
the City Council for possible revocation and upon a fourth violation in 2 years
it shall be automatically revoked by the City Council. Upon either situation,
the applicant shall be entitled to an opportunity for a hearing before the City
Council to address the revocation issue. Said request for hearing shall be
filed with the City Administrator within 10 working days of the City
Administrator's notice of revocation. In the event that the time parameter set
forth herein is not complied with then the license holder shall be deemed to
have waived their right to a hearing on the suspension issue.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
§ 117.99 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any violation of this chapter, by either the owner, tenant, occupant,
manager, or such other person having control over or being present at the
establishment is a misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 or
90 days imprisonment. The first offense shall be a scheduled fine of $250, the
second offense shall be a scheduled fine of $500 and the third offense shall be
a scheduled fine of $1,000.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed --2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disturbing the peace
   
130.02   Indecent conduct
   
130.03   Dangerous weapons
   
130.04   Loitering
   
130.05   Trespass
   
130.06   Curfew for minors
   
130.07   Social host liability
   
130.08   Use of tetrahydrocannabinol products in public places
§ 130.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   No person or persons shall make, and countenance or assist in making,
any noise, riot, or disturbance, nor shall any person or persons collect
together in bodies or crowds to the annoyance or disturbance of citizens or
travelers in the City of Madison Lake.
   (B)   Violation hereof shall be a penal offense and, as such, punishable as
set forth in §
10.99.
(1970 Code, § 605) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person nor persons shall appear in any street, alley, or public
place in the City of Madison Lake in a state of nudity or in any lewd or
indecent dress; and no person nor persons shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person nor be guilty of any indecent immoral or insulting conduct,
language, or behavior in the City of Madison Lake.
   (B)   Violation hereof shall be a penal offense and, as such, punishable as
set forth in §
10.99.
(1970 Code, § 615) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall go about the City of Madison Lake upon
public property, or property of another, carrying any dangerous weapon(s).
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS WEAPON. Any dirk, dagger, sword, knife with a blade longer than
8 inches measured from tip of blade to start of handle, gun, pistol, rifle,
(including BB guns and Pellet Guns) bow and arrow or any other dangerous
weapon.
   (C)   Transportation. Firearms which are unloaded and cased in a secured
case and bows that are unstrung may be carried from place to place and are not
in violation of this section. Ammunition will not be enclosed in the same case
as the firearm at the time of transportation.
   (D)   Exemptions. Peace officers in the performance of their lawful duties
and persons who possess a valid concealed weapons permit are exempted from this
section.
   (E)   Violations. Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor
offense.
   (F)   Effective date. This section becomes effective from and after its
passage and summary publication.
(Ord. 177, passed 8-16-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a NO LOITERING sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms, or other
bodily gestures. The violator's conduct must be such as to demonstrate a
specific intent to induce, entice, solicit, or procure another to commit an act
of prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this division
unless the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain
his or her conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this division if
it appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 TRESPASS.
   (A)   This section is to provide an avenue in which to prohibit trespass
upon the property of another without permission of the landowner, tenant,
property agent, and/or property representative.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally trespass on the property of another and,
without claim of right, refuse to depart from the premises on demand of the
lawful possessor or agent of possessor.
   (C)   No person shall return or remain on the property of another after
being told to leave the property and not return.
   (D)   No person shall return to the property of another within 12 months
after having been served with a trespass notice.
   (E)   The legal possessor of the property shall keep a copy of all trespass
notices which they serve upon trespassers and shall renew notices as needed for
no more than 12 months at a time.
   (F)   An person or person violating any provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   This section shall be effective upon its passage and publication in
summary form.
(Ord. 185, passed 6-6-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for 4 primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless 1 of
the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   Minor defense.  A law enforcement officer must look into whether a
minor has an affirmative defense before making an arrest.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 SOCIAL HOST LIABILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and which contains
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
      EVENT OR GATHERING. Any group of 3 or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for social occasion or other activity.
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit an event or gathering.
      PARENT. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of 1 or more individuals.
      RESIDENCE OR PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering;
         (b)   At any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property;
         (c)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
         (d)   When the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person will or does:
            1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
         (e)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (B)(1)
above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires
with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licenses, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, Subdivision 1(a)(1).
   (D)   Violation; penalty. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any
provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. See §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 USE OF TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES
   (A)   There shall be no public consumption of cannabinoids, cannabinoid
products, products having a cannabinoid profile, products having a cannabis
concentrate, intoxicating cannabinoids, synthetic cannabinoids, or
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) products, as those products are defined in Ch. 68,
M.S. § 342.01, as amended from time to time, in the City of Madison Lake at the
following locations:
      (1)   Any city-owned or city-leased property including the grounds,
parking lot, or structures thereon;
      (2)   City Hall;
      (3)   City's Public Works Building;
      (4)   Fire hall;
      (5)   Police station;
      (6)   Any park;
      (7)   Any beach;
      (8)   Any playground;
      (9)   Any ballfield;
      (10)   Any concession stand;
      (11)   School grounds;
      (12)   Library grounds;
      (13)   Any sidewalk or street;
      (14)   Any parking lot;
      (15)   Any cemetery;
      (16)   Any festival or farmers market;
      (17)   Any trail that is open to the public, including, but not limited
to the Sakatah Singing Hills Trail;
      (18)   Any place where smoking is prohibited by law; or
      (19)   Any other place where the public is invited to gather.
   (B)   Low-potency hemp-derived edible products. This section shall not apply
to those low-potency hemp-derived edible products which were legalized as part
of legislation in 2022. Low-potency hemp-derived edible products shall be
defined as set forth in M.S. § 342.01, Subdivision 50, as it is amended from
time to time.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of $290.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 9-18-2023)
 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREAS
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Sump pump requirements
 
Uniform Housing Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Scope
   
150.18   Application to existing buildings or structures
   
150.19   Enforcement
   
150.20   Permits and inspections
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Space and occupancy standards
   
150.23   Structural requirements
   
150.24   Mechanical requirements
   
150.25   Exits
   
150.26   Fire protection
   
150.27   Substandard buildings
   
150.28   [Reserved]
   
150.29   Administration
   
150.30   Compliance and enforcement
   
150.31   Emergency cases
   
150.32   Execution of compliance orders by public authority
   
150.33   Right of appeal
   
150.34   Transfer of ownership
   
150.35   Effective date
 
Storm Sewer Improvement District
   
150.50   Establishment of District
   
150.51   Description of Storm Sewer Improvement District
   
150.52   Authority
   
150.53   Issuance of bonds to finance Storm Sewer Improvement District
   
150.54   Procedures
   
150.55   Taxes
   
150.56   Dissolution of the District
   
150.57   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   For further information on uniform housing codes, see §§
116.01 et seq.
   Structure identification requirements, see §
90.002
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to
16B.75, as may be amended from time to time, including all of the amendments,
rules and regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by
the Minnesota Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes and
Standards Division, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this section. The Minnesota
State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out
herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration, and enforcement of the code shall be in accordance with the
Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, Subdivision 1, as may be
amended from time to time, when so established by this section. The code
enforcement agency of this municipality is called the Department of Building
Safety. This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by the City Council to administer the code (M.S. § 16B.65,
Subdivision 1, as may be amended from time to time).
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, Subdivision 1, as may be amended from
time to time. Permits fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City of Madison Lake in
Resolution 2009-418. In addition, a Minnesota State Surcharge Fee shall be
collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance
with M.S. § 16B.70, as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor
(M.S. § 16B.69, as may be amended from time to time).
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters. The Minnesota State Building Code,
established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to 16B.75, as may be amended from time
to time, allows the City of Madison Lake to adopt by reference and enforce
certain optional chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota State
Building Code. The City of Madison Lake has elected against adoption and
enforcement of optional chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota
State Building Code.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 4-6-2009)
§ 150.02 SUMP PUMP REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction of homes requiring sumps pumps will be hooked up to storm
sewer drains constructed in the street, if available, by a certified
contractor, with a minimum of 2 inches Schedule #40 PVC drain pipe, to a grade
for drainage to prevent freezing, preferably 1/4 inch per foot grade. A
certified statement of compliance will be signed by the contractor.
(Ord. 209, passed 4-28-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
UNIFORM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.15 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the Uniform Housing Code, may be cited
as such, and will be referred to herein as this subchapter.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.16 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards to
safeguard life or limb, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and
controlling the use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of all residential
buildings and structures within this jurisdiction.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is not to create or otherwise establish
or designate any particular class or group of persons who will or should be
especially protected or benefitted by the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.17 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all buildings or
portions thereof used, or designed or intended to be used, for human
habitation. The occupancies in existing buildings may be continued as provided
in § 104(c) of the Building Code, except the structures as are found to be
substandard as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Where any building or portion thereof is used or intended to be used
as a combination apartment house-hotel, the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply to the separate portions as if they were separate buildings.
   (C)   Every rooming house or lodging house shall comply with all the
requirements of this subchapter for dwellings.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.18 APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Additions; alterations; repairs. For additions, alterations, or
repairs, see subsections of the Building Code.
   (B)   Relocation. Buildings or structures moved into or within this
jurisdiction shall comply with the requirements of the Building Code for new
buildings and structures.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Authority. The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. For those purposes, he or she
shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this subchapter, or whenever the Building Official or
his or her authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any condition or code violation
which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the
Building Official or his or her authorized representative may enter the
building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform
any duty imposed upon the Building Official by this subchapter, provided that
if the building or premises be occupied, he or she shall first present proper
credentials and request entry; and if the building or premises be unoccupied,
he or she shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If the entry is refused, the Building Official or his or her authorized
representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
entry.
   (C)   Responsibilities defined.
      (1)   Every owner remains liable for violations of duties imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter even though an obligation is also imposed on the
occupants of his or her building, and even though the owner has, by agreement,
imposed on the occupant the duty of furnishing required equipment or of
complying with this subchapter.
      (2)   All buildings and structures and all parts thereof shalt be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition. The owner or his or her designated
agent shall be responsible for the maintenance. To determine compliance with
this division (C), the building may be reinspected.
      (3)   Every owner, or his or her agent, in addition to being responsible
for maintaining his or her building in a sound structural condition, shall be
responsible for keeping that part of the building or premises which he or she
occupies or controls in a clean, sanitary and safe condition, including the
shared or public areas in a building containing 2 or more dwelling units.
      (4)   Every owner shall, where required by this subchapter, the health
ordinance, or the Health Officer, furnish and maintain the approved sanitary
facilities as required, and shall furnish and maintain approved devices,
equipment, or facilities for the presentation of insect and rodent infestation,
and where infestation has taken place, shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests when the extermination is
not specifically made the responsibility of the occupant by law or ruling.
      (5)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit, in addition to being responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition that part of the dwelling
or dwelling unit or premises which he or she occupies and controls, shall
dispose of all his or her rubbish, garbage, and other organic waste in a manner
required by the health ordinance and approved by the Health Officer.
      (6)   Every occupant shall, where required by this subchapter, the health
ordinance or the Health Officer, furnish and maintain approved devices,
equipment, or facilities necessary to keep this premises safe and sanitary.
   (D)   Substandard buildings. All buildings or portions thereof which are
determined to be substandard as defined in this subchapter are hereby declared
to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedures specified in this
subchapter.
   (E)   Housing Advisory and Appeals Board. In order to hear and decide
appeals of orders, decisions, or determinations made by the Building Official
relative to the application and interpretations of this subchapter, the City
Council, or designated committee, shall act as a Housing Advisory and Appeals
Board. The Building Official shall be an ex officio member at the hearings.
Appeals to the City Council shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions contained in this subchapter. Copies of all rules of procedures
adopted by the board shall be delivered to the Building Official, who shall
make them public.
   (F)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure or cause or
permit the same to be done in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.20 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No building or structure regulated by this subchapter shall
be erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed,
converted, or demolished unless a separate permit for each building or
structure has first been obtained from the Building Official in the manner and
according to the applicable conditions prescribed in Chapter 3 of the Building
Code.
   (B)   Fees. Whenever a building permit required by division (A) above, the
appropriate fees shall be paid to the Building Official as specified in § 304
of the Building Code.
   (C)   Inspection. All buildings or structures within the scope of this
subchapter and all construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the Building Official in accordance with and in the
manner provided by this subchapter and §§ 305 and 306 of the Building Code.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, certain terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in either this subchapter or as
specified in the Building Code. Where terms are not defined, they shall have
their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used.
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary of the English Language,
Unabridged, copyright 1981, shall be considered as providing ordinary accepted
meanings. Words in the singular include the plural and the plural the singular.
Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the
masculine.
   BUILDING CODE. The Uniform Building Code promulgated by the International
Conference of Building Officials, as adopted by this jurisdiction.
   EFFICIENCY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit, containing only 1 habitable room
and meeting the requirements of § 150.22.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated head of the Department of Health of
this jurisdiction.
   HOT WATER. Hot water supplied to plumbing fixtures at a temperature of not
less than 110°F.
   MECHANICAL CODE. The Uniform Mechanical Code promulgated jointly by the
International Conference of Building Officials and the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, as adopted by this
jurisdiction.
   NUISANCE. The following shall be defined as nuisances:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence;
      (2)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, on the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied
lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements, or excavations;
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences
or structures; or any lumber, trash, fences, debris, or vegetation which may
prove a hazard for inquisitive minors;
      (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health, as
determined by the Health Officer;
      (4)   Overcrowding a room with occupants;
      (5)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination;
      (6)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities; and/or
      (7)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the Health Officer.
   PLUMBING CODE. The Uniform Plumbing Code promulgated by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.22 SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Location on property. All buildings shall be located with respect to
property lines and to other buildings on the same property as required by §
14.504 and Part IV of the Building Code.
   (B)   Yards and courts.
      (1)   Scope. This section shall apply to yards and courts having required
windows opening therein.
      (2)   Yards. Every yard shall be not less than 3 feet in width for 1-
story and 2-story buildings. For buildings more than 2 stories in height, the
minimum width of the yard shall be increased at the rate of 1 foot for each
additional story. Where yards completely surround the building, the required
width may be reduced by 1 foot. For buildings exceeding 14 stories in height,
the required width of yard shall be computed on the basis of 14 stories.
      (3)   Courts.
         (a)   Every court shall be not less than 3 feet in width. Courts
having windows opening on opposite sides shall be not less than 6 feet in
width. Courts bounded on 3 or more sides by the walls of the building shall be
not less than 10 feet in length unless bounded on 1 end by a public way or
yard. For buildings more than 2 stories in height, the court shall be increased
1 foot in width and 2 feet in length for each additional story. For buildings
exceeding 14 stories in height, the required dimensions shall be computed on
the basis of 14 stories.
         (b)   Adequate access shall be provided to the bottom of all courts
for cleaning purposes. Every court more than 2 stories in height shall be
provided with a horizontal air intake at the bottom not less than 10 square
feet in area and leading to the exterior of the building unless abutting a yard
or public way. The construction of air intake shall be as required for the
court walls of the building, but in no case shall be less than 1-hour fire-
resistive.
   (C)   Room dimensions.
      (1)   Ceiling heights. Habitable space shall have a ceiling height of not
less than 7 feet 6 inches except as otherwise permitted in this section.
Kitchens, halls, bathrooms, and toilet compartments may have a ceiling height
of not less than 7 feet measured to the lowest projection from the ceiling.
Where exposed beam ceiling members are spaced at less than 48 inches on center,
ceiling height shall be measured to the bottom of these members. Where exposed
beam ceiling members are spaced at 48 inches or more on center, ceiling height
shall be measured to the bottom of the deck supported by these members,
provided that the bottom of the members is not less than 7 feet above the
floor. If any room in a building has a sloping ceiling, the prescribed ceiling
height for the room is required in only 1/2 the area thereof. No portion of the
room measuring less than 5 feet from the finished floor to the finished ceiling
shall be included in any computation of the minimum area thereof. If any room
has a furred ceiling, the prescribed ceiling height is required in 2/3 the area
thereof, but in no case shall the height of the furred ceiling be less than 7
feet.
      (2)   Floor area. Every dwelling unit shall have at least 1 room which
shall have not less than 120 square feet of floor area. Other habitable rooms,
except kitchens, shall have an area of not less than 70 square feet. Where more
than 2 persons occupy a room used for sleeping purposes, the required floor
area shall be increased at the rate of 50 square feet for each occupant in
excess of 2. Nothing in this division (C)(2) shall prohibit the use of an
efficiency living unit within an apartment house meeting the following
requirements.
         (a)   The unit shall have a living room of not less than 220 square
feet of superficial floor area. An additional 100 square feet of superficial
floor area shall be provided for each occupant of the unit in excess of 2.
         (b)   The unit shall be provided with a separate closet.
         (c)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking
appliance, and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of
not less than 30 inches in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this
subchapter shall be provided.
         (d)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower.
      (3)   Width. No habitable room other than a kitchen shall be less than 7
feet in any dimension.
Each water closet stool shall be located in a clear space of not less than 30
inches in width and a clear space in front of the water closet stool of not
less than 24 inches shall be provided.
   (D)   Light and ventilation.
      (1)   Natural light and ventilation.
         (a)   All guest rooms, dormitories, and habitable rooms within a
dwelling unit shall be provided with natural light by means of exterior glazed
openings with an area not less than 1/10 of the floor area of the rooms with a
minimum of 10 square feet. All bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundry
rooms, and similar rooms shall be provided with natural ventilation by means of
openable exterior openings with an area not less than 1/20 of the floor area of
the rooms with a minimum of 1 and 1/2 square feet.
         (b)   All guest rooms, dormitories and habitable rooms within a
dwelling unit shall be provided with natural ventilation by means of openable
exterior openings with an area of not less than 1/20 of the floor area of the
rooms with a minimum of 5 square feet.
      (2)   Origin of light and ventilation.
         (a)   Required exterior openings for natural light and ventilation
shall open directly onto a street or public alley or a yard or court, located
on the same lot as the building.
         (b)   Required windows may open into a roofed porch where the porch:
            1.   Abuts a street, yard, or court;
            2.   Has a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet; and
            3.   Has the longer side of least 65% open and unobstructed.
         (c)   A required window in a service room may open into a vent shaft
which is open and unobstructed to the sky and not less than 4 feet in least
dimension. No vent shaft shall extend throughout more than 2 stories.
         (d)   For the purpose of determining light and ventilation
requirements, any room may be considered as a portion of an adjoining room when
1/2 of the area of the common wall is open and unobstructed and provides an
opening of not less than 1/10 of the floor area of the interior room or 25
square feet, whichever greater.
      (3)   Mechanical ventilation. In lieu of required exterior openings for
natural ventilation, a mechanical ventilation system may be provided. The
system shall be capable of providing 2 air changes per hour in all guest rooms,
dormitories, habitable rooms, and in public corridors. One fifth of the air
supply shall be taken from the outside. In bathrooms containing a bathtub or
shower or combination thereof, laundry rooms, and similar rooms, a mechanical
ventilation system shall be provided. The point of discharge of exhaust air
shall be at least 5 feet from any mechanical ventilating intake. Bathrooms
which contain only a water closet or lavatory or combination thereof, and
similar rooms may be ventilated with unapproved mechanical recirculating fan or
similar device designed to remove odors from the air.
      (4)   Hallways. All public hallways, stairs, and other exitways shall be
adequately lighted at all times in accordance with § 3312(a) of the Building
Code.
   (E)   Sanitation.
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging houses. Every dwelling unit and every
lodging house shall be provided with a bathroom equipped with facilities
consisting of a water closet, lavatory, and either a bathtub or shower.
      (2)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories, and baths are not
provided, there shall be provided on each floor for each sex at least 1 water
closet and lavatory and 1 bath accessible from a public hallway. Additional
water closets, lavatories, and baths shall be provided on each floor for each
sex at the rate of 1 for every additional 10 guests, or fractional number
thereof in excess of 10. The facilities shall be clearly marked for MEN or
WOMEN.
      (3)   Kitchen. Each dwelling unit shall be provided with a kitchen. Every
kitchen shall be provided with a kitchen sink. Wooden sinks or sinks of
similarly absorbent material shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Fixtures. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to a sanitary
sewer. All plumbing fixtures shall be connected to an approved system of water
supply and provided with hot and cold running water necessary for its normal
operation. All plumbing fixtures shall be of an approved glazed earthenware
type or of a similarly nonabsorbent material.
      (5)   Water closet compartments. Walls and floors of water closet
compartments, except in dwellings, shall be finished in accordance with §
214.511 of the Building Code.
      (6)   Room separations. Every water closet, bathtub, or shower required
by this subchapter shall be installed in a room which will afford privacy to
the occupant. A room in which a water closet is located shall be separated from
food preparation or storage rooms by a tight fitting door.
      (7)   Installation and maintenance. All sanitary facilities shall be
installed and maintained in safe and sanitary condition and in accordance with
applicable requirements of the Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.23 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Buildings or structures, may be of any type of construction
permitted by the Building Code. Roofs, floors, walls, foundations, and all
other structural components of buildings shall be capable of resisting any and
all forces and loads to which they may be subjected. All structural elements
shall be proportioned and joined in accordance with the street limitations and
design criteria as specified in the appropriate sections of the Building Code.
Buildings of every permitted type of construction shall comply with the
applicable requirements of the Building Code.
   (B)   Shelter. Every building shall be weather protected so as to provide
shelter for the occupants against the elements and to exclude dampness.
   (C)   Protection of materials. All wood shall be protected against termite
damage and decay as provided in the Building Code.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.24 MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Heating. Every dwelling unit and guest room shall be provided with
heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 70°F at a point
3 feet above the floor in all habitable rooms. The facilities shall be
installed and maintained in a safe condition and in accordance with Chapter 37
of the Building Code, the Mechanical Code, and all other applicable laws.
(Invented fuel -burning heaters shall not be permitted.) All heating devices or
appliances shall be of an approved type.
   (B)   Electrical equipment. All electrical equipment, wiring, and appliances
shall be installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all
applicable laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type. Where
there is electrical power available within 300 feet of any building, the
building shall be connected to the electrical power. Every habitable room shall
contain at least 2 electrical convenience outlets or 1 convenience outlet and 1
electrical convenience outlet and 1 electric light fixture. Every water closet
compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room, and public hallway shall
contain at least 1 electric light fixture.
   (C)   Ventilation. Ventilation for rooms and areas and for fuel burning
appliances shall be provided as required in the Mechanical Code and in this
subchapter. Where mechanical ventilation is provided in lieu of the natural
ventilation required by §
150.22(D), the mechanical ventilating system shall be maintained in operation
during the occupancy of any building or portion thereof.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.25 EXITS.
   Every dwelling unit or guest room shall have access directly to the outside
or to a public corridor. All buildings or portions thereof shall be provided
with exits, exitways, and appurtenances as required by Chapter 33 of the
Building Code. Basements in dwelling units and every sleeping room below the
fourth story shall have at least 1 operable window or exterior door approved
for emergency escape or rescue. The units shall be operable from the inside to
provide a full clear opening without the use of separate tools.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.26 FIRE PROTECTION.
   All buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with the degree of fire
resistive construction as required by the Building Code for the appropriate
occupancy, type of construction, and location on property; and shall be
provided with the appropriate fire extinguishing systems or equipment required
by Chapter 38 of the Building Code.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.27 SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally. Any building or portion thereof which is determined to be
an unsafe building in accordance with § 203 of the Building Code; or any
building or portion thereof, including arty dwelling unit, guest room or suite
of rooms, or the premises on which the same is located, in which there exists
any of the following listed conditions to an extent that endangers the life,
limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
thereof shall be deemed and hereby is declared to be a substandard building.
   (B)   Inadequate sanitation. Inadequate sanitation shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Lack of, or improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub, or shower and
dwelling unit or lodging house;
      (2)   Lack of, or improper water closets, lavatories, and bathtubs or
showers per number of guests in a hotel;
      (3)   Lack of, or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit;
      (4)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel;
      (5)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a
dwelling unit of lodging house;
      (6)   Lack of adequate heating facilities;
      (7)   Lack of, or improper operation of, required ventilating equipment;
      (8)   Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required
by this subchapter;
      (9)   Room and space dimensions less than required by this subchapter;
      (10)   Lack of required electrical lighting;
      (11)   Dampness of habitable rooms;
      (12)   Infestation of insects, vermin, or rodents as determined by the
Health Officer;
      (13)   General dilapidations or improper maintenance;
      (14)   Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system; and
      (15)   Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities as determined by Health Officer.
   (C)   Structural hazards. Structural hazards shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundations;
      (2)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports;
      (3)   Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
loads with safety;
      (4)   Members of walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that
split, lean, list, or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
      (5)   Members of walls, partitions, or other vertical supports that are
of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
      (6)   Members ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members which sag, split, or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration;
      (7)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with
safety;
      (8)   Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge, or settle, due to
defective material or deterioration; and
      (9)   Fireplaces or chimneys which are in insufficient size or strength
to carry imposed loads with safety.
   (D)   Nuisance. Any nuisance as defined in this subchapter.
   (E)   Hazardous electrical wiring. Electrical wiring which was installed in
violation of code requirements in effect at the time of installation or
electrical wiring not installed in accordance with generally accepted
construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which has not
been maintained in good condition or which is not being used in a safe manner
shall be considered substandard.
   (F)   Hazardous plumbing. Plumbing which was installed in violation of code
requirements in effect at the time of installation or plumbing not installed in
accordance with generally accepted construction practices in areas where no
codes were in effect or which has not maintained in good condition or which is
not free of cross-connections or siphonage between fixture shall be considered
substandard.
   (G)   Hazardous mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment which was
installed in violation of code requirements in effect at the time of
installation or mechanical equipment not installed in accordance with generally
accepted construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which
has not been maintained in good and safe condition shall be considered
substandard.
   (H)   Faulty weather protection. Which shall include but not be limited to
the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated, crumbling, or loose plaster;
      (2)   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof,
foundations, or floors, including broken windows or doors;
      (3)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall covering,
including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other approved
protective covering; and
      (4)   Broken, rotted, split, or buckled exterior wall covering or roof
covering.
   (I)   Fire hazard. Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus,
equipment, combustible waste, or vegetation which, in the opinion of the chief
of the Fire Department or his or her deputy, is in such a condition as to cause
a fire or explosion or provide ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity
of fire or explosion arising from any cause.
   (J)   Faulty materials of construction. All materials of construction except
those which are specifically allowed or approved by this subchapter and the
Building Code, and which have been adequately maintained in good and safe
condition.
   (K)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises. Those premises on which an
accumulation of weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage,
offal, rat harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials and similar
materials or conditions constitute fire, health, or safety hazards.
   (L)   Inadequate exits. Except for those buildings or portions thereof which
have been provided with adequate exit facilities conforming to the provisions
of this subchapter, buildings or portions thereof whose exit facilities were
installed in violation of code requirements in effect at the time of their
construction or whose exit facilities have not been increased in number or
width in relation to any increase in occupant load due to alterations,
additions, or change in use or occupancy subsequent to the time of construction
shall be considered substandard. Notwithstanding compliance with code
requirements in effect at the time of their construction, buildings or portions
thereof shall be considered substandard when the Building Official finds that
an unsafe condition exists through an improper location of exits, a lack of an
adequate number or width of exit, or where other conditions exist which are
dangerous to human life.
   (M)   Inadequate fire projection or firefighting equipment. All buildings or
portions thereof which are not provided with the fire resistive construction or
fire extinguishing systems or equipment required by this subchapter, except
those buildings or portions thereof which conformed with all applicable laws at
the time of their construction and whose fire resistive integrity and fire
extinguishing systems or equipment have been adequately maintained and improved
in relation to any increase in occupancy load, alteration, or addition, or any
change in occupancy.
   (N)   Improper occupancy. All buildings or portions thereof occupied for
living, sleeping, cooking, or dining purposes which were not designed or
intended to be used for the occupancies.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.28 [RESERVED]
§ 150.29 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. The City Clerk-Treasurer and/or his or her designated agent
shall administer the provisions this subchapter and are hereby authorized to
cause inspections on a scheduled basis and/or when reason exists to believe
that a violation of this subchapter has been or is being committed.
   (B)   Authority. When the City Council determined that a violation exists, a
written evaluation of deficiencies shall be considered prima facie evidence in
any subsequent litigation of a violation under this subchapter.
   (C)   Inspection access. If any owner, agent, operator, occupant, or other
person in charge of a dwelling or dwelling unit fails or refuses to permit free
access and entry to the dwelling or dwelling unit, under that persons control
for an inspection pursuant to this subchapter, the city may seek a court order
authorizing the inspection.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.30 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council determines that any dwelling or dwelling
unit fails to meet the provisions of this subchapter, the city may issue a
compliance order setting forth the violations of the subchapter and ordering
the owner, agent, operator, or occupant to correct the violations. This
compliance order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describe the location and nature of the violations of this
subchapter;
      (3)   Establish a reasonable time for the corrections of the violation;
and
      (4)   Be served upon the owner, agent, operator, or occupant; the notice
shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Served upon the owner, agent, operator, occupant;
         (b)   Sent by mail to the last known address; or
         (c)   Upon failure to effect the compliance order through divisions
(A)(4)(a) or (A)(4)(b) above, the order will be posted at a conspicuous place
in or about the affected dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (B)   Failure to meet the requirements of the compliance order is a
violation of this subchapter and a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.31 EMERGENCY CASES.
   (A)   Declaration. Any dwelling or dwelling unit, which is damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, infested, or which lacks provision for
illumination, ventilation, or sanitary facilities to the extent that the
defects create a hazard to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
occupants or to the public, may be declared unfit for human habitation.
Whenever any dwelling or dwelling unit has been declared unfit for human
habitation, the City Council shall order same vacated within a reasonable time
and shall post a placard on same indicating that it is unfit for human
habitation and any operating license previously issued for the dwelling or
dwelling units shall be revoked.
   (B)   Vacated dwelling. It shall be unlawful for a vacant dwelling or
dwelling unit, which has been declared unfit for human habitation as provided
above, to be used for human habitation until the defective conditions have been
corrected and written approval has been issued by the city. It shall be
unlawful for any person to deface or remove the declaration placard from any
such dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (C)   Secure unfit and vacated dwellings. The owner of any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been declared unfit for human habitation, or which is
otherwise vacant for a period of 60 days or more, shall make same safe and
secure so that it is not hazardous to the health, safety, or general welfare of
the public and a public nuisance within the meaning of this subchapter.
   (D)   Hazardous building declaration.
      (1)   In the event that a dwelling or dwelling unit has been declared
unfit for human habitation and the owner has not remedied the defects within a
prescribed reasonable time, then it may be declared a hazardous building and
treated consistent with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes.
      (2)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep an itemized account of the
expense incurred by this jurisdiction in the repair or demolition of any
building done pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter. Upon the
completion of the work of repair or demolition, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
prepare the itemized and total cost of the work, a description of the real
property upon which the building or structure was located, and the names and
addresses of the persons entitled to notice.
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall present it to the City Council of
the City of Madison Lake for consideration. The City Council shall fix a time,
date, and place for hearing the report, and any protests or objections.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.32 EXECUTION OF COMPLIANCE ORDERS BY PUBLIC AUTHORITY.
   Upon failure to comply with a compliance order within the time set and no
appeal having been taken, the City Council may, by resolution, cause the cited
deficiency to be remedied as set forth in the compliance order. The cost of the
remedy shall be placed against the subject property and may be levied and
collected as a special assessment in the manner provided by M.S. Chapter 429,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.33 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   When it is alleged by any person to whom a compliance order is directed that
the compliance order is based upon erroneous interpretation of this subchapter,
the person may appeal the compliance order to the City Council. The filing of
an appeal shall stay all proceedings, unless such a stay would cause imminent,
peril to life, health, safety, or property.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.34 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Anyone securing an interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit which has
received a violation tag or compliance order shall be bound by same without
further service of notice and shall be liable to all penalties and procedures
by this subchapter.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
§ 150.35 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon its passage and publication in
summary form.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-11-1989)
STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
§ 150.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   The City Council of the City of Madison Lake may, acting pursuant to M.S. §§
444.17 through 444.21, Chapter 206 Laws of 1974, as they may be amended from
time to time, establish within the corporate limits of Madison Lake storm sewer
improvement tax districts. The action of the Council to establish the districts
shall be the initial creation thereof, pursuant to §
150.51, and by subsequent amendments to that section. A 2/3 vote of all of the
members of the Council shall be required for the purpose of establishing all of
the storm sewer improvement districts, and no such districts shall be created
by the Council until the Council shall call and hold a public hearing with
respect to any such proposed storm sewer improvement district in the manner
provided for by the Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.51 DESCRIPTION OF STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   The territory or area within the City of Madison Lake, Minnesota, to be
included within the district is described as follows: All land within the
present corporate limits together with all lands included in future annexations
to the City of Madison Lake, County of Blue Earth, and State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.52 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council shall acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, maintain,
and otherwise improve storm sewer systems and related facilities within the
district or districts set forth in §
150.51, and in addition thereto may acquire, construct, maintain, and improve
for the benefit of any such district or districts storm water holding areas and
ponds within and without the corporate limits of the City of Madison Lake.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.53 ISSUANCE OF BONDS TO FINANCE STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   At any time after a contract for the construction of all or a part of an
improvement as specified above has been entered into or the work with respect
to the same has been ordered done by day labor, the City Council for the City
of Madison Lake may issue obligations in the amount as it deems necessary to
defray in whole or in part the expense incurred and estimated to be incurred in
making improvements including every item of costs from inception to completion
and all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the improvement or the
financing of the same. The obligations shall be payable primarily out of the
proceeds of the tax levied pursuant to this subchapter, as provided for by
Minnesota Statutes; however, in addition, the Council may by resolution adopted
prior to the sale of the obligations pledge the full faith, credit, and taxing
power of the City of Madison Lake to assure payment of the principal and
interest in the event the proceeds of the above referenced tax levy are
insufficient to pay the principal and interest.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.54 PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the City Council for the City of Madison Lake determines to make an
improvement pursuant to this subchapter it shall follow the procedures dictated
by Minnesota Statutes and all obligations of the city arising as a result
hereof shall be issued in accordance with and have the legal effect and status
as provided for in Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.55 TAXES.
   The City Council may levy on all taxable property within the district or
districts provided for in this subchapter as may be necessary to finance the
cost of the improvements as provided for herein, including maintenance, and to
pay the principal and interest on obligations issued pursuant to §
150.53. The taxes shall be collected and paid over in the same manner as other
taxes collected by and paid to the city, but shall be spread only upon the
property described in §
150.51 as the same may be from time to time amended hereafter. Likewise the
taxes shall be disbursed by the City Council only for the benefit of the
district or districts established under this subchapter and included and
described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.56 DISSOLUTION OF THE DISTRICT.
   Upon the retirement of all obligations issued to finance improvements within
the district or districts set forth in §
150.51, any such district or districts may be dissolved by following the
procedures for establishment of the district as provided for in this subchapter
and by the appropriate and pertinent Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
§ 150.57 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after the
date of its passage and publication by law, and when its adoption has thus been
completed a certified copy hereof, and of all subsequent amendments hereto,
shall be filed with the Blue Earth County Auditor, the Blue Earth County
Recorder.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-4-1982)
CHAPTER 151: RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREAS
Section
Recreational Camping Area Regulations
   
151.01   Recreational camping area requirements
   
151.02   Landscaping and environmental requirements
   
151.03   Utilities and service facilities
   
151.04   Site plan requirements
 
RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA REGULATIONS
§ 151.01 RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Density and area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum area requirement for a recreational camping area shall be
10 acres.
      (2)   Minimum site size of 2,000 square feet shall be provided for each
recreational camping vehicle in camping area.
   (B)   Setback and spacing requirements.
      (1)   All recreational camping vehicles shall be located at least 25 feet
from any camping area property boundary line abutting upon a public street or
highway right-of-way and at least 10 feet from other park property boundary
lines.
      (2)   All recreational camping vehicles shall be separated from each
other and from other structures by at least 10 feet. Any accessory structure
such as attached awnings, carports, or individual storage facilities, shall,
for the purpose of this separation requirement, be considered to be part of the
recreational camping vehicle.
(1970 Code, § 216.46D) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 LANDSCAPING AND ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All recreational camping areas shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Each site shall be landscaped with trees, shrubbery, hedges, grass,
and/or appropriate fencing.
   (B)   Soil conditions, groundwater level, drainage, and topography shall not
create hazards to the property or health and safety of the occupants. The site
should not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse
influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/or sudden flooding.
   (C)   Soil and exposed ground surfaces shall be paved or covered with stone,
screenings, or other solid material or protected with a vegetative growth that
is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (D)   The ground surface shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface
water in a safe, efficient manner. No waste water from recreational camping
vehicles shall be deposited on the surface of the ground.
   (E)   In all recreational camping areas, at least 5% of the land area shall
be developed for recreational use (tennis courts, play areas, swimming, and the
like) and maintained at the owner/operator’s expense.
(1970 Code, § 216.46D) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 UTILITIES AND SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each recreational camping area shall be served by a municipal sewage
system, which is being operated under a permit issued by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency, whenever such a system is available. Whenever such a
system is not available, a community sewage system acceptable to the State
Board of Health and conforms to the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s
Chapter 7080 rules shall be provided.
   (B)   Each recreational camping area shall be served by a municipal water
supply system, whenever such a system is available. Whenever such a system is
not available, a community water supply system approved by the State Board of
Health shall be provided.
   (C)   All installations for disposal of surface storm where in recreational
camping areas shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   All utilities in recreational camping areas shall be underground;
there shall be no overhead wires or supporting poles except those essential for
street or other lighting purposes.
   (E)   Each recreational campground shall provide a building which is
structurally suitable to serve as a storm shelter with sufficient space to
accommodate all of its residents. The building may also supply office, laundry,
and recreation facilities.
(1970 Code, § 216.46D) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   Applications for a conditional use permit to establish or expand either a
recreational camping area shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator, with
the required fees, on the forms as the city may provide and shall set forth in
the information as required in this subchapter; the site plan shall show or be
accompanied by the following information:
   (A)   Size of the proposed site;
   (B)   Details as to whether all of the area will be developed at once or
whether it will be developed a portion at a time;
   (C)   Location and size of all recreational camping sites, dead storage
areas, recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking sites, and all
dimensions;
   (D)   Location and size of all streets abutting the site and all driveways
from the streets to the recreational camping area;
   (E)   Road construction and plans and specifications;
   (F)   Plans and drawings for new construction or alteration, including any
and all buildings, water systems, wells, plumbing and sewage disposal systems,
surface drainage, electrical service and gas service;
   (G)   Location and width of sidewalks and proposed method of lighting;
   (H)   A detailed description of maintenance procedures, grounds supervision
and method of fire protection; and
   (I)   Any other information as may be required by the Zoning Administrator.
(1970 Code, § 216.46D) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Jurisdiction
   
152.004   Developer agreement
   
152.005   Compliance
   
152.006   Required approvals of subdivision plats
   
152.007   Conflict
   
152.008   Conveyance requirement
   
152.009   Disclosure by seller
   
152.010   Definitions
   
152.011   Violations
   
152.012   Effective date
 
Procedure for Plat Submission
   
152.025   Concept plan review
   
152.026   Preliminary Plat Submission
   
152.027   Review and action on preliminary plat
   
152.028   Final plat
   
152.029   Final plat submission
   
152.030   Partial final plat
   
152.031   Review and action on final plat
   
152.032   Effect of approval
 
Documents to Be Filed
   
152.045   Data required for concept review
   
152.046   Data required for preliminary plat
   
152.047   Data required for final plat
 
Design Standards
   
152.060   General requirements
   
152.061   Streets
   
152.062   Easements
   
152.063   Block standards
   
152.064   Lot standards
   
152.065   Variances
   
152.066   Public land dedication
 
Municipal Service of Water and Sanitary Sewer
   
152.080   Generally
 
Registered Land Surveys
   
152.095   Application
 
Conformance
   
152.110   Conformance to zoning
 
Fees
   
152.125   Required fees
 
Extension of Subdivision Regulations
   
152.140   Generally
 
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.155   Administration
   
152.156   Administrative lot split and combination process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the Subdivision
Ordinance of the City of Madison Lake, except as referred to herein, where it
shall be known as this chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority in M.S. §§ 429, 462.358, 471, and 505, as they may
be amended from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following
purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the municipality;
   (B)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the municipality and to encourage the orderly and beneficial
development of all parts of the municipality;
   (C)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the municipality
and the value of buildings and improvements upon land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (D)   To assure those public improvements such as streets, utilities, and
drainage are constructed to satisfactory standards;
   (E)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, lakes, ponds, and wetlands,
to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table;
and to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout
the municipality in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of
the community and the value of land;
   (F)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting therefrom;
   (G)   Provide common grounds of understanding between prospective
subdividers and municipal officials; and
   (H)   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit
developments, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with
minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land, likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.003 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land shall
apply to all lands within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.004 DEVELOPER AGREEMENT.
   The city may grant a developer permission to do work at its own expense, on
the condition that the work be done under supervision of the City of Madison
Lake or its agents, engineers, or other representatives, on the terms and
conditions contained in the signed development agreement or any other contracts
or documents referred to.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.005 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.006 REQUIRED APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have any validity, it shall have been reviewed by the
City Planning Commission and approved by the City Council and recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.007 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any other
official regulations or ordinances of the city; provided, however, that when
there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those
contained in other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the most
restrictive standards shall apply.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.008 CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   After the adoption of this chapter, no conveyance of land to which
this chapter is applicable shall be filed or recorded if the land in the
conveyance is described by metes and bounds description; is an unapproved
registered land survey; or is an unapproved plat.
   (B)   The above provision, division (A) above, shall not apply to a
conveyance if the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel or record created by metes and bounds
description or any registered land survey on or before 1-1-2001;
      (2)   Was a separate parcel of record or was the subject of a written
agreement to convey on or before 1-1-2001;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2 and 1/2 acres and 150 feet
in width on 1-1-2001;
      (4)   Was separate parcel of not less than 5 acres and 300 feet in width
on 1-1-2001;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than 5 acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or parcels,
any 1 of which is less than 5 acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   It is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not
less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its
conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or
parcels, any 1 of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
   (C)   In any case in which compliance with the above provision of this
chapter, will create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not
interfere with the purpose of this chapter, the City Council may waive the
compliance by resolution thereby permitting filing or recording.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.009 DISCLOSURE BY SELLER.
   (A)   Any person conveying a lot created after the adoption of this chapter
shall attach to the instrument of conveyance 1 of the following:
      (1)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer that
the requirements of this chapter do not apply;
      (2)   A recordable certificate signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer that
the requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled;
      (3)   A recordable certificate that the restrictions on the division of
taxes and filing and recording have been waived by the City Council. The waiver
shall only be granted when compliance with this chapter will create an
unnecessary hardship and failure to comply will not interfere with the purpose
of this chapter.
   (B)   In cases where division (A) above is not used, the seller shall attach
to the instrument of conveyance a statement which:
      (1)   Names and identifies the location of the appropriate municipal
offices and advises the grantee that municipal subdivision and zoning
regulations may restrict use or restrict or prohibit the development of the
parcel, or construction on it; and
      (2)   That the division of taxes and the filing or recording of the
conveyance may be prohibited unless a recordable certificate or waiver has been
issued according to division (A) above.
   (C)   In any action commenced by a buyer of such a parcel against the seller
thereof, the misrepresentation of or the failure to disclose material facts in
accordance with this chapter shall be grounds for damages. If the buyer
establishes his or her right to damages, a district court hearing the matter
may in its discretion also award to the buyer an amount sufficient to pay all
or any part of the costs incurred in maintaining the action, including
reasonable attorney fees, and an amount for punitive damages not exceeding 5%
of the purchase price of the land.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. An alley is a public right-of-way, which affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   BLOCK. A block is an area of land within a subdivision that is entirely
bounded exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision, public ways,
outlots, parks, or bodies of water.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer is a professional engineer as designated by
the City Council.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The comprehensive plan prepared and adopted
by the Planning Commission and approved by the Council which indicates the
general locations recommended for the various functional classes of public
works, places and structures and for the general physical development of the
city and included any unit or part of the plan separately adopted and any
amendment to the plans or parts thereof.
   DEFLECTION ANGLE. The angle between a line and the prolongation of the
preceding line.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdivider for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum minimum or maximum dimensions of the items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements, and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainage ways, gas
lines, and walkways.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements
of the city and in the form as required by the city for purposes of recording.
   HARDSHELL. The white mat card stock on which a final plat is prepared and
when appropriate signatures are affixed, is presented to the County Recorder
for official recording.
   LOT. A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership, or possession, or for building development.
   MYLAR. A reproducible copy of the plat that is produced by a photographic
process.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. Percentage of grade on street centerline means the
distance vertically (up or down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access, to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for
the installation of utility lines.
   PLANNING AGENCY. The Planning Commission of the City of Madison Lake.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Madison Lake.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary map, drawing, or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
for its consideration.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical, social, and economic integrity of any given area.
   SEPIA. Refers to a reproducible copy of the plat, which can be produced by
processing through a blue line machine.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place, or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only 1 outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET FRONTAGE ROADS. Minor streets, which are parallel and adjacent to
arterial streets, and highways and which provide access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
   STREET, LOCAL STREET. Serves to provide access to abutting properties from
the higher order systems.
   STREET URBAN COLLECTOR. Distributes trips from the arterial through the area
to the ultimate destination, which may be on a local street.
   STREET URBAN MINOR ARTERIAL. A street, which interconnects with and augments
the urban principal arterial system and provides service to trips of moderate
length with lower level of travel than principal arterial. This system
distributes travel to smaller geographical areas than the principal arterial
street.
   STREET URBAN PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A street urban principal arterial is a
street, which serves the major center of activity of a metropolitan area,
contains the highest traffic volume corridors, and has the longest trips.
   STREET WIDTH. The street width is the shortest distance between the street
right-of-way.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be divided into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 5 acres in area,
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development or, if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes re-
subdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context, related either to the
process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. A SUBDIVISION is the
separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under single ownership into 2
or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term leasehold interests where the
creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads,
or alleys, for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use or any
combination thereof, except those separations:
      (1)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will be
20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and 5
acres or larger in size and 300 feet in width for commercial and industrial
uses;
      (2)   Creating cemetery lots; and
      (3)   Resulting from court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor who is properly licensed with the State of
Minnesota.
   TANGENT. A straight line projected from the ends of two (2) curves, which is
perpendicular to a line in each curve drawn from the radii point to the end of
the curve.
   U.S.G.S. DATUM. The United States Geological Survey Datum.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street centerline located between
lines of different percentage of grade.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.011 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade, or offer to sell or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of lot as a part
of or in conformity with any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat, or
replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of
Blue Earth County.
   (B)   Receiving and recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats, or replats of land
laid out in building lots and highways, streets, roads, alleys, or other
portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public; or private use or for
the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto and
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision, or inspection of
improvements. It shall be unlawful for any subdivider, person, firm, or
corporation owning an addition or subdivision of land within the city to
represent that any improvement upon any of the highways, street, or alleys of
the addition or subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has
been constructed according to the plans and specifications approved by the City
Council or has been supervised or inspected by the city when the improvements
have not been so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
   (D)   Misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.012 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter, or
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this chapter full force and effect. This chapter shall
become effective after its final passage, approval, and summary publication as
provided by the law.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001)
PROCEDURE FOR PLAT SUBMISSION
§ 152.025 CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to the filing of an application of a preliminary plat, the owner or
owner’s representative and his or her surveyor or engineer shall meet with the
City Planning Commission for informal discussion of the proposed plat. As far
as may be practical on the basis of the informal discussion, the Planning
Commission will advise as to the extent which the proposed subdivision concept
conforms to the Madison Lake Land Use Policy Plan, this chapter and other
applicable city ordinances and suggest possible plan modifications necessary to
insure conformance. In addition to the informal review of the concept, the
owner shall be notified of the kind and extent of improvements to be made by
him.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.026 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION.
   Before any lot or parcel less than 5 acres in area may be conveyed of
record, the owner shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer at least 15 working
days before the regular meeting date of the Planning Commission, the following
materials:
   (A)   A completed subdivision application including payment of the
application fees;
   (B)   Ten prints of a preliminary plat completed in compliance with the
provision of §
152.046; and
   (C)   Other supplementary material as enumerated in this chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.027 REVIEW AND ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Public hearing required.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the above information, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall place the proposed plat on the agenda of the next regular Planning
Commission meeting.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held on the preliminary plat application.
Notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the municipality at least 10 days prior to the day of the
hearing. Notification shall also be mailed to the subdivider and the owner(s)
of the property within 350 inches to the land within the plat.
   (B)   Review and action. The Planning Commission shall within a reasonable
time, pass upon the preliminary plat as originally submitted or modified. If
approved, the planning Commission shall express its approval as conditional
approval and state the conditions of the approval, if any, or if disapproved,
shall express its reasons. The approval or disapproval shall be transmitted to
the Council and the Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat.
Approval means the acceptance of the preliminary plat as the basis for
preparation of a final plat.
   (C)   Time limits for review of the preliminary plat.
      (1)   A subdivision application shall be preliminarily approved or
disapproved within 60 days as allowed by statute, following delivery of an
application completed in compliance with this chapter by the applicant to the
city, unless an extension of the review period has been agreed to by the
applicant.
      (2)   If the City Council fails to preliminarily approve or disapprove an
application within the review period, the application shall be deemed
preliminarily approved, and upon demand the City Clerk-Treasurer shall execute
a certificate to that effect.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.028 FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat, conforming substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, shall be submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer at least 15 days
before the regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The City
Clerk-Treasurer shall place the final plat on the agenda of the next regular
Planning Commission meeting and send notices as may be required.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.029 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Six prints of a final plat shall be completed in compliance with the
provisions of §
152.047.
   (B)   Other supplementary material shall be submitted as enumerated in this
chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.030 PARTIAL FINAL PLAT.
   The owner may file the final plat limited to the portion of the preliminary
plat, which he or she proposes to record and develop at the time, provided that
the portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.031 REVIEW AND ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   When a final plat meets all the conditions of this chapter, the
Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the Council and the Council
shall act on the recommendation. Following final approval or disapproval by the
Council, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the owner or subdivider of the
Council’s action and the final plat, when duly certified, signed, and
acknowledged by the Planning Commission and Council shall then be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder. After the County Recorder has filed the
final plat, the owner shall provide the City Clerk-Treasurer with the Mylar
copy of the final plat as executed.
   (B)   A subdivision application shall be granted final approval within 60
days if the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and all expressly stated conditions of preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   If the City Council fails to grant final approval within the review
period and if the applicant has complied with this chapter and all expressly
stated conditions, the subdivision application shall be deemed finally
approved, and upon demand the City Clerk-Treasurer shall execute a certificate
to that effect.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.032 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   For 1 year following preliminary approval and for 2 years following final
approval, unless the subdivider and the City of Madison Lake agree otherwise,
no amendment to the Land Use Policy Plan, the Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision
Ordinance, or other city ordinance shall apply to or affect the use,
development density, lot size, lot layout, or dedication or platting required
or permitted by the approved application. Thereafter, pursuant to this chapter,
the city may extend the period by agreement with the subdivider subject to all
applicable performance conditions and requirements, or it may require
submission of a new application unless substantial physical activity and
investment has occurred in reasonable reliance on the approved application and
the subdivider will suffer substantial financial damage as a consequence of a
requirement to submit a new application. In connection with a subdivision
involving planned and staged development, the city may by resolution or
agreement grant the rights referred to in this section for the periods of time
longer than 2 years which it determines to be reasonable and appropriate.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
DOCUMENTS TO BE FILED
§ 152.045 DATA REQUIRED FOR CONCEPT REVIEW.
   (A)   The concept plan to be submitted to the Planning Commission shall be
based upon an accurate base map, which enables the entire tract to be shown on
1 sheet.
   (B)   The concept plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The location of that portion which is to be subdivided in relation
to the entire tract, and the existing street pattern;
      (2)   All existing structures, wooded areas, streams, and other
significant physical features, within the portion to be subdivided. All
benchmarks shall be referenced to local datum or U.S.G.S. if readily available;
      (3)   The name of the owner and of all adjoining property owners as
disclosed by the most recent tax records;
      (4)   All utilities available, and all streets, which are either
proposed, mapped, or built;
      (5)   Proposed pattern of lots and street layout; and
      (6)   All existing restrictions on the use of the land including
easements or zoning lines.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.046 DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision. It shall not duplicate the
names of any plat previously recorded in Blue Earth County or in the City of
Madison Lake;
      (2)   Location by section, township, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owner and subdivider having control
of the lands included in the preliminary plat, the designer of the plat and the
surveyor;
      (4)   Graphic scale, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   A north arrow; and
      (6)   Date of preparation of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   An accurately drawn to scale, preliminary plat including distances
and total acreage in plat as well as individual lots;
      (2)   Location and names of existing or platted streets or other public
ways, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
easements, section lines and city boundary lines within the tract and to a
distance of 100 feet beyond the tract;
      (3)   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with its
original name shall be indicated by dotted and dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways or the original plat shall be so indicated;
      (4)   Location and size of existing paved streets, railroads, sewers,
water mains, quarries, gravel pits, culverts, or other underground facilities
within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract. Also, the data
as grades, invert elevation, and location of catch basins, manholes, and
hydrants;
      (5)   Complete topographic map, when practical and necessary for the
development of the subdivision, with contour intervals not greater than 2 feet.
Water, wetland designations, rock outcrops and other significant features
should be shown. All topographic information should be shown on the preliminary
plat;
      (6)   Boundary line survey, including measured distances and angles,
which shall close by latitude and departure with an error of closure not
exceeding 1 foot in 10,000 feet;
      (7)   Total acreage in the preliminary and individual lots, computed to
.01 of an acre; and
      (8)   Boundary lines of adjoining platted or unplatted land and owners of
all tracts of land within 100 feet.
   (C)   Design features of preliminary plats.
      (1)   Layout of streets, showing right-of-way, widths, and names;
      (2)   Locations and widths of alleys and pedestrian ways;
      (3)   Layout, lots and block numbers, and typical lot dimensions scaled
to the nearest foot;
      (4)   Areas other than those mentioned above intended to be dedicated for
public use, including the size of those areas; and
      (5)   A draft of proposed restrictive covenants if any are contemplated.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.047 DATA REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall be on a sheet of 20 inches wide and 30 inches
long and shall be drawn to scale.
   (B)   Sheets of the size as may be acceptable for filing in the office of
the County Recorder, but not to exceed 34 inches in size; and shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The information, which is required for the final plat shall be
that, required by M.S. § 505, as it may be amended from time to time, plus
additional requirements if the requirements do not conflict with M.S. § 505, as
it may be amended from time to time. Where necessary, the final plat may be on
several sheets provided they are numbered and a key map is presented on the
sheets showing the entire subdivision. The final plat shall have incorporated
all changes or modifications required and in all other respects conform to the
approved preliminary plat. It may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat, which the subdivider proposes to record and develop, provided
that the portion conforms to all the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   The name of the subdivision shall be lettered in prominent print at
the top of the plat, together with the name of the city, township, and county
wherein the subdivision lies. The name of the subdivision shall be simple in
nature, easy to pronounce, and shall not duplicate in exact name any plat of
record in the City of Madison Lake or Blue Earth County;
      (3)   Location by section, township, and range, or by other legal
description;
      (4)   The name and address of the owner or owners of the land to be
subdivided, the name and address of the subdivider if other than owner, and the
name of the land surveyor;
      (5)   Graphic scale, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
      (6)   North point, designated as true north;
      (7)   Date of preparation;
      (8)   The following notation shall also be shown:
         (a)   Explanation of drainage easements, if any;
         (b)   Explanation of site easements, if any;
         (c)   Explanation of reservations, if any; and
         (d)   Endorsement of owner, as follows:
             Owner Date
            1.   Site data such as number of lots, typical lot size, park
acreage; and
            2.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping center,
industry or other non-public uses exclusive of that information about
subdivision’s land use classification.
      (9)   Boundary line survey. A boundary line survey including measured
distances and angles, which shall close by latitude and departure with an error
of closure not exceeding 1 foot in 10,000 feet;
      (10)   Certifications required on final plat:
         (a)   Notarized certification by licensed land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and the monuments shown on
the plat exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are
correct;
         (b)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas; and
         (c)   Certification showing that all delinquent taxes and special
assessments due on the property have been paid in full.
      (11)   When there is more than 1 sheet, an index sheet shall be attached,
showing the entire subdivision, including boundary and streets, at an
appropriate scale. On each sheet, there shall be match lines for matching all
adjoining sheets; and
      (12)   An attorney title opinion.
      (13)   Forms of approval required on the final plat:
         (a)   Form of approval by the City Council as follows:
            Approved by the City Council of Madison Lake, Minnesota, this
            _____day of ____________, 20__
            Signed:______________________________
               Mayor
            Attest:_______________________
                City Clerk-Treasurer
         (b)   Form of review of the Planning Commission as follows:
            Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the City of Madison Lake,
            Minnesota, this _______day of _________, 20___
            Signed:_______________________ _______________________
               Chairperson Secretary
         (c)   Form of approval required by County Auditor and Recorder are as
per county requirements. A certificate or other evidence shall be required to
or upon the plat for filing in the office of the County Recorder or Registrar
of Titles as to the submission of or the obtaining of the written comments and
recommendations. The home rule charter or statutory city, town, or county shall
provide the certificate or other evidence to the county recorder or registrar
of titles. See M.S. § 505.03, Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to
time; and
         (d)   Form of certificate required if land abuts county or state
highway. As per M.S. § 505.03, Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to
time, this plat has been submitted to and written comments and recommendations
have been received from the Commissioner of Transportation and the Blue Earth
County Highway Engineer.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.060 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, in its review of a preliminary plat, will
take into consideration the requirements of the community and the best use of
the land being subdivided. Particular attention will be given to the
arrangement, location, and width of streets, general drainage situation, lot
sizes and arrangements, as well as Land Use Policy Plan requirements for parks,
school sites and streets, but not limited to these.
   (B)   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for building
lots, the parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
   (C)   Drainage shall be provided for in the subdivision by adequate storm
drains or by maintenance of natural drainage channels.
   (D)   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private streets controlling
access to public ways shall not receive approval.
   (E)   Storm water retention shall be designed to provide predevelopment
agricultural runoff rates.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.061 STREETS.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, and location of streets
shall conform to the Land Use Policy Plan, the approved standard street
sections and all applicable ordinances, and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic,
to topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience
and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area
to be served.
   (B)   Street right-of-way widths shall be adequate to serve the proposed use
and shall be designed according to current standards:
      (1)   Local streets = 60 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets = 80 feet; and
      (3)   Arterial streets = 100 feet.
   (C)   All streets shall have drive over curbs.
   (D)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet.
   (E)   All driveways will not exceed a maximum of 22 feet.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.062 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be wide enough to accommodate the utility proposed and
whenever possible shall be centered on lot lines. Easements shall have
continuity of alignment from block to block and at deflection points.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage, channel
or stream, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially with the line of the watercourse shall be provided, together with
the further width for construction, or both, as will be adequate for the storm
water drainage of the area.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.063 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Maximum length of a block shall be 1,200 feet. Blocks over 600 feet
long may require pedestrian ways at least 10 feet wide at their approximate
centers. The use of additional access ways to schools, parks, and other
destinations may be required.
   (B)   Residential blocks shall normally be of sufficient width for 2 tiers
of lots.
   (C)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use shall be designated
as such.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.064 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Corner lots in any of the classes of residential districts shall have
extra width and sufficient depth for establishing a building setback on both
streets.
   (B)   All lots shall have at least a minimum of 30 feet required frontage on
a public dedicated street.
   (C)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or radial to the
street line.
   (D)   Double frontage where lots with frontage on 2 parallel streets shall
be avoided except where it is essential to provide separation of residential
development from traffic arteries or to overcome topographic or other
conditions which render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double frontage
lots shall have additional depth in order to allow space for screen planting
along the rear lot line.
   (E)   Lots intended for commercial, industrial and multiple dwelling units
shall be designed as such and the lots must be of adequate size to allow off-
street parking, loading areas and the other facilities as are required to
satisfy the requirements of the Madison Lake Zoning Ordinance.
   (F)   Lots abutting on a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width, as required to assure building sites that
are not subject to flooding.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.065 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the provisions
of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance. In recommending any variance, the Commission shall prescribe any
conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the protection of the
public interest. In making its findings, as required herein below, the Planning
Commission shall take
into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the Planning Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner; and
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
property is situated.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.066 LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   The city requires that all new subdivisions dedicate land for public
park land as stated below. Any additional land dedicated to public uses, such
as streets, roads, sewers, electric, gas, water facilities, and the like in
accordance with M.S. § 462.358, Subdivision 2B, as it may be amended from time
to time. Dedication shall be determined by the Planning Commission and/or City
Council.
      (1)   Residential subdivision of up to 10 dwelling units per gross acre -
a minimum of 7% of the total gross area.
      (2)   Residential subdivision in excess of 10 dwelling units per gross
acre - a minimum of 10% of the total gross area.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial subdivision - a minimum of 5% of the
gross area including green space dedicated to trees, grass, or shrubs to be
maintained by owner or parks or recreational development.
   (B)   The term new subdivision shall not apply where property lines are
being surveyed for the purpose of correcting previous descriptions, situations
where individuals are buying and/or selling land only to increase their yard
space for individual properties or the re-subdivision of an area where a
previous dedication was made.
   (C)   Where a proposed park, playground, or open space as shown on the
Comprehensive Development Plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision,
the Council may require the dedication of the area within the subdivision in
those cases where the Council deems the requirements to be reasonable.
   (D)   When in the judgment of the planning agency, a subdivision is of
insufficient size to include an area for park and playground or the subdivision
is not designated as an area for playground or park in the Comprehensive
Development Plan, the owner or subdivider, in lieu of property dedication,
shall pay to the city a sum of money equal to the required dedication
percentage multiplied by the gross value of the subdivision. The gross
unimproved value of the subdivision shall be determined in accord with the
intended use of the property. The city shall request the County Assessor to
establish a market value on the proposed use minus any improvements. Payment to
the city of the required open space dedication, whether in dedicated property
or monies, shall be accomplished by the property owner or subdivider at the
time of final platting, provided further that where money in lieu of land is to
be paid to the city, the money may be paid in a manner established by policy of
the Council. In no case shall the plat be signed or a building permit issued
for any lot within the subdivision until the transfer of land or payment in
lieu of land has been completed. Any money paid to the city shall be placed in
a special fund to be used for the acquisition of land, playground equipment,
and/or maintenance equipment for parks and playgrounds only.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
MUNICIPAL SERVICE OF WATER AND SANITARY SEWER
§ 152.080 GENERALLY.
   All subdivisions approved under this chapter shall be serviced with
municipal water and sanitary sewer as provided by the City of Madison Lake. The
extension of city water and sanitary sewer may be approved by the City Council
provided that subdivision is annexed. The subdivider shall be responsible for
the entire cost of extension, unless otherwise agreed to by the city and
subdivider.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS
§ 152.095 APPLICATION.
   All registered land surveys filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be
subject to the same procedure as required for the filing of a plat. The
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to all
registered land surveys. Unless the governing body shall approve, a registered
land survey shall not be used to divide the parcel of land into tracts for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, if any of the tracts
do not have the minimum lot area or required frontage on a dedicated public
street.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
CONFORMANCE
§ 152.110 CONFORMANCE TO ZONING.
   Final approval of any plat or registered land survey under the provisions of
this chapter shall not relieve the developer or property owner of any
obligation to meet all requirements contained in the City Zoning Ordinance. Any
provisions of this chapter which are more restrictive shall apply including the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Overlay District.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
FEES
§ 152.125 REQUIRED FEES.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a fee as may be established by
resolution of the City Council of the City of Madison Lake.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
EXTENSION OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 152.140 GENERALLY.
   The City of Madison Lake, as enabled by M.S. § 462.358, Subdivision 1A, as
it may be amended from time to time, hereby extends the subdivision regulations
of this Chapter to unincorporated territory located within 2 miles of the
Madison Lake city limits.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.155 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsible official. It shall be the duty of the City Council to see
that the provisions of this chapter are properly enforced by the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Building, land development, or zoning permit. No permit shall be
issued by any governing official for the construction of any buildings,
structures, or improvements on any land henceforth subdivided until all
requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
   (C)   Minor subdivisions. In the case of a subdivision of small size and
situated in a locality where conditions are well defined, the City Council may
exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the requirements stipulated.
In the case of a request to divide a lot which is part of a recorded plat where
the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or
to create 2 lots and the newly created property line will not cause the other
remaining portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter, section, or
division of the Zoning Ordinance, the division may be approved by the Council
after submission of a survey and legal description showing the original lot and
the proposed division.
(Ord. 217, passed 11-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 9-7-2004)
§ 152.156 ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLIT AND COMBINATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Lot split. The simple division of a single parcel, tract, or lot to
create no more than two lots and the newly created property line will not cause
any portion of any lot or any structure to be in violation of any of the city's
Municipal Code, Zoning Code, or other codes, ordinances, rules or statutes of
the city or state.
   (B)   Lot combination. The simple combining of two parcels, tracts, or lots
to create no more than one lot and the newly created property line will not
cause any portion of any lot or any structure to be in violation of any of the
city's Municipal Code, Zoning Code, or other codes, ordinances, rules or
statutes of the city or state.
   (C)   Process. Whenever any parcel, tract, or lot is to be split or combined
as set forth herein an application shall be made to the city's Zoning
Administrator for the same along with the following requirements met:
      (1)   An application shall be completed by the applicant requesting a
combination or splitting of land;
      (2)   A certificate of survey shall be prepared by a licensed land
surveyor identifying any split of a parcel, tract, or lot. For a combination of
parcels no survey is needed;
      (3)   A correct legal description for the land to be split or combined
shall be provided;
      (4)   For a lot split, two new deeds presented in recordable fashion
shall be provided containing the new legal descriptions along with evidence of
ownership for each such parcel. For a lot combination, evidence of ownership of
both parcels to be combined shall be sufficient;
      (5)   Any applicable split or combination fee shall be submitted with the
application with said fee being established according to the city's fee
schedule as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Any and all other necessary relevant information and documentation
as reasonably requested by the city; and
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator shall then make a recommendation to the
City Administrator on the application. The Zoning Administrator shall either
approve the split or combination or deny the same. Any denial shall be in
writing and shall state the specific reasons for denial. Any applicant may
appeal the administrative decision of the City Administrator directly to the
City Council within thirty 30 days of receiving the City Administrator's
decision on the split or combination application.
   (D)   Recording. If the administrative lot split or combination is approved
by the City Administrator, the Administrator's decision shall then be recorded
with the County Recorder by the applicant. Any and all recording fees, survey
costs, or other such related County Recording requirements shall be paid by the
applicant. The City Administrator's decision on the combination or split shall
be null and void if not recorded with the County Recorder within 90 days after
the approval date.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 4-6-2020)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s zoning code is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 12-5-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
III.   STREET WIDTHS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
77    12-5-  Annexation of platted land
      1977
      4-2-   Extending the corporate limits of the City of Madison Lake to include certain
82    1979   unincorporated platted and unplatted land not exceeding 200 acres in area
             abutting upon the city limits
93    1-7-   Annexation of parcel located on part of Government Lot 2 in Section 3, Township
      1980   108 North, Range 25 West
141   1-11-  Extending the corporate limits of the City of Madison Lake to include certain
      1988   unincorporated platted land abutting upon the city limits
      7-13-  Annexation; Point Pleasant, Part of Lot 54, Le Ray Town, 1.600 acres, more
169   1992   accurately described as that part of Lot 54, Point Pleasant, that lies within
             Government Lot 1, Section 3, Township 108, Range 25
201   5-17-  Annexation of that part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section
      1999   35, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  8-16-
1999- 1999   Joint resolution providing annexation involving Town of Le Ray, Minnesota
8-16
      2-22-  Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
205   2000   Section 34, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota,
             known as 604 Elm Avenue
      2-22-  Annexation of territory now known as The Pines Addition to part of Government
206   2000   Lot 9, Section 27, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County,
             Minnesota
             Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
207   2-22-  Section 34, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota,
      2000   described as Northern Oaks Subdivision, Lot 2, Block 1 (also known as 700 Elm
             Avenue)
      2-22-  Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
208   2000   Section 34, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota,
             described as Northern Oaks 001 001 00 001.230A (known as 115 Park Road)
      6-19-  The annexation of territory now known as Outlot B to Pines Second Addition,
210   2000   located at Township 109 North, Range 25 West, as it was recorded in the Blue
             Earth County Land Record Office in 1997
222   8-5-   Annexation of that portion of Township Road No. 293 lying between the Plat of
      2002   Layman Subdivision and Krenik Subdivision, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
228   8-4-   Annexation of that part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
      2003   Section 34, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  11- -  Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
03-   2003   section 34, Township 109 North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
209
229   12-15- Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of Section 35, Township 109
      2003   North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  --     Annexation of that part of the northwest quarter of Section 35, Township 109
3-216        North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  4-8-   Annexation of govt. lot 7 in section 27, Township 109 North, Range 25 West,
04-   2004   lying southeast of the southeast line of Shorewood E. Gov’t. lot 8 in section
223          27, Township 109, North, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  4-8-   Annexation of the east 37.80 acres of govt’t. lot 8 in section 27, Township
04-   2004   109, Range 25 West, Blue Earth County Minnesota
224
Res.  4-8-
04-   2004   Annexation of property known as the Fritz Property containing 23 acres
225
Res.  6-9-   Annexation of all that part of the West 47 acres of the North half of the
04-   2005   Southwest quarter of section 34, Township 109 North, Range25 West
255
Res.  1-11-  Annexation of the East 338.33 feet of the North 100 feet of the South 615 feet
05-   2006   of the Northeast quarter of the Southwest quarter, section 34, Township 109,
309          Range 25 West, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
Res.  5-11-  Annexation of the East 197.3 feet of the North 220.80 feet of the South 835.80
06-   2006   feet of the Northeast 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of section 34, Township 109,
317          Range 25, Blue Earth County, Minnesota
2020- 9-21-  Annexation of .81 acre land located in Jamestown Township as described in
06    2020   Exhibits A and B attached to Ord. 2020-06
2021- 7-19-  Annexing land located in Jamestown Township as described in Exhibits A and B
01    2021   attached to Ord. 2021-01
            
 
TABLE II: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9- -1979    Changing street names so as to conform to the existing
                     street name plan
90       12-3-1979   Amendment to Ordinance 86 changing street names so as to
                     conform to the existing street name plans
 
TABLE III: STREET WIDTHS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
99       6-11-1981   Changing the widths of various streets
101      7-9-1981    Changing the widths of various streets
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
150      12-11-1989  Gas franchise; Northern States Power Company
170      10-12-1992  Electric franchise; Northern States Power Company
172      11-9-1992   Repeals permission granted Northern States Power Company
                     with regard to electric service
213      8-5-2002    Cable television franchise; North American Communications
                     Corporation
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to 1970 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
12.25                         32.04
12.31                         32.06
Chapter 13                    34.01;
                              34.02
13.44                         116.11
                              110.35;
                              110.99;
14.57–14.69                 112.28;
                              112.29;
                              112.50;
                              112.51
15.73, Subdivision 3          90.082
16B.59–16B.75               150.01
16B.62, Subdivision 1         150.01
16B.65, Subdivision 1         150.01
16B.69                        150.01
16B.70                        150.01
115.01, Subdivision 8         52.60
115.07                        52.60
152.35, Subdivision 4         52.20
152                           112.25
152.01-152.025                116.09
152.02                        93.073
152.027, Subdivision 1        116.09
152.027, Subdivision 2        116.09
157.16                        110.03
157.16, Subdivision 3d        110.03
Chapter 168B                  93.006
168B.011, Subdivision 3       93.006
169.14                        70.314
169.18                        70.318
169.20                        70.320
169.30                        70.330
169.53                        70.01
169.522                       70.50
216B.02                       90.082
216B.02, Subdivision 4        90.082
216B.02, Subdivision 6        90.082
216B.097                      52.05
Chapter 216D                  90.085,
                              90.096
                              90.090,
216D.01–216D.09             90.096,
                              90.104
216D.04, Subdivision 3        90.082
237.16                        90.080
237.79                        90.080
237.81                        90.080
                              90.080,
237.162                       90.082,
                              90.098
237.162. Subdivision 4        90.082
                              90.080,
237.163                       90.082,
                              90.098
237.163, Subdivision 2(b)     90.081
237.163, Subdivision 6        90.110
Chapter 238                   90.082
238.086                       90.080
243.166                       97.02,
                              97.04
243.167                       97.04
244.052, Subdivision 3        97.02
244.052, Subdivision 3(i)     97.04
244.052, Subdivision 4a       97.01
Chapter 308A                  90.082
329                           115.03
                              110.01;
                              110.02;
340A                          110.20;
                              110.23;
                              110.35;
                              110.99
340A.14, Subdivision 6        110.22
340A.101                      110.03;
                              110.22
340A.401                      116.09
340A.401, Subdivision 1       110.22;
                              116.09
340A.404, Subdivision 4a      110.22
340A.404, Subdivision 4b      110.22
340A.404, Subdivision 5       110.22
340A.408, Subdivision 2b      110.22
340A.408, Subdivision 5       110.23
340A.409                      110.25
340A.413, Subdivision 3       110.20
340A.503, Subdivision 1(a)(1) 130.07
340A.504                      110.33
340A.504, Subdivision 3       110.22
340A.504, Subdivision 3c      110.22
340A.509                      110.22
340A.801                      110.25
Chapter 342                   111.01
342.01                        111.02,
                              130.08
342.01, Subdivision 50        130.08
342.11                        111.07
342.13                        111.09,
                              111.10
342.19                        111.10
342.21                        111.10
342.64, Subdivision 2(b)      111.02
364.06                        34.01;
                              34.02
364.09                        34.01;
                              34.02
366.011                       34.03
366.012                       34.03
412.221, Subdivision 25       112.03
412.221, Subdivision 27       112.03
412.221, Subdivision 28       112.03
412.221, Subdivision 32       112.03
415.01                        34.03
Chapter 429                   90.103
429                           150.32;
                              152.002
429.061                       93.011
                              93.010;
429.101                       93.011;
                              93.080
444.17–444.21               150.50
Chapter 453                   90.082
Chapter 453A                  90.082
Chapter 462                   90.103
462.358                       152.002
462.358, Subdivision 1A       152.140
462.358, Subdivision 2B       152.066
463                           93.080
463.15–463.261              93.101
466                           90.017
466.02                        93.071
466.04                        94.05
471                           152.002
505                           152.002,
                              152.047
505.03, Subdivision 2         152.047
609.02, Subdivision 3         52.27
609.75–609.76               116.09
609.321–609.322             112.25
609.321–609.324             116.09
609.33                        116.09
609.72                        116.09
611A.80                       112.25
626.862                       10.20
629.34                        30.06
1031.301                      52.27
                              
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules          Code Section
                     90.080,
Chapter 7560         90.090,
                     90.096,
                     90.098
7560.0150, subp. 2   90.103
7819.0050–7819.995 90.080
7819.100, subp. 3    90.088
                     90.082,
7819.1100            90.093,
                     90.098
7819.1250            90.108
7819.1300            90.099
7819.3000            90.093
7819.3100            90.104
7819.3200            90.107
7819.4000            90.103
7819.4100            90.103
7819.5000            90.098,
                     90.104
7819.5100            90.104
7819.9900–7819.995090.082
7860.0150            113.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO 1970 CODE
1970 Code 2006 Code
1970 Code 2006 Code
115:25    31.13
120:25    31.45
120:30    31.46
120:35    31.60
120:40    31.61
216.46D   151.01-
          151.04
315.00    114.03
315.05    114.03
315.15    114.03
315.20    114.03
330:00    114.04
330:10    114.04
330:15    114.04
330:20    114.04
550:00    93.100
550:05    93.101
605       130.01
615       130.02
900       90.001
915       90.035–
          90.039
920       90.050;
          90.051
          90.065;
930       90.066;
          90.068–
          90.070
935:01    92.01
935:06    92.02
935:11    92.03
935:16    92.04
935:21    92.05
935:25    92.06
935:30    92.07
935:35    92.08
935:40    92.09
935:45    92.10
935:50    92.11
935:55    92.12
935:60    92.13
935:65    92.14
935:70    92.15
935:75    92.16
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1999-8-16 8-16-1999   TSO I
03-209    11- -2003   TSO I
03-216    - -         TSO I
04-223    4-8-2004    TSO I
04-224    4-8-2004    TSO I
04-225    4-9-2004    TSO I
04-255    6-9-2005    TSO I
05-309    1-11-2006   TSO I
06-317    5-11-2006   TSO I
2007-384  12-17-2007  Chapter 10, Appendix A
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
-            1- -1973    70.03
53           9-20-1956   31.01-
                         31.12
77           12-5-1977   TSO I
79           5-1-1978    95.01-
                         95.08
82           4-2-1979    TSO I
-            9- -1979    TSO II
88           11- -1979   94.25-
                         94.28
90           12-3-1979   TSO II
93           1-7-1980    TSO I
95           9-2-1980    30.25
97           5-11-1981   70.02
99           6-11-1981   TSO III
101          7-9-1981    TSO III
108          5-10-1982   90.015–
                         90.021
110          8-4-1982    150.50-
                         150.57
124          3-8-1982    31.25-
                         31.31
134          4-13-1987   91.30-
                         91.32
136          11-9-1987   114.02
140          12-14-1987  70.01
141          1-11-1988   TSO I
                         150.15–
148          9-11-1989   150.27;
                         150.29–
                         150.35
150          12-11-1989  TSO IV
169          7-13-1992   TSO I
170          10-12-1992  TSO IV
172          11-9-1992   TSO IV
175          - -         51.15-
                         51.23
176          7-19-1993   94.01-
                         94.13
177          8-16-1993   130.03
178          8-16-1993   114.01
183          1-18-1994   51.02
184          6-6-1994    51.18
185          6-6-1994    130.05
190          4-21-1997   30.01-
                         30.08
197          5-18-1998   93.025;
                         93.027
198          - -         93.040;
                         93.041
201          5-17-1999   TSO I
202          11-15-1999  151.01,
                         151.02
203          8-16-1999   93.055–
                         93.057
204          9-20-1999   51.01
205          2-22-2000   TSO I
206          2-22-2000   TSO I
207          2-22-2000   TSO I
208          2-22-2000   TSO I
209          4-28-2000   150.02
210          6-19-2000   TSO I
213          8-5-2002    TSO IV
214          9-17-2001   113.01-
                         113.12
                         152.001-
                         152.012;
                         152.025-
                         152.032;
                         152.045-
                         152.047;
217          11-5-2001   152.060-
                         152.066;
                         152.080;
                         152.095;
                         152.110;
                         152.125;
                         152.140;
                         152.155
222          8-5-2002    TSO I
                         112.01-
                         112.03;
223          1-21-2003   112.15-
                         112.29;
                         112.40-
                         112.51
                         70.15-
224          12-2-2002   70.26;
                         70.400
                         152.001-
                         152.011;
                         152.025-
                         152.032;
                         152.045-
                         152.047;
-            2- -2004    152.060-
                         152.066;
                         152.080;
                         152.095;
                         152.110;
                         152.125;
                         152.140;
                         152.155
                         152.001-
                         152.011;
                         152.025-
                         152.032;
                         152.045-
                         152.047;
-            4-5-2004    152.060-
                         152.066;
                         152.080;
                         152.095;
                         152.110;
                         152.125;
                         152.140;
                         152.155
                         91.01;
                         91.03-
225          10-4-2004   91.07;
                         91.09-
                         91.13
228          8-4-2003    TSO I
229          12-15-2003  TSO I
229          10-18-2004  93.070-
                         93.086
231          6-21-2004   50.01-
                         50.11
                         152.001-
                         152.011;
                         152.025-
                         152.032;
                         152.045-
                         152.047;
-            9-7-2004    152.060-
                         152.066;
                         152.080;
                         152.095;
                         152.110;
                         152.125;
                         152.140;
                         152.155
234          12-19-2005  33.01
                         52.01–
                         52.07;
                         52.20–
238          5-1-2006    52.26;
                         52.40;
                         52.42–
                         52.44;
                         52.99
237          12-18-2006  33.01;
                         33.02
-            - -         52.20
                         116.01-
236          7-2-2007    116.14;
                         116.99
240          5-21-2007   93.025-
                         93.027
                         91.02;
                         91.04;
243          8-6-2007    91.05;
                         91.07;
                         91.08;
                         91.99
-            12-17-2007  10.98
                         70.01–
                         70.03;
                         70.15–
                         70.26;
-            12-17-2007  70.314;
                         70.318;
                         70.320;
                         70.330;
                         70.400
Am. Ord. 238 4-21-2008   52.41
248          9-15-2008   93.030–
                         93.033
249          10-13-2008  93.090–
                         93.093
2009-1       4-6-2009    150.01
2009-2       8-17-2009   52.60–
                         52.71
2009-3       9-8-2009    34.01;
                         34.02
2009-4       9-21-2009   90.002
2009-5       12-7-2009   52.05
2011-02      3-21-2011   116.06
2011-04      3-21-2011   116.07
2011-05      6-6-2011    34.03
2011-06      12-5-2011   130.07
                         96.01–
2013-004     3-18-2013   96.05;
                         96.99
                         90.080–
2013-07      7-15-2013   90.101;
                         90.999
2013-09      8-19-2013   52.27
2014-10      7-7-2014    70.50
                         93.001–
                         93.012;
                         93.025–
                         93.027;
                         93.030–
                         93.033;
                         93.040;
2014-14      12-1-2014   93.041;
                         93.055–
                         93.057;
                         93.070–
                         93.086;
                         93.090–
                         93.093;
                         93.100;
                         93.101
                         97.01–
2015-05      5-6-2015    97.05;
                         97.99
                         31.27;
2015-06      6-1-2015    31.29;
                         31.31
2016-01      1-11-2016   33.01
2016-02      3-7-2016    33.01
2016-03      3-7-2016    51.17
2016-04      4-18-2016   31.35–
                         31.40
2016-05      4-18-2016   31.25–
                         31.31
21           9-5-2017    30.25–
                         30.27
2016-08      12-5-2016   153.01
2018-02      2- -2018    90.080–
                         90.111
2019-02      9-3-2019    52.05
2020-02      4-6-2020    93.005
2020-03      4-6-2020    152.156
                         117.01–
2020-04      --2020      117.06,
                         117.99
2020-05      8-17-2020   30.27
2020-06      9-21-2020   TSO I
2020-07      11-16-2020  33.01
2021-01      7-19-2021   TSO I
2021-02      11-15-2021  33.01
70.05        8-15-2022   70.05
70.04        9-19-2022   70.04
2023-01      2-21-2023   33.01
2023-02      4-10-2023   91.14
2023-03      4-10-2023   91.15
2023-04      8-7-2023    70.50
2023-06      9-18-2023   130.08
2023-07      10-2-2023   93.004
2024-02      3-18-2024   116.03
2024-03      3-18-2024   116.05
2024-04      3-18-2024   116.06
2024-05      3-18-2024   116.07
2024-07      12-2-2024   33.01
                         111.01-
2024-08      12-2-2024   111.10,
                         111.99
                        
 
 
