CITY OF MAPLETON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-4 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 115, passed 12-20-2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF MAPLETON, MINNESOTA
CITY COUNCIL
 
MAYOR  John Hollerich
MEMBER Matthew Malone
MEMBER Annie Froehlich
MEMBER Kevin Maslakow
MEMBER Ken Warner
CITY OFFICIALS
 
CHIEF OF POLICE          Ben Honsey
CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CLERK Amber Duncanson
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF MAPLETON, MINNESOTA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-1 and S-2 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the
political subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of this political subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MAPLETON:
   Section 1.   That the S-1 and S-2 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of
the City of Mapleton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, hereto, be the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Mapleton City Council and the City Clerk of the
City of Mapleton is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be necessary for the immediate
preservation of peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the people of
this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by law.
   Passed and adopted by the City of Mapleton City Council on this 5th day of
May, 2015.
APPROVED:
/s/ John Hollerich  Mayor John Hollerich
ATTEST:
/s/ Patty Woodruff  City Clerk Patty Woodruff
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense.
      (2)   However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY.
         (a)   The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as
presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal
actions at a future time.
         (b)   The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer
to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The Mapleton City Council.
      COUNTY. Blue Earth County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH.
         (a)   An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
         (b)   All terms shall mean a pledge taken by the person and
administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean
the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers
or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
   (C)   In addition to this indication as may appear in the text of the
proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the
ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
right-of-ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   (1)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code.
      (2)   In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the City Administrator or City Council shall
have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified.
      (3)   All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   (1)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property.
      (2)   This warrant shall be only to determine whether the provisions of
this code enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are
being complied with and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal
charges shall be made as a result of the warrant.
      (3)   No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue
the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable.
      (4)   Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the
condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions.
   (F)   Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance to the
property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits, licenses or
city service to the property.
   (G)   Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and
the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property shall
be given an opportunity to appear before the City Administrator to object to
the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the City Administrator's
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (H)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The penalty which may be imposed for any crime which is a
misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted
by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not
more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of
this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference,
which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which is a
petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this code,
the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
   
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
33.   PLANNING COMMISSION
   
34.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
   
35.   TAX AND FINANCE
   
36.   FEE SCHEDULE
   
37.   ENFORCING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, motions and the like
   
30.07   Committees
   
30.08   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.09   Elected official compensation
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the first and
third Tuesday of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the
next following business day at the same time and place.
      (3)   All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be
held in the City Hall, unless otherwise decided by the Council.
      (4)   If a meeting is to be held at a place other than at City Hall, a
notice of that change shall be posted at City Hall at least 24 hours prior to
the meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor or any 2 members of the Council may call a special
meeting of the Council upon at least 24-hours’ written notice to each member of
the Council.
      (2)   This notice shall be delivered personally to each member or shall
be left at his or her usual place of residence with some responsible person.
      (3)   Similar notice shall be given to a legal newspaper in Blue Earth
County and a copy shall be posted on the bulletin board at the City Hall and at
the Pioneer Bank of Mapleton.
   (C)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose 1 of the Council members as acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of boards, commissions
and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open to public.
(1985 Code, § 201.01)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the
absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside.
      (2)   In the absence of both, the City Deputy Clerk shall call the
meeting to order and shall preside until the Council members present at the
meeting choose 1 of their number to act temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules of
procedure herein prescribed and determine without debate, subject to the final
decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question except that on demand of any Council
member he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(1985 Code, § 201.02)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps.
      (1)   Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City Deputy
Clerk or, in his or her absence, by the Deputy Clerk.
      (2)   In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint a
Secretary Pro Tem.
      (3)   Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in
the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City Deputy Clerk
and can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten form,
shall be signed by the City Deputy Clerk, and copies thereof shall be delivered
to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting.
      (2)   At the next regular Council meeting following the delivery,
approval of the minutes shall be considered by the Council.
      (3)   The minutes need not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall
call for any additions or corrections. If there is no objection to a proposed
addition or correction, it may be made without a vote of the Council.
      (4)   If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the addition
or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes shall
stand approved.
(1985 Code, § 201.03)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Adopt agenda;
      (4)   Consent agenda;
      (5)   Approval of minutes;
      (6)   Visitor presentation;
      (7)   Petitioner, requests and communications;
      (8)   Old business;
      (9)   New business; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer; but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
(1985 Code, § 201.04)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (B)   Voting.
      (1)   The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (2)   The vote of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of
money, except for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute.
      (3)   If any member is present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his
or her name, shall be marked “present-not voting.”
   (C)   Votes required.
      (1)   A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be necessary
for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by statute.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a
quorum shall prevail in all other cases.
(1995 Code, § 201.05)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, MOTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. Every ordinance shall either be read in full before the Council or an
oral summary of the ordinance be presented to the Council prior to final
adoption.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the City Deputy Clerk
and filed in the ordinance or resolution book.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments.
      (1)   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or
resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give the number, if any,
and the title of the ordinance or code number of the ordinance or resolution to
be repealed in whole or in part.
      (2)   Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, communications.
      (1)   Every motion shall be stated in full before it is submitted to a
vote by the presiding officer and shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (2)   Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council
shall be in writing and signed by the petitioners or communicators and shall be
read in full upon presentation to the Council unless the Council dispenses with
the reading.
      (3)   Each petition or other communication shall be recorded in the
minutes by title and filed with the minutes in the office of the City Deputy
Clerk.
(1985 Code, § 201.06)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The Council may create committees, standing or
special, as it deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many members and
perform the duties, as the Council may require.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Chairperson of each committee shall be designated by the Mayor.
      (2)   Each committee member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a
majority of the members of the Council.
      (3)   If the committee does not provide otherwise, committee meetings
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson.
      (4)   The same notice shall be given of committee meetings as for special
meetings of the Council except that personal notice need not be given each
member if the committee so decides.
   (C)   Referral and reports.
      (1)   Any matter brought before the Council for consideration may be
referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate committee or to a special
committee for a written report and recommendation before it is considered by
the Council as a whole.
      (2)   Each committee report shall be signed by a majority of the members
and shall be filed with the City Deputy Clerk prior to the Council meeting at
which it is to be submitted.
      (3)   Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee shall act
promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(1985 Code, § 201.07)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended by a majority vote of a quorum of Council
members.
(1985 Code, § 201.08)
§ 30.09 ELECTED OFFICIAL COMPENSATION.
   Effective January 1, 2019, the salary of the Mayor shall be $2,500 per year,
and the salary of each Council Member shall be $1,800 per year. Each year
thereafter the salary will increase by 2%. The Mayor and each Council Member
shall receive $50 per special meeting, quarterly meeting, and committee meeting
they attend.
(Ord. 30.09, passed 9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Chief of Police
   
31.03   Duties of police
   
31.04   Uniform and badge
   
31.05   Extra police
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A Police Department is hereby continued.
   (B)   The head of the Department shall be known as the Chief of Police and
the number of additional members of the Department, together with their ranks
and titles, shall be determined by the Council by resolution.
   (C)   The compensation to be paid members of the Police Department shall be
fixed by the Council.
   (D)   Members of the Department shall be appointed by the Council.
(1985 Code, § 202.01)
§ 31.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible to the Council for law enforcement and
for property of the city used by the Department.
   (C)   He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline
of the members of the Department.
   (D)   He or she shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate records and
he or she shall report to the Council on the needs of the Department and its
work.
   (E)   Every member of the Department subordinate to the Chief shall obey the
instructions of the Chief and any superior officer.
   (F)   The Council shall designate 1 of the police officers as acting Chief,
who shall have all the powers and duties of the Chief during his or her absence
or disability.
(1985 Code, § 202.02)
§ 31.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the county court, and make
complaints for offenses coming to their knowledge.
   (B)   Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on behalf of
the city and shall serve notices as may be required by the Council or other
authority.
   (C)   All these fees shall be paid into the city treasury.
(1985 Code, § 202.03)
§ 31.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   (A)   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable
badge and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief may authorize
the performance of specific duties while not in uniform.
   (B)   When a member terminates his or her membership in the Department, he
or she shall immediately deliver to the city his or her badge, uniform and all
other property of the city in his or her possession.
(1985 Code, § 202.04)
§ 31.05 EXTRA POLICE.
   (A)   In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Council may
appoint for a specified time as many special police officers as may be
necessary for the maintenance of law and order.
   (B)   During the term of appointment, the special police officers shall have
only those powers and perform only those duties as shall be specifically
assigned by the Chief of Police.
(1985 Code, § 202.05)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Continuation
   
32.02   Officers
   
32.03   Duties of Chief
   
32.04   Duties of Secretary
   
32.05   Committees
   
32.06   Removal of officer
   
32.07   Members
   
32.08   Duties
   
32.09   Practices
   
32.10   Quorum
   
32.11   Order of meeting
   
32.12   Relief Association
§ 32.01 CONTINUATION.
   There is hereby continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department known as
the Mapleton Fire Department, hereafter referred to as the Department.
(1985 Code, § 203.01)
§ 32.02 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Department shall be composed of not less than 20 active members
and may consist of as many members as may be deemed necessary for the adequate
protection of the community, by the Council.
   (B)   The operation officers of the Department shall be the Chief, First
Assistant, Second Assistant and Captain and other officers as the Chief may
deem necessary for effective operation of the Department.
   (C)   There shall be an executive committee composed of the Chief, First
Assistant, Second Assistant, Captain, and Secretary and as many other members
as may be deemed necessary.
   (D)   The Chief, First Assistant, Second Assistant, Captain, and Secretary
shall be elected by the Department for a period of 1 year, each year at the
December meeting. New officers will assume their offices at the annual meeting
in January.
   (E)   The Chief of the Department shall be accountable to the Council. The
Assistant Chiefs shall be held directly accountable to the Chief. The Captain
shall be held accountable directly to the Chief and assistant Chiefs and all
other operational officers shall be accountable to their superior officers.
   (F)   All operational officers shall be appointed by the Chief and are
subject to removal by him or her at his or her discretion.
(1985 Code, § 203.02)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to call all regular and special
meetings.
   (B)   The Chief shall see that all subordinate officers execute their
obligations and duties to the best of their abilities.
   (C)   The Chief shall be present at all fires, if at all possible, and shall
assume full charge of all operations.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to call special meetings at the
written request of 5 members of the Department, the request stating the subject
of the call.
   (E)   It shall be the Chief's duty to enforce the rules and regulations of
the Department and to have general supervision over all the affairs of the
Department.
   (F)   It shall be within the Chief's power to recommend to suspend or
discharge any member for a just cause.
   (G)   The Chief with the advice and consent of the Executive Committee shall
formulate a set of general rules and procedures to govern the Department and
shall be responsible to the Council for the personnel, morale and general
efficiency of the Department.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the first assistant to assist the Chief in the
discharge of his or her duties; and, in the event of the absence of the Chief,
to assume the duties of the Chief.
   (I)   At the option of the Chief, a special committee may be appointed for
any or all examinations of new members or subjects vital to the Department.
   (J)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to preside at all meetings, to
preserve order and to decide all points of order that may arise, subject to an
appeal from his or her decision to the members of the Department.
      (2)   In case of an appeal, 2/3 vote of all members present shall be
necessary to reverse his or her decision.
      (3)   He or she shall appoint an auditing committee and any other special
committees necessary for the transaction of Department business.
      (4)   The meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (K)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to take charge of all property of
the Department and to see it is properly taken care of.
(1985 Code, § 203.03)
§ 32.04 DUTIES OF SECRETARY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to keep a record of all
proceedings of the Department, to call the roll, to record all absences and to
keep the books and preserve the records of the Department.
      (2)   He or she shall collect all monies due the Department, giving
proper receipts therefor.
      (3)   He or she shall give each member at least 5-days’ notice of any
special meeting.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty to receive all money collected by the
Secretary; to give his or her receipt therefor; to keep regular accounts of all
monies as received; to pay the money out on the order of the Department when
the checks are properly signed by the Secretary; to make an annual report.
      (2)   The annual report shall be an itemized report reflecting the sums
received designating the source (whether from fires, dues or otherwise), the
sums paid out, and the balance on hand or deficiency due the treasury
accompanied by the proper vouchers, therefor.
      (3)   The annual report shall be made at the first meeting in January.
The books and official documents for examination shall be submitted for
examinations by the Auditing Committee annually to enable them to make proper
reports.
(1985 Code, § 203.04)
§ 32.05 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Auditing Committee to examine the accounts
that may be referred to it by the Department, to examine the accounts at least
once a year, oftener if necessary, and to make a report at or before the next
regular meeting.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of a 3-member special committee appointed by the
Chief to investigate the character and standing of any person making
application for membership in the Department or subjects vital to the
Department and to report its findings to the Department.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be a Grievance Committee elected by the members from
the floor at the business meeting in January each year.
      (2)   The Grievance Committee shall consist of up to 5 members.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Grievance Committee to investigate
complaints and petitions as may be referred to it by the Department and to
report its findings to the Chief.
      (2)   It shall also be its duty to investigate grievances of the members
and outsiders and to adjust the grievances to the best of its ability in order
to promote good fellowship and harmony in the Department.
   (E)   Any committee appointed by the Chief, or otherwise appointed or
elected shall have authority to request assistance from any member or members
of the Department.
   (F)   Any member of any committee, whether appointed, elected or requested
to serve on the Committee, who fails to serve or shows lack of interest in
serving shall be subject to the provisions of §
32.03(F) above.
(1985 Code, § 203.05)
§ 32.06 REMOVAL OF OFFICER.
   (A)   Any officer of the Department may be impeached therefrom and
recommended to be removed from his or her office by a 2/3 vote of members
present at a regular or special meeting for abuse of his or her authority or
misconduct in his or her office.
   (B)   The charge against him or her shall be made in writing and filed with
the Secretary at least 1 month before any vote shall be taken on it and a copy
of the charge shall be served on him or her at least 2 weeks before a vote
shall be taken.
(1985 Code, § 203.06)
§ 32.07 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Persons who are able-bodied residents of the City of Mapleton shall be
eligible for membership in the Department provided they are not younger than 19
years of age.
   (B)   Any member shall have the privilege of presenting the name or names of
prospective members.
   (C)   (1)   Any person eligible shall, if interested in joining the
Department, fill out an application form supplied by the Department and shall
submit same to the Chief or any member of the Department.
      (2)   This application shall be reviewed by a Special Committee and upon
their recommendation the application shall be voted on by the members of the
Department at the December business meeting.
      (3)   All members must also be approved by the Council.
   (D)   Any eligible person having submitted an application accepted by a 7/
8 majority of the members present by secret ballot and approved by the Council
shall enter into the probationary period of 12 months.
   (E)   (1)   Each person before he or she may become a probationary
firefighter, must undergo a thorough physical examination by a physician who
shall complete the physical examination form supplied by the Department.
      (2)   The report shall contain a statement whether or not, in the
physical opinion, there is any evidence of myocarditis, coronary sclerosis or
pneumonia or its equal in the candidate at the time of his or her examination.
      (3)   The report shall be retained and permanently kept in the files of
the Department. The cost of the physical examination will be paid by the
candidate.
(1985 Code, § 203.07)
§ 32.08 DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the first duty of all active and probationary members of
the Department to obey all commands of their officers while on duty or during
Fire Department related activities.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the members to be present at all meetings, if
possible, and on every alarm of fire to assemble at the fire station without
delay and assist in getting the apparatus to the fire and in readiness for
operation as soon as possible.
   (C)   Officers and or members shall not appear at meetings of the Department
nor at drills or fires in a state of intoxication, nor be guilty of conduct
unbecoming a gentleperson, nor otherwise be a disgrace upon their Department
under penalty of suspension or discharge as set forth in §
32.03(F) above.
   (D)   All members of the Department shall become familiar with the handling
and working of all articles of equipment.
   (E)   Two roll calls may be taken at drill meetings by the Department
Secretary. One roll call at the station at the beginning of the drill, another
roll call prior to the business meeting. Members must be present at all roll
calls to receive credit for the meeting.
   (F)   Members not attending 15 or more meetings per year shall become non-
active members provided they have no acceptable excuse. Upon application they
may be reinstated by a 3/5 vote of the Grievance Committee.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of all members to familiarize themselves with all
the rules and procedures regarding the Department.
(1985 Code, § 203.08)
§ 32.09 PRACTICES.
   (A)   No member shall take or loan any article from the station without
permission of the Chief.
   (B)   No member shall loan his or her uniform, or any part thereof or his or
her key to any person other than a member of the Department without permission
of the Chief.
   (C)   No member shall divulge or make known to any person not a member any
remarks made at the meeting nor disclose the vote against a candidate for
membership or any other business of the Department.
(1985 Code, § 203.09)
§ 32.10 QUORUM.
   A 40% attendance of the eligible membership shall constitute a quorum.
(1985 Code, § 203.10)
§ 32.11 ORDER OF MEETING.
   Department business shall be conducted in the following order:
   (A)   Roll call;
   (B)   Reading of minutes of previous meeting;
   (C)   Report of fire officers and committees;
   (D)   Nomination of candidates for membership;
   (E)   Election of officers and members;
   (F)   Presentation of bills and communications and actions on same;
   (G)   Unfinished and miscellaneous business;
   (H)   New business;
   (I)   Good of the Department; and
   (J)   Adjournment.
(1985 Code, § 203.11)
§ 32.12 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Department may organize themselves into a
firefighters’ relief association in accordance with law.
(1985 Code, § 203.13)
CHAPTER 33: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Composition
   
33.03   Organization and meetings
   
33.04   Powers and duties
   
33.05   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
33.06   Plats; approval
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A City Planning Commission for the City of Mapleton is hereby
established.
   (B)   The Commission shall be the city planning agency authorized by M.S. §
462.354 subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1985 Code, § 204.01)
§ 33.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The City Planning Commission shall consist of 5 members
appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Term, vacancies, oath. The members shall serve a 1-year term. Members
shall hold their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term.
(1985 Code, § 204.02)
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   Officers.
      (1)   The members of the Commission shall appoint a Chairperson from
among the appointed members for a term of 1 year.
      (2)   The members may create and fill other offices as it may determine.
      (3)   The City Deputy Clerk shall act as Zoning Administrator and as
Secretary of the Planning Commission, but he or she shall not be a member of
the Commission.
      (4)   The City Deputy Clerk shall act as the Secretary of the Planning
Commission in the absence of the City Deputy Clerk.
   (B)   Meetings, records, reports.
      (1)   The Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions and findings, which
record shall be a public record.
      (2)   Expenditures of the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated
for the purpose by the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 204.03)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties given
planning agencies generally by law.
   (B)   The Commission shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by
this chapter and by the Council.
(1985 Code, § 204.04)
§ 33.05 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinance or amendment shall be adopted by the Council until a
public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning Commission upon notice as
provided in M.S. § 462.357 subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(1985 Code, § 204.05)
§ 33.06 PLATS; APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any subdivision plat submitted to the Council for approval shall,
prior to final approval, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation.
   (B)   Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission with its recommendations within 30 days, and failure of the
Commission to report within that period is deemed have satisfied the
requirements of this section.
(1985 Code, § 204.06)
CHAPTER 34: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
34.02   Other abandoned property
§ 34.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment and sale.
      (1)   The City Police Department shall take into custody and impound any
abandoned motor vehicle as defined by M.S. § 168B.011, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      (2)   It shall give notice of the taking as provided by law and if the
owner or any lien holder does not reclaim the vehicle within the period
provided by law, it shall provide for the sale of the vehicle to the highest
bidder at public auction or sale following 2-weeks' published notice.
   (B)   Summary action in certain cases. When an abandoned motor vehicle is
more than 7 model years of age, is lacking vital component parts and does not
display a license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other state or
foreign country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale under division (A)
above and shall not be subject to the notification, reclamation or title
provisions of M.S. §§ 168B.01 to 168B.101, as they may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds.
      (1)   The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle shall be
placed in the general fund of the city.
      (2)   If the former owner or entitled lien holder makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership or lien interest within 90 days of
the sale, he or she shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the vehicle less
the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle and all administrative,
notice and publication costs incurred in its handling.
(1985 Code, § 206.01)
§ 34.02 OTHER ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. All other property lawfully coming into the possession of
the city shall be disposed of as provided in this section.
   (B)   Storage.
      (1)   The department of the city acquiring possession of the property
shall arrange for its storage.
      (2)   If city facilities for storage are unavailable or inadequate, the
department may arrange for storage at privately owned facilities.
   (C)   Claim by owner.
      (1)   The owner may claim the property by exhibiting satisfactory proof
of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance costs incurred by
it.
      (2)   A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release to the
owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the Chief of Police of the city after 2-weeks' published
notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property to be
sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds.
      (1)   The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in the general fund of the
city.
      (2)   If the former owner makes application and furnishes satisfactory
proof of ownership within 6 months of the sale, he or she shall be paid the
proceeds of the sale of his or her property less the costs of storage and the
proportionate part of the cost of published notice and other costs of the sale.
(1985 Code, § 206.02)
CHAPTER 35: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
35.01   Storm sewer improvement tax
   
35.02   Urban and rural service districts
§ 35.01 STORM SEWER IMPROVEMENT TAX.
   (A)   A Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District is hereby established
consisting of all properties within the city limits of the City of Mapleton as
of the date of this section, except those properties described on Schedule I, a
copy of which is on file in the city offices.
   (B)   The above-described Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District is hereby
established pursuant to M.S. §§ 444.17 to 444.21, as they may be amended from
time to time, and shall remain in effect for all purposes authorized by the
statute until and unless it is dissolved pursuant to M.S. § 444.21, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (C)   The City Deputy Clerk of the City of Mapleton is hereby directed to
file a copy of this section with the Blue Earth County Auditor and Blue Earth
County Recorder.
(Ord. 304.01, passed 7-22-1986)
§ 35.02 URBAN AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of districts. The city hereby divides the area within
its limits into an urban service district and a rural service district,
constituting separate taxing districts for the purpose of all municipal
property taxes except those levied for the payment of bonds and judgments and
interest thereon.
   (B)   Urban service district. The urban service district shall include all
properties within the limits of the city, except those set forth by ordinance
as included in the rural service district.
   (C)   Rural service district. The rural service district shall include only
such unplatted lands, which need not be contiguous to one another, as in the
judgment of the City Council at the time of adoption of this section, are rural
in character and are not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban
residential purposes, and for these reasons are not benefitted to the same
degree as other lands by municipal services financed by general taxation. This
section may designate lands outside the city which, if annexed, shall be
included in the rural service district. No parcel shall be included in the
rural service district of less than five acres and no parcel shall remain in
the rural service district unless such parcel consists of five acres or more.
Land in the rural service district must be open, rural in character, and
maintained in farm crops or seeded. Grading is not considered development,
provided grading is limited to such as is required to minimize storm runoff
problems, and provided graded areas are cropped and reseeded within one year.
Any fill hauled in shall be graded off and seeded at least once each year.
   (D)   Lands included within the rural service district. The following lands
are included in the rural service district:
2015
Parcel ID Owner Acres
2015
Parcel ID         Owner                                       Acres
R15.24.03.351.016 Jeanne Jaeger                               5.07
R15.24.04.301.013 James Heins                                 9.48
R15.24.04.476.011 Etherington, Bach, Krienke                  12.96
R15.24.04.476.003 Larry and Rita Caron                        13.5
R15.24.09.200.005 Robert C. Nienow                            27.72
R15.24.04.201.005 Richard W. and Patricia R. Nienow           7.14
R15.24.04.126.009 Mary A. Duncanson                           28.73
R15.24.04.101.001 Mary A. Duncanson                           38.25
R15.24.04.151.010 James Heins                                 30.28
R15.24.04.351.006 Compart Louis E. and Marcella M. Rev. Trust 29.29
R15.24.10.100.004 Joseph and Shirley Massop                   5.00
 
   (E)   Transfer from rural service district to urban service district.
Whenever any parcel of land included in the rural service district is platted
in whole or in part, and whenever application is made for a permit for
construction of a commercial, industrial, or urban residential development or
improvement; or whenever such improvement or building is commenced without a
permit the board or officer approving such plat or building permit shall report
this to the governing body which shall make and enter an order by resolution
transferring such parcel or part thereof from the rural service district to the
urban service district.
   (F)   Benefit ratio. In the judgment of the City Council, the approximate
ratio which exists between the benefits of land within the rural service
district compared to land of like market values situated in the urban service
district shall be 30%.
   (G)   Services provided. No city service beyond that normally provided by
the townships of Blue Earth County will be provided by the city in a rural
service district, except fire, police, and planning services.
(Ord. 35.02, passed 7-7-2015)
CHAPTER 36: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
§ 36.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
Code Section Reason for Fee Amount
Code Section  Reason for Fee                     Amount
10.99(A)      General penalty; misdemeanor       $1,000
10.99(B)      General penalty; petty misdemeanor $300
51.05         Connection fee                     $800
90.083(A)     Assessment of improvement project  $100
113.04        License fee for devices            $10
Ch. 114       Alcoholic Beverages                See
                                                 Ch. 114
152.027(A)    Final plat                         $75
152.027(A)    Each lot in subdivision            $1
153.117(C)    Begin construction before approval $50
              (for limited permit)
153.117(C)(1) Limited permit                     $15
Building permit
New house                                        $50
Outbuilding/garage                               $40
All other                                        $25
Begin without permit                             $100 plus twice cost of permit
 
CHAPTER 37: ENFORCING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   Purpose and Intent
   
37.03   Administrative offense defined
   
37.04   Notice
   
37.05   City Code Violations
   
37.06   Payment
   
37.07   Hearing
   
37.08   Failure to pay
   
37.09   Disposition of penalties
   
37.10   Offenses and penalties
§ 37.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the following
meanings.
   ADMINISTRATIVE FINE. The civil fine imposed for an administrative offense
which has been approved on a schedule adopted by the City Council.
   CITATION. Any written citation issued to a person charged with violating an
administrative or other violation as hereinafter described.
   CODE. Any provision of the Mapleton City Code as amended from time to time.
   NOTICE. A letter written by any officer of the city’s Police Department, on
city letterhead, which provides the date, time and nature of an administrative
offense and a time period for responding.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to the section
are intended to provide the public and the City of Mapleton with an informal,
cost effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain city code provisions.
   (B)   The procedures are intended to be voluntary on the part of those who
have been charged with administrative offenses. At any time prior to the
payment of the administrative penalty as is provided for thereafter, the
individual may withdraw from participation in the procedures, in which event
the city may bring criminal charges in accordance to law. Likewise, the City of
Mapleton in its discretion may choose not to initiate an administrative offense
and may bring criminal charges in the first instance.
   (C)   In the event a party participates in the administrative offense
procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty, which may be imposed, the
City of Mapleton will seek to collect the costs of administrative offense
procedures as part of a subsequent criminal sentence, in the event the party is
charged and is adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
(Ord. 804, § 1, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.03 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE DEFINED.
   An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a violation of a provision of the city code and
is subject to the administrative penalties set forth in the schedule of
offenses and penalties set by resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 804, § 2, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.04 NOTICE.
   (A)   Any officer of the Mapleton Police Department, upon determining that
there has been a violation, shall notify the violator, or in the case of a
vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle a notice of the violation.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of violation, the
name of any officer of the city’s Police Department issuing the notice and the
amount of the scheduled penalty or fine. These fines shall supercede all other
fines previously imposed for the listed offenses.
(Ord. 804, § 3, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.05 CITY CODE VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of the following provisions of the city code, or their
successors, shall be deemed an administrative offense subject to the hearing
process of this chapter. Violations are categorized as property, non-property,
licensing, and parking violations.
Other Violations
Other Violations
Chapter 70   Vehicle Operation
Chapter 71   Parking Regulations
Chapter 72   Traffic Schedules
Chapter 73   Parking Schedules
Chapter 90   Streets and Sidewalks
Chapter 91   Parks and Recreation
Chapter 92   Nuisances; Health and Safety
Chapter 93   Fire Prevention and Protection
Non-Property Violations
Chapter 95   Animals
Licensing Violations
Chapter 110  Licensing; General Provisions
Chapter 111  Tobacco
Chapter 112  Peddler
Chapter 114  Liquor Licenses
Property Violations
Chapter 34.2 Abandoned Property
Chapter 150  Special Assessment Policy
Chapter 151  Buildings
Chapter 152  Subdivisions
Chapter 153  Zoning
Chapter 154  Rentals
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.06 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment of fine. Once such notice is given, the person responsible for
the violation shall, within days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay
full satisfaction of the stated violation schedule to the City Finance
Director. The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and payment shall be
admission of the violation.
   (B)   Assessment of certain unpaid fines. Certain unpaid fines for specific
property related violations may be assessed against the property which was the
subject matter or related to the subject matter of the civil fine or the
property which was the location of the activity, use or delivery of city
services which resulted in the civil fine.
      (1)   Notice of assessment. Prior to assessment for unpaid fine, the city
designee shall seek voluntary payment of the fine by notifying the property
owner, in writing of the intended assessment and procedure for making voluntary
payment.
      (2)   Procedure for assessments. On or before the first day of September
of each year, the unpaid civil fine and late fees against the lot or parcel of
land of the noticed party, together with a description of the premises and the
name of the supposed owner, shall be certified to the County Auditor and
collected in the same manner as taxes or special assessments against the
premises.
      (3)   Late fees. A late charge of 15% shall be imposed for each 20 days
the penalty remains unpaid after the first 20 day period.
(Ord. 804, § 4, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.07 HEARING.
   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this section
may, within 15 days of the time of issuance of the notice, be issued a state
citation requesting a hearing through the City Council to determine if a
violation has occurred.
(Ord. 804, § 5, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.08 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In the event a party charged with an administrative offense fails to pay the
penalty, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be brought against the
alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes.
(Ord. 804, § 6, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.09 DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES.
   All penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be paid to the City
of Mapleton and deposited in the general fund.
(Ord. 804, § 7, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 37.10 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   Offenses, which may be charged as administrative offenses and the penalties
for the offenses, shall be established by resolution of the City Council from
time to time. Copies of that resolution shall be maintained in the Office of
the City Administrator.
(Ord. 804, § 8, passed 7-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   REFUSE; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
   
51.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: REFUSE; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General regulations
   
50.03   Disposal required
   
50.04   Containers
   
50.05   Licensed collectors
   
50.06   Rates and charges
   
50.07   Refuse collection schedule
   
50.08   Collection vehicles
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes,
sweepings and the like.
(1985 Code, § 502.01)
§ 50.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse in streets, etc. No person shall place refuse in any street,
alley, or public place or upon any private property except in proper containers
for collection . No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any stream or other
body of water.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall deposit anywhere in within the
city any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon an public or private premises within the city.
   (D)   Burying of refuse; composting. No person shall bury any refuse in the
city except in an approved sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass clippings, and
easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composited on the premises
where such refuse has been accumulated. Garbage may be composted only in a
rodent-proof structure and in an otherwise sanitary manner and after the
council gives its approval to such composting after it finds that the
composting will be done in accordance with these standards.
(1985 Code, § 502.02)
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Every person shall, in a sanitary manner, dispose of refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her.
(1985 Code, § 502.03)
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirement. Every householder, occupant, or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment, or commercial
establishment shall provide on the premises 1 or more containers to receive and
contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in such containers.
   (B)   Container requirements. The requirements for the containers shall be
contained in resolutions adopted by the Council.
   (C)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained of liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a container. Highly
inflammable or explosive material shall not be placed in containers.
(1985 Code, § 502.04)
§ 50.05 LICENSED COLLECTORS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall permit refuse to be picked up from
his or her premises by an unlicensed collector.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Any person desiring a license shall make application to the City
Administrator on a form prescribed by him or her.
      (2)   The application shall set forth:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   A description of each piece of equipment proposed to be used in
the collection;
         (c)   The proposed charges to be made of those who use the service;
         (d)   A description of the kind of service proposed to be rendered;
         (e)   The place to which the refuse is to be hauled; and
         (f)   The manner in which the refuse is to be disposed of.
   (C)   Limitations. Only 1 person shall be licensed for collection during the
period of the license from premises within a specific geographic area defined
by the City Council.
   (D)   Insurance and bond.
      (1)   No license shall be issued until the applicant files with the City
Administrator a current policy of public liability insurance covering all
vehicles to be used by the applicant in the licensed business.
      (2)   The limits of coverage of the insurance are:
         (a)   Each person injured, at least $300,000;
         (b)   Each accident, at least $300,000; and
         (c)   Property damage, at least $10,000.
      (3)   Applicant shall file with the City Administrator a certificate
showing worker's compensation coverage. Applicant shall also file with the City
Administrator a surety bond in the amount of $10,000.
   (E)   License fees. Licenses shall be issued for a period of 1 year. The
license fee is as set by Council.
   (F)   Rates and charges. No licensee shall charge any user of his or her
refuse collection service more than the maximum amount fixed from time to time
by resolution of the Council.
(1985 Code, § 502.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council shall by resolution establish a system
of service charges for refuse collection. In the resolution it shall fix the
maximum charges, including any special charges for extra hauling or collecting
from an excessive number of containers and classify users of the service
according to the type of occupancy and number of collections per week.
   (B)   Billing. The service charge shall be made to the owner or occupant of
each building or housing unit served. If the building is served by city water
or sewer, the refuse collection charge shall be billed as a separate entry on
the water or sewer bill. If the premises are not so served, the refuse
collection charge shall be separately billed by the City Administrator.
   (C)   Payment. Service charges shall be payable at the same time as bills
for water service and subject to the same conditions of payment. If any charge
is unpaid on September 1 of any year, the City Council shall levy an assessment
equal to the unpaid charge as of that date plus interest at a rate to be set by
the City Council by resolution from that date. The City Administrator shall
certify the assessment to the County Auditor for collection in the same manner
as assessments for local improvements.
(1985 Code, § 502.06)
§ 50.07 REFUSE COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Each licensee shall collect refuse from premises for which he or she has a
collection contract in accordance with the following minimum schedule: once a
week from residences. No refuse shall be collected before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:
00 p.m. on any day.
(1985 Code, § 502.07)
§ 50.08 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Every refuse collection vehicle shall be lettered on the outside so as to
identify the licensee (contractor). Every vehicle used for hauling garbage
shall be covered, leak-proof, durable and of easily cleanable construction.
Every vehicle used for hauling refuse shall be sufficiently airtight, and so
used as to prevent unreasonable quantities of dust, paper or other collected
materials to escape. Every vehicle shall be kept clean to prevent nuisances,
pollution or insect-breeding, and shall be maintained in good repair.
(1985 Code, § 502.08)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Water and Sewer Department
   
51.03   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
51.04   Water and sewer connection required
   
51.05   Charges for service connections
   
51.06   Accounting, billing and collecting
   
51.07   Protection of public and city
   
51.08   Limitation of city liability
   
51.09   Damage to a municipal utility plant, fixture, equipment or appurtenance
   
51.10   Nonessential water usage upon critical water deficiency
Water System
   
51.20   General water regulations
   
51.21   Meters
   
51.22   Plumbing regulations
   
51.23   Water rates
Sanitary Sewer System
   
51.35   General sewer regulations
   
51.36   Sewer rates
   
51.37   Prohibited discharges
   
51.38   Disconnect
   
51.39   Discharge pipe
   
51.40   Permit required
   
51.41   Power and authority of inspectors
   
51.42   Violations
   
51.43   Disposition of revenues
City Plat and Water and Sewer Maps
   
51.55   Responsibility
   
51.56   Payment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   CURB BOX. A device designed to provide access to a curb stop.
   CURB STOP. A device designed to control the flow of water within a service
line from a water main.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system, including building drains
and pipes, from the ground through means such as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW or I/I. The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system, including
building drains, from sources such as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   METER. A device that records gallons of water used.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration during which the only pollutant added is
heat.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in terms
of grams per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
      COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewater
from individual point source discharges and connections.
      INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer that is not owned and maintained by a public
authority.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface water
which are not admitted intentionally.
      STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry storm
waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash water,
drainage and unpolluted water from any source. It excludes wastewater and
industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307 (a) of the Act
(33 U.S.C. 1317(a)).
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WATER MAIN. A pipe, or system of pipes and fittings, designed and used to
distribute water to the water service of any customer.
   WATER OPERATOR. The person appointed by the City Council to supervise the
water system of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.02 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Water Department and a Sewer Department, which
shall be under the supervision of the Public Works Department. The departments
shall be responsible for the management, maintenance, care, and operation of
the water works and sanitary sewerage system of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.03 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any such installation contrary to the regulatory
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirement. When property abuts upon any public street or
alley along which water and sewer mains have been constructed, the owner of any
dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall connect to the water
main and sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within 90 days after the date of mailing or delivering official notice to do
so. The notice shall be given to the owner or occupant in writing by the City
Administrator on order of the City Council.
   (B)   Connection by city. Whenever any owner or occupant fails to comply
with such written notice, the City Council shall by resolution direct a
connection be made with the water and sewer system and that the cost of the
installation be paid in the first instance out of the appropriate fund and then
assessed against the property benefitted.
   (C)   Assessment.
      (1)   After the installation and connection have been completed pursuant
to City Council resolution, the City Administrator shall serve a written notice
of the assessment upon the owner or the owner's representative directing him to
pay the assessment to the Treasurer within 10 days after the service of the
notice.
      (2)   If the assessment is not paid within 10 days, the City
Administrator shall certify the amount to the County Auditor for collection in
the same manner as other special assessments. The City Council may by
resolution spread the assessment over a 3-year period.
   (D)   Removal of private systems. Once connection has been made to the city
water or sewer system, private wells and septic systems must be disconnected
and sealed.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.05 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   When the applicant requests a connection with the sanitary sewer or water
main, the applicant shall pay a connection fee set by the City Council from
time to time per residential or commercial structure for sanitary sewer and per
residential or commercial structure for water.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
§ 51.06 ACCOUNTING, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Accounts in name of owner.
      (1)   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner.
      (2)   The owner shall be liable for water supplied to the property,
whether the owner is occupying the property or not, and any charges unpaid
shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Bills for service.
      (1)   Water and sewer service charges shall be billed together.
      (2)   Bills shall be mailed to the customers quarterly and shall specify
the water consumed and the sewer and water charges in accordance with the rates
adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   Water and sewer charges shall start at the time of installation of
the water meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, 7 days after
completion of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the quarterly rate.
   (C)   Dishonored checks and payment.
      (1)   Service charge and additional penalties. A service charge, not to
exceed $30, will be imposed immediately on any dishonored check by the payee of
the holder of the check, regardless of mailing a notice of dishonor. Dishonored
check holders will be notified by regular United States Postal Service mail of
the dishonored check. If the dishonored check is not paid within 5 days after
mailing of notice of dishonor, additional penalties may be imposed. This can be
as much as the amount of the check plus a service charge and the bank charge.
If a dishonored check is issued to bring an account current following a notice
of disconnection of service, water service shall be disconnected immediately,
without prior notice. The service charge and reconnection charge, plus the
balance on the account, shall be required to be paid in full, by cashier's
check, money order or cash payment, prior to reconnecting service. If a
resident issues a dishonored check, all future utility bills must be paid in
cash or by cashier's check or money order. If a customer who has issued a
dishonored check in the past wishes to set up a new account, a $100 deposit is
required. This deposit will be reimbursed to customer after 1 year with
interested (with interest rate on day of payment), if account has remained
current for the entire year.
      (2)   Prepayment or overpayment. Any prepayment or overpayment of charges
may be retained by the city and applied on subsequent quarterly charges.
   (D)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   All charges for water and sewer service shall be due on the
quarterly due date specified by the city for the respective account and shall
be delinquent if they are unpaid at the close of business on the due date
specified on the statement.
      (2)   If such due date shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday, the time shall be extended to the close of business on the next
succeeding day on which business is normally transacted.
      (3)   A penalty of 10% of the amount due shall be added to, and become a
part of, all delinquent utility bills. The water operator shall be authorized
to shut off the consumer's supply of water, if the consumer's water bill
becomes delinquent for a period of 30 days and the procedural requirements of
division (E) have been complied with.
      (4)   When water service to any premises has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored except upon the payment of all delinquent bills and a
turn on fee in the amount duly established by the City Council from time to
time.
      (5)   Delinquent accounts shall be certified to the City Administrator
who shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of the
delinquent amounts against the respective properties served.
      (6)   The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council for
adoption on or before October 1 of each year for certification to the County
Auditor for collection along with taxes.
      (7)   Such action is optional and may be subsequent to taking legal
action to collect delinquent accounts.
   (E)   Procedures for shutoff of service.
      (1)   Water shall not be shut off under division (D) or for a violation
of rules and regulations affecting utility service until notice and opportunity
for a hearing have first been given the owner of the premises involved.
      (2)   The notice shall be personally served or shall be mailed by first
class mail to the owner of the premises and shall state that if payment is not
made before a day stated in the notice but not less than 10 days after the date
of which the notice is given, the water supply to the premises will be shut
off.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the owner may, before such date,
demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the supply will not be cut off
until after the hearing is held.
      (4)   If the owner requests a hearing before the date specified, a
hearing shall be held on the matter by the Administrator at least 1 week after
the date on which the request is made.
      (5)   If, as a result of the hearing, the Administrator finds that the
amount claimed to be owing is actually due and unpaid and that there is no
legal reason why the water supply of the delinquent customer may not be shut
off in accordance with this chapter, the city may shut off the supply.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 6-24-2011; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.07 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND CITY.
   (A)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   Before undertaking the construction work, the plumber or contractor
shall secure and maintain a policy of insurance against damages to property or
injury or death to persons.
      (2)   The policy shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its
personnel against any claim, damages, or cause of action arising out of the
work and from any expenses of defending the same.
      (3)   The property damage insurance coverage shall be in the amount of at
least $300,000 combined single limits for bodily injury and property damage.
      (4)   Proof of such insurance shall be filed with the city prior to
construction work and such policy shall provide that the city shall be notified
immediately of any termination or cancellation of such insurance.
   (B)   Apportionment of costs.
      (1)   The owner shall bear the costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer or extension of water service
to private property.
      (2)   The owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly
or indirectly caused by its installation and connection.
      (3)   To the extent the City Administrator deems necessary, the City
Administrator shall establish rules and regulations for the proper
implementation of these requirements which, when approved by the City Council
by resolution, shall govern the installation and connection of building sewers
and extension of water service to private property.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.08 LIMITATION OF CITY LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city will endeavor to provide continuous service, but does not
guarantee an uninterrupted or undisturbed supply of utility services.
   (B)   The city will not be responsible for any loss or damage resulting from
the interruption or disturbance of service for any cause other than gross
negligence of the city.
   (C)   The city will not be liable for any loss of profits or other
consequential damages resulting from the use of service or any interruption or
disturbance of service.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.09 DAMAGE TO A MUNICIPAL UTILITY PLANT, FIXTURE, EQUIPMENT OR
APPURTENANCE.
   Any person causing damage to any municipal utility plant, fixture,
equipment, or appurtenance, including but not limited to meters, water hydrants
and curb stop box housing shall pay the reasonable value thereof, including
labor for repair or replacement and installation of any equipment, including
excavation, if necessary.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.10 NONESSENTIAL WATER USAGE UPON CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes water conservation restrictions and
the plan will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order
a critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CITY CLERK. The person assigned duties pursuant to
M.S. § 412.151.
      DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department.
      EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the
Governor.
      IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other
outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for agricultural
purposes.
      NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. Notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages, or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, subdivision 4.
      RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices, and all water utilized more than once before re-entering
the natural water cycle.
      WATER RE-CIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse
water at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   This section applies to all customers of public water suppliers who
own or control water use on any premises.
      (2)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this section.
      (3)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented
based upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
   (D)   Declaration of critical water deficiency. Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the Governor, the public water supplier shall
immediately post notice of the emergency declaration at the usual meeting place
of the City Council or the official city bulletin board. The city shall provide
notification to the public as quickly as possible or through established water
supply plans, and/or emergency response plans or procedures.
   (E)   Mandatory emergency water conservation measures. Upon declaration of a
water emergency and notification to the public, the following mandatory
restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced.
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
      (2)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
      (5)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
      (6)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
      (7)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
re-circulation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (F)   Variances. The City Clerk or their designee is authorized to grant
variances to this section where strict application of its provisions would
result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for
reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within 5 days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the
City Clerk. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next Council meeting.
The decision of the Council is final.
   (G)   Violation.
      (1)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk or his/
her designee. A violator may appeal the citation within 5 days of its issuance
by submitting a written appeal to the city. The City Council shall hear the
appeal at the next Council meeting. The decision of the Council is final.
Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence is provided that
equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter from a qualified
vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of equipment
failure.
      (2)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
      (3)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall
be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy. Fines shall be added to the monthly
water bill of the owner or current occupant of the premises where the violation
occurred. The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the
city to pursue other legal remedies.
   (H)   Enforcement. The City Clerk or his/her designee is authorized to
designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 51.10, passed 5-16-2017)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 51.20 GENERAL WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs or, upon notice as provided
in §
51.05(E), for nonpayment of charges, or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than 1 house or building shall be
supplied from one service connection except by special permission of the City
Council. Whenever 2 or more parties are supplied from 1 pipe connecting with a
service main, each building or part of building separately supplied shall have
a separate stop box and a separate meter.
   (C)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person except an authorized city
employee shall turn on any water supply at the stop box or tap any distributing
main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a stop cock or other
appurtenance therein without city approval.
   (D)   Repair of leaks.
      (1)   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the
service line from the curb stop box into the building served.
      (2)   If the owner fails to repair any leak in such service line within
24 hours after notice by the city, the city may turn the water off.
      (3)   The water shall not then be turned on again until the sum in the
amount duly established by the City Council from time to time has been paid to
the city.
      (4)   When the waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from
the leak, the city shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of
notice if repair is not commenced immediately.
      (5)   If the consumer or owner does not immediately commence to repair
the leak, the city may repair the leak and the cost will be paid by the owner
in accordance with the provisions of §
92.04.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrants. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water
system.
   (F)   Private water supply.
      (1)   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected
with any pump, well, or tank that is connected with any other source of water
supply.
      (2)   When any such connection is found, the City Administrator shall
notify the owner to sever the connection and if this is not done immediately,
the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith.
      (3)   Before any new connection to the city system is permitted, the
Department shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new
connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours.
      (1)   Whenever the City Council determines that a shortage of water
supply threatens the city, it may limit the times and hours during which city
water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, or
other specified uses.
      (2)   As per the City of Mapleton's Water Emergency and Conservation Plan
no person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the emergency
plan and any customer who does so shall be charged a fee in the amount duly
established by the City Council from time to time for each day violation and
the charge shall be added to the customer's next water bill.
      (3)   If the emergency requires immediate compliance with terms of the
emergency plan, the City Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of the
emergency plan to the premises of each customer, and any customer who has
received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the emergency plan shall be subject to the charge provided above.
      (4)   Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water
service.
   (H)   Permitting use by others.
      (1)   No person shall permit city water to be used for any purpose except
upon the consumer's own premises.
      (2)   Obtaining water from a hydrant for construction purposes shall not
be allowed.
   (I)   Reconnect fee. If service is discontinued at the request of the owner
or consumer, there shall be a fee in the amount duly established by the City
Council from time to time for reconnecting the service.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required.
      (1)   Except for the extinguishment of fires, no person other than an
authorized city employee shall use water from the city water supply system or
permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes through a meter
approved by the city.
      (2)   No person not authorized by the City Administrator shall connect,
disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or interfere with any such
meter or its use.
      (3)   The meter shall be supplied by the city. The cost of the meter plus
installation charges will be paid by the customer.
   (B)   Maintenance. The customer shall be responsible for the maintenance and
repair of any meter or remote reader that has become unserviceable and shall
replace it if necessary. City employees shall perform actual repair of the
meter or remote reader. Any expense caused the city thereby shall be charged
against and collected from the water customer.
   (C)   Complaints; meter testing.
      (1)   When a consumer complains that the bill for any past service period
is excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on request.
      (2)   If the consumer remains dissatisfied, the consumer may, on written
request and the deposit in the amount duly established by the City Council from
time to time have the meter tested.
      (3)   The city shall test the meter at the consumer's property, with the
consumer being present. Should the consumer request testing of the meter by an
outside agency, those expenses shall be borne by the consumer if the meter
tests accurate or in favor of the consumer.
      (4)   If the test shows an error in the city's favor exceeding 5% of the
water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded, and the bill shall be adjusted
accordingly.
      (5)   Such adjustment shall not extend back more than 1 service period
from the date of the written request.
   (D)   Meter reading and inspection.
      (1)   Authorized meter readers shall have free access at reasonable hours
of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the city
water supply system in order to read meters and make inspections.
      (2)   If the authorized meter reader is unable to get a remote meter
reading, due to the following conditions, the customer will be charged the
estimating fee.
      (3)   These conditions include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Residing a house;
         (b)   Install a deck over the remote reader;
         (c)   Fence in the yard in such a way as to prevent access to the
remote reader; and
         (d)   A dog in the yard prevents access to the remote reader.
   (E)   Installation of a second water meter.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   A property owner may apply to have a water line metered for
exterior use only (hereinafter referred to as a water sprinkling service line)
in addition to water service metered for use within a building.
         (b)   Such application shall be on a form prepared by the City
Administrator and shall include:
            1.   Date of inflow/infiltration disclosure form-certificate of
compliance;
            2.   Name and address of applicant; and
            3.    Location for water meter.
      (2)   Inspection of water sprinkling service line. Approval of the
application shall be granted where an inspection by the Mapleton Public Works
Department demonstrates:
         (a)   The water service line is split immediately upon entry to the
building;
         (b)   Two water meters have been installed behind the split, one on
each line from the split;
         (c)   The line used for water sprinkling service must serve only lines
that lead outside the building;
         (d)   No connection between water lines outside the building and
inside the building may exist;
         (e)   Both water meters must be equipped with a remote reading device;
         (f)   The building must have no footing drains or roof leaders that
discharge directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewer.
         (g)   If the building has a sump pump, such sump pump must discharge
directly into a storm sewer and if no storm sewer is available it must be piped
directly out of the building in a manner to insure the discharge will not be
entering the sanitary sewer system. The Mapleton Public Works Department will
televise the sanitary sewer line or do a dye test along the property foundation
to check for foundation tile connected to the sanitary sewer. Property owners
must receive a certificate of compliance from the city prior to installation of
a second water meter.
      (3)   Cost of plumbing and meter installation. All costs of the meter,
plumbing and meter installation shall be borne by the property owner.
      (4)   Unlawful to use water sprinkling service line within building. It
shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of the water
sprinkling service line to supply water within a building.
      (5)   Water sprinkling service line exempt from sewer charges.
         (a)   No charge for sewer usage will be made based upon water flowing
through a meter monitoring a water sprinkling service line, except that if a
water sprinkling service line is found to have been used to supply water within
a building, three times the normal sewerage charge for all water supplied
through the water sprinkling service line for the 12 months preceding discovery
of the illegal use of the water sprinkling service line shall be made.
         (b)   Additionally, use of the water sprinkling service line to supply
water within a building shall result in revocation of the permit to be exempt
from sewerage charges for water sprinkling service line for a period of not
less than 5 years.
      (6)   Billing. All water usage from the second water meter shall be
billed yearly at the end of the third quarter. The minimum annual charge is
6,000 gallons per year.
   (F)   Final reading. It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to
notify the city to request a final reading at the time of the customer's
billing change.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.22 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes.
      (1)   Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend to allow not
less than 1 foot of extra length and in such manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement.
      (2)   The service pipe shall be placed not less than 6 feet below the
surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing.
      (3)   A shut-off or other stopcock with waste valve of the size and
strength required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and
be well protected from freezing.
      (4)   Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least 3/
4 of an inch. The water service pipe shall be watertight and corrosion
resistant.
      (5)   The water service pipe shall conform to the American Water Works
Association specifications.
   (B)   Water lines under surfaced streets.
      (1)   Any water pipes under any street right-of-way must be traceable
with locating equipment. In case a water line needs to be repaired or installed
under a surfaced street, the following shall apply.
      (2)   All backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch
layers to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the
existing street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of
Transportation Standards.
      (3)   Complete surface restoration shall be made.
   (C)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed as to
prevent rupture by freezing.
   (D)   Location of stop boxes.
      (1)   Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally where desired by the
owners of occupied properties, but they shall be placed as near as possible to
the curb if on a street or within 1 foot of the alley line if the main is
located in the alley.
      (2)   The curb stop boxes shall be installed at an approximate depth of 6
feet below the established grade and shall be left in an accurate vertical
position when back filling is completed. Curb stop boxes must be firmly
supported by a masonry block.
      (3)   No person shall erect any fence or plant any tree or other
landscaping or cement that would obstruct the use of the curb stop box, or
cause damage to the same.
   (E)   Lead service line.
      (1)   Any existing lead service line shall be removed and replaced with a
copper service line during, and as a part of, any maintenance, repair, or
construction project that involves or relates to water main or service pipe
construction, repair, or maintenance that will be, or is connected to an
owner's service line.
      (2)   The property owner will have the opportunity to have the cost of
removal and replacement assessed to the property owner by the city during a
street construction project.
   (F)   Maintenance of stop boxes. The city shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of any curb stop box that has become unserviceable and
shall replace it if necessary.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 11-5-2013)
§ 51.23 WATER RATES.
   A schedule of rates shall be periodically adopted by the City Council. The
schedule of rates shall be on file with the City Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.35 GENERAL SEWER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discharge of surface water and the like.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm
water, surface water, ground water, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
process waters into any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   No rainspout or other form of surface drainage and no foundation
drainage shall be connected with any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Non-acceptable wastes. No person shall discharge or permit to be
discharged into any public sewer any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste having a 5-day biological oxygen demand
exceeding 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any 12-month
period;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide, or
other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage treatment plant;
      (6)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5-1/2 or higher than 9 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, injure or
interfere with sewage treatment, or create any hazard in the receiving waters
of the sewage treatment plant; or
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Interceptors.
      (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of any liquid waste containing grease in
excessive amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients;
but such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units.
      (2)   Interceptors shall be located so as to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Control manhole required.
      (1)   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial waste shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer
to facilitate observation and sampling of the waste.
      (2)   The manhole shall be constructed by the owner in accordance with
plans approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   The owner shall maintain the manhole so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (E)   (1)   Storm water.
      (2)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person directly or indirectly
discharge, place or cause to be discharged any of the following described
substances into the city's storm water system.
         (a)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
storm sewer system or receiving body. Prohibited materials include, but are not
limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction
to the flow in the storm water system such as, but not limited to grease,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing
of fuel or lubricating oil, mud, glass grinding, or polishing wastes.
         (c)   Any water having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 10.0 or having
any other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures or equipment.
         (d)   Any water containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants to constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters.
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
         (f)   Any water having an aesthetically unattractive color which would
cause an adverse effect to receiving body.
         (g)   Any effluent which creates conditions in the receiving body
which violate any statute or any rule, regulation, or ordinance of any public
agency or state or federal regulatory body.
         (h)   Any water having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.5°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other water, the influent at the
receiving body to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C) or having heat in
amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the receiving body.
         (i)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demand pollutants, (BOD, and the like) released in a discharge of such volume
or strength as to affect the receiving body.
         (j)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such a half-life or
concentration that they are in noncompliance with standards issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use.
         (k)   Water containing any toxic heavy metals in such concentrated
strengths to cause adverse effects to the receiving body.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013; Am. Ord. passed - -) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 51.36 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   General rates for sewer service.
      (1)   Each user of sewer service shall pay a quarterly fee pursuant to a
schedule of rates adopted by the City Council. This will include a sewer flat
rate, sewer pumping charge and a storm sewer flat rate.
      (2)   The schedule of rates shall be filed with the City Administrator.
   (B)   Special cases.
      (1)   In the case of a user contributing wastes to the sewage disposal
system in disproportionate amounts or concentrations, the City Administrator or
designated agent shall make an individual study of the particular use and fix
an individual charge that is commensurate with the burden placed by the wastes
upon the sewage treatment plant. If a building served by sewer is not served by
city water and the City Council determines that the sewer service charge
inaccurately measures use of the sewer system, it may order the installation of
a water meter to measure accurately the amount of water used on the premises.
      (2)   In the case of an industry using substantial amounts of water that
is not discharged into the sewer system, the City Council may order
installation of a meter accurately measuring the amount of water that enters
the sewer system, and fix the sewer service charge on the basis of such amount.
Insofar as practicable, installation and maintenance of such meters shall
conform to the regulations contained in this code.
   (C)   Required information.
      (1)   The owner, occupant, or person in charge of any premises shall
supply the city with such information as it may reasonably require relating to
use of water, use of sewer or sewer rates.
      (2)   Willful failure to provide such information, willful falsification
of such information, or willful failure to comply with any requirement or order
issued pursuant to this section constitutes a violation of this section.
   (D)   Disposition of revenues. All revenues derived from charges imposed
under this section shall be credited to the water fund and sewer fund.
   (E)   Maintenance. The city shall be responsible for maintenance of the
sewer line from the property line to the Main line.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
ground water, roof runoff, foundation drainage, sump pumps, and surface
drainage, such as yard drainage, yard fountains, pond overflow, non-contact
cooling water, or any substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary
sewer collection system.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.38 DISCONNECT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation having a roof, sump pump, swimming
pool discharge, cistern overflow pipe, drain tile connection, or surface drain
now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove the same.
   (B)   Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed or
repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.39 DISCHARGE PIPE.
   (A)   All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside
wall of the building with 1-inch inside minimum diameter.
   (B)   The pipe attachment must be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe with
glued fittings.
   (C)   Discharge of sump pumps on to an improved road with curb and gutter
that is in good condition is allowed as long as the hose does not obstruct the
public right-of-way on the sidewalk or the street. This is only if there is NOT
a sump pump drain line along the curb line or a suitable area to dump into
(catch basin).
      (1)   In the case of construction projects, property owner's sump pump
drain lines will be installed along the curb line and assessed to all
properties that are not a slab on grade property.
      (2)   All properties must hook up their sump pump discharge pipes to the
sump pump drain line that abuts their property. Sump pump discharge can run on
to properties that have a sump pump line that abuts property as long as it does
not dispense water on to the city right-of-way or as long as it does not cause
water to flow on to the abutting property.
      (3)   Sump pump discharge pipes must connect to sump pump drain lines
within 1 year after installation of drain line.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 51.39, passed 5-5-2009; Am. Ord. 51, passed 5-
17-2011; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   If it becomes necessary to discharge clear water into the sanitary
sewer from a sump pump or other water collection system during periods of
freezing weather, a permit must be obtained from the city.
   (B)   The permit must be approved by the City Council and will allow
discharge of clear water into the sanitary sewer from November 1 to April 1 of
each year.
   (C)   This permit period may be altered or terminated if weather conditions
warrant. Violations of the conditions of this permit will make the holder of
this permit subject to penalties as outlined in §
51.42 below.
   (D)   A fee set by the City Council for a sump pump in the sanitary sewer
will be placed on any property's utility bill. For 2012 the fee will be $4.00
per month from November through March and $269.40 from April through October.
Such charge will be eliminated upon providing proof of disconnection, either by
calling the City of Mapleton for an inspection or by affidavit from a licensed
plumber that disconnection has been completed.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 51, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-
2013)
§ 51.41 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Within 30 days from receiving a written notice from the city, every
person owning improved real estate that discharges into the city's sanitary
sewer system must allow a duly authorized employee or representative of the
city, to inspect the building to determine whether there is a prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer. Two attempts will be made, in writing within
a 30-day period and forwarded to the owner of subject property via U.S. Postal
Service to arrange an inspection. If no response is received subsequent to
these attempts, it will be deemed a refusal to allow the subject property to be
inspected and deemed not in compliance with this chapter. Any person refusing
to allow their property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the
surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any property found to violate this chapter
shall make the necessary changes to comply with this chapter and such changes
shall be verified by City of Mapleton authorized employee or representative of
the city.
      (1)   Inspection report. In lieu of having the city inspect the property,
a person may furnish an inspection report in a form acceptable to the City of
Mapleton from a licensed plumber approved by the City of Mapleton.
      (2)   Re-inspection. 
         (a)   A property that is found to be not in compliance with this
chapter is subject to re-inspection to confirm that the property is
subsequently brought into compliance.
         (b)   A property that continues to put a sump pump in the sanitary
sewer from November through March is subject to inspection annually to verify
that sump pump is removed from the sanitary sewer from April through October.
   (B)   Any person receiving notification of a violation of this chapter shall
correct the violation within the following time periods:
      (1)   Sump pumps must be disconnected from the sanitary sewer system
within 60 days after the date of notification of the violation;
      (2)   Foundation drain tile must be disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system within 12 months after the date of notification of the violation. Prior
to the time the property is sold following the date of notification of the
violation; or during street construction, repair or maintenance that includes
or relates to sanitary sewer work, repair or maintenance. In the case of
construction projects, property owners will have the opportunity to have the
cost of disconnection assessed to the property owner by the city.
      (3)   (a)   Roof drains, downspouts and other illegal discharges of water
into the sanitary sewer system must be disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system within 60 days after the date of notification of the violation.
         (b)   The 60-day time period may be extended by the City Council
depending upon the climatic conditions which exist at the time the violation is
discovered.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 51.39, passed 5-5-2009; Am. Ord. 51, passed 5-
17-2011; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.42 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation. The
offender shall permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   As for new construction, remodeling and additions, a warning for
violation of this chapter will be stamped on the building permit and if found
to be in violation of this chapter they will be immediately subject to a
monthly surcharge.
   (C)   A monthly surcharge is hereby imposed and added to every sewer billing
mailed to any person failing to comply after being served a notice to comply.
      (1)   The surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in
compliance.
      (2)   The City Council may grant waivers from the surcharges where strict
enforcement may cause undue hardship unique to the property or where the
property owner was scheduled for disconnection but cannot do so due to
circumstances, such as availability of the plumber or inclement weather.
      (3)   The surcharge amount for 2011 will be $100 per month for foundation
drains or roof drains connected to the sanitary sewer.
      (4)   For sump pumps connected to the sanitary sewer the fee will be
$4.00 per month from November through March and $269.40 per month from April
through October commencing 2012. The surcharge and fees will be set forth
annually by the City Council in the city's schedule of fees.
   (D)   In the event the owner fails to correct the situation the city may
correct said connection and collect such costs, together with reasonable
attorney's fees and the collection fees, by suing the owner in a court of
competent jurisdiction, or in an alternative, by certify said costs of
correction as any other special assessment upon the land from which said
correction of said violation was made.
   (E)   Prior to the change in ownership of any building within the city, the
seller shall disclose to the buyer, in writing, whether or not the property is
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The seller shall also
provide a copy of said disclosure to the city within 5 days of the date of the
sale of the property.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 51, passed 5-17-2011; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-
2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.43 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   All revenues derived from charges imposed under this chapter shall be
credited to the water fund and the sewer fund.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
CITY PLAT AND WATER AND SEWER MAPS
§ 51.55 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Developed property. A developer or property owner who develops or
plats property located within the corporate limits of the city shall be
obligated to reimburse the city for the expense of updating the city's plat
maps and water/sewer maps.
   (B)   Existing property. Whenever the City Council deems it necessary that
the city's plat, and/or water/sewer maps should be updated, upon receiving a
bill for the expense of updating said maps, the City Administrator shall
equitable and reasonably prorate the expense of bringing said maps current
amongst all property owners or developers who have platted, re-platted,
altered, improved or developed property within the city limits in such manner
as to render an existing city plat or water/sewer map obsolete.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
§ 51.56 PAYMENT.
   (A)   A bill shall be forwarded to each such owner and developer who has an
obligation under this code to reimburse the city, which shall be due and
payable within 30 days.
   (B)   In the event a property owner or developer who is obligated under this
code to reimburse the city, in good faith believes that their pro-rated share
of the expense of updating the city's maps is excessive or otherwise
unreasonable, they may, within 30 days following receipt of their bill, request
a hearing before the City Council to review the matter.
(Ord. passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   VEHICLE OPERATION
   
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning
   
70.03   Through streets; one-way streets
   
70.04   Speed limit in school zones
   
70.05   Truck restrictions
   
70.06   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
70.07   Safety zones; traffic lanes
   
70.08   Exhibition driving
   
70.09   Police duties
   
70.10   Violations
   
70.11   Snowmobiles, recreational vehicles and the like
   
70.12    Golf carts
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may be
amended from time to time, has the meaning given it by that section.
(1985 Code, § 701.01)
§ 70.02 TURNING.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to preserve a
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one
where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be
restricted at all times or during specified hours.
   (B)   A Public Works employee shall mark by appropriate signs any
intersection so designated.
   (C)   No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the
consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to that designation is first
obtained.
   (D)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
directions on those signs.
(1985 Code, § 701.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of
street as a through highway or a 1-way roadway where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents.
   (B)   A Public Works employee shall post appropriate signs at the entrance
to the street.
   (C)   No trunk highway shall be so designated unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to that designation is first secured.
(1985 Code, § 701.03)
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMIT IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution designate any street or portion of
a street as a school speed zone.
   (B)   Upon the erection of appropriate signs by a Public Works employee
designating the beginning and ending of the speed limit zones, no person shall
drive a vehicle within the zones designated by this section in excess of 15 mph
when children are present, going to or leaving school during opening or closing
hours or during school recess periods.
(1985 Code, § 701.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which
travel by commercial vehicles in excess of a stated gross weight is prohibited.
      (2)   A Public Works employee shall erect appropriate signs on those
streets.
      (3)   No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on the posted streets
in violation of the restrictions stated.
   (B)   Dynamic engine brakes (Jake brakes). It shall be unlawful for any
truck to intentionally dynamic brake (Jake brake) on any public highway,
street, parking lot or alley within the City of Mapleton, except in an
emergency.
(1985 Code, § 701.05) (Am. Ord. passed 6-1-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A Public Works employee may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon
any street under his or her jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on
vehicles to be operated on the street whenever the street, by reason of
deterioration, rain or snow or other climatic conditions, will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or
the permissible weights thereof reduced.
   (B)   He or she shall erect and maintain signs plainly indicating the
prohibition or restriction at each end of that portion of the street affected.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted street in violation of
the prohibition or restriction.
(1985 Code, § 701.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 SAFETY ZONES; TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe
driving conditions at any intersection or dangerous location, and to warn
pedestrians or drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions or hazards,
the City Council may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic and stop
intersections, and may order installation by a Public Works employee of stop
signs, yield signs, warning signs, signals, pavement markings or other devices.
   (B)   No regulation may be established on a trunk highway unless the consent
of the Commissioner of Transportation is first secured.
(1985 Code, § 701.10)
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a
motor vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise
or backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel or in a manner simulating a race.
   (B)   Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by tires, or the
throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section.
(1985 Code, § 701.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 POLICE DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this title and
the state traffic laws.
   (B)   Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic within the city,
either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in conformity with
this title and the state traffic laws.
   (C)   During a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
require notwithstanding the provisions of this title and the state traffic
laws.
   (D)   Officers of the Fire Department may direct or assist the police in
directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
(1985 Code, § 701.12)
§ 70.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a petty misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 701.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 SNOWMOBILES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide
reasonable regulations for the use of snowmobiles, recreational motor vehicles
and/or all terrain vehicles on public and private property in the City of
Mapleton.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DAYLIGHT HOURS. Any time except from 1/2 hour after sunset to 1/2 hour
before sunrise and at any other time when there not sufficient light to render
clearly discernible persons and vehicles at a distance of 500 feet.
      DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
      DESIGNATED SNOWMOBILE TRAILS. Those trails, on public or private
property, that are marked and maintained for the purpose of recreational use by
snowmobiles
      NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways or driveways (public and/or
private), parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been
intentionally modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of any vehicle.
      OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
any vehicle.
      OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title
to any snowmobile, recreational vehicle, and/or all terrain vehicle entitled to
use or possession thereof.
      PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the State of
Minnesota and its agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons whether
incorporated or not.
      RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE and/or ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). Not limited
to TRAIL BIKES, amphibious vehicles and similar devices other than snowmobiles
used at least partially for travel on natural terrain.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street
in which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of the roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skies or runners.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare, roadway, alley or trail used for motor
vehicular traffic which is not an interstate, trunk, county state aid or county
highway.
   (C)   Prohibitions. Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized,
it is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, recreational motor
vehicle and/or ATV not licensed as a motor vehicle within the limits of the
City of Mapleton:
      (1)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except that a snowmobile
may operate upon the most right hand lane of a municipal street or alley and
may in passing or making a left turn operate on other lanes which are used for
vehicle traffic in the same direction for the purpose of going to or returning
from a non-highway area of permissible operation by the most direct route;
      (2)   On privately owned property if the operator has in possession
written permission from the property owner; or, on privately owned property if
the property owner has posted a clearly visible notice indicating “Snowmobile,
Recreational Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles Allowed” or words substantially
similar;
      (3)   On playgrounds, school grounds or city parks;
      (4)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (5)   On a sidewalk or boulevard, except that a direct crossing may be
made in the same manner as provided for the direct crossing of a city street;
      (6)   Upon a public street within the city limits of the City of Mapleton
at any speed in excess of 15 mph;
      (7)   At any place, and at any time, while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
      (8)   At any place, and at any time, in a careless, reckless or negligent
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, or to
cause injury or damage thereto;
      (9)   A snowmobile must not be operated with more than 2 adults or 1
adult and 2 minor children at the same time;
      (10)   So as to tow any person or thing except through use of a rigid tow
bar attached to the rear of the vehicle;
      (11)   In a manner that simulates a race or temporary race, or creates or
causes unnecessary engine noise or, in the case of recreational motor vehicles
and/or ATV's tire squealing, or causes tires to spin or slide upon the
acceleration or stopping of the vehicle(s) to unnecessarily turn abruptly or
sway from side to side; and
      (12)   No person shall drive a snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-
terrain vehicle within 150 feet of any skating rink or sliding area, or in any
other area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other
persons or property, except on streets as herein provided, which may pass
closer than 150 feet to the area.
   (D)   Limitation of operations. Snowmobiles, recreational vehicles and all-
terrain vehicles may be operated only in the following manner and following
locations within the city:
      (1)   On operator's property, subject to the provisions of this section;
      (2)   On public trails specifically designated by Council resolution
which are subject to the jurisdiction of the city;
      (3)   On trunk highways, county and state aid roads or county roads as
regulated by the State of Minnesota or the County of Blue Earth;
      (4)   From the owner's residence or place of business or place where the
snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-terrain vehicle is generally stored, in
a direct route to and from a place of destination provided the place of
destination is a place that the snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-terrain
vehicle may be lawfully operated;
      (5)   In an emergency during the period of time when and at locations
where snow upon the road or street renders travel by automobile impractical;
and
      (6)   Snowmobiles, recreational vehicles and all-terrain vehicles must be
operated in a single file in the city.
   (E)   Street and highway crossings. Snowmobile, recreational vehicles and
all-terrain vehicles may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except
an interstate highway or freeway, provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   No snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-terrain vehicle, shall
enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any vehicles or
pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to
constitute an immediate hazard; and
      (3)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of a street or highway with another public street or
highway.
   (F)   Operation by minors.
      (1)   Persons under 12 years of age shall not operate on city streets or
the roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county
state aid, county highway or city street as the operator of a snowmobile unless
accompanied by their parent(s) or guardian(s).
      (2)   A person 12 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate a snowmobile on streets and highways as permitted under this
section and make a direct crossing of the streets and highways only if they are
in the immediate possession of a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by
the Highways of the State of Minnesota.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the owner of any snowmobile to permit the
snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Traffic regulations. All City of Mapleton traffic ordinances shall
apply to the operation of snowmobiles, recreational vehicles and all-terrain
vehicles upon streets and highways, except those relating to required
equipment, and except those which by their nature have no application.
   (H)   Minimum equipment requirements. It is unlawful for any person to
operate a snowmobile, recreational vehicle and all-terrain vehicle not licensed
for highway use, or licensed for highway use when operating on natural terrain
within the limits of the City of Mapleton unless it is equipped with:
      (1)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
any vehicle motor(s);
      (2)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle motor;
      (3)   A safety or so-called deadman throttle in operating condition; and
      (4)   (a)   When operated between the hours of 1/2 hour after sunset to
1/2 hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least 1 clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
and under normal atmospheric conditions.
         (b)   The head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not
projected into the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator.
         (c)   It shall also be equipped with at least 1 red tail lamp having a
minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions.
   (I)   Security requirements. Every person leaving a snowmobile, recreational
vehicle and/or all-terrain vehicle at a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take same with them.
   (J)   Emergency use. Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this section, a
snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-terrain vehicle may be operated on a
public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time when, and at
locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
(Ord. passed 1-6-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.12 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to authorize the operation of
motorized golf carts on designated roadways in the City of Mapleton, pursuant
to the authority given to the city by M.S. § 169.045.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED ROADWAYS. City streets and avenues not specifically excluded
in this section. It does not mean Minnesota or county highways such as: Silver
Street (MN Hwy 30), MN Hwy 22, and Central Ave. (Blue Earth County 7).
      MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, having at
least four wheels, and either an electric or a gas motor.
   (C)   Required permit.
      (1)   No person may operate a motorized golf cart pursuant to this
section without a valid permit from the city.
      (2)   Permit applications shall be available at city offices and shall be
in a form approved by resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   Only persons at least 18 years of age will be issued a permit.
Permit holders may add additional drivers under their permit that are 15 years
or older. It is unlawful for owner of any golf cart to permit the golf cart to
be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
      (4)   At the time of application, the applicant shall:
         (a)   Provide proof of insurance complying with the requirements of
M.S. § 65B.48, Subdivision 5, as the same may be amended from time to time; and
         (b)   Provide all other information as may be required by resolution
of the City Council.
      (5)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed 1 year and may be renewed annually by complying with the
requirements of this section.
      (6)   The City Council shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
   (D)   Conditions.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart under this section:
         (a)   Except on designated routes and from sunrise to sunset;
         (b)   In inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient
light to clearly see persons in vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500
feet;
         (c)   Without displaying the slow-moving vehicle emblem provided for
in M.S. § 169.522;
         (d)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a rear view mirror as
provided in M.S. § 169.70;
         (e)   With a passenger or passengers unless each such passenger is
seated on a seat specifically designed for the transport of passengers; or
         (f)   Without having a copy of the permit in possession while using
the golf cart.
      (2)   The operator of a motorized golf cart under permit on designated
routes shall have all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any
other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 or other applicable statute
or ordinance, except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to
motorized golf carts and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. §
169.045, Subdivision 7.
   (E)   Revocation or denial of permit. A permit may be revoked by the Chief
of Police at any time or denied if it is shown that the permittee cannot safely
or legally operate, or has not safely or legally operated, the motorized golf
cart within the city or if the permittee's driver's license is no longer
recognized as valid in the State of Minnesota. A permitee may appeal any such
revocation or denial to the City Council by filing notice of appeal at the city
office not later than 14 days after the date of notice of the action to be
appealed from.
   (F)   Limitation of liability. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
an assumption of liability by the city for any injuries to persons or property
which may result from the operation of a motorized golf cart by a permit
holder, the grant of such permit, or the failure by the city to revoke said
permit.
   (G)   Violation and penalties. Any person violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and is subject to having his or
her permit under this section revoked.
(Ord. 70.12, passed 3-6-2012)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   General regulations
   
71.02   Truck zones, loading zones and the like
   
71.03   Emergency/snow emergency parking regulations
§ 71.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Angle and parallel parking.
      (1)   The Council may designate by resolution streets where angle parking
is required.
      (2)   On any like street every vehicle parked shall be parked with the
front of the vehicle facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the
street at an angle of approximately 45 degrees and facing between the painted
or other markings on the curb or street indicating the parking space.
      (3)   On all other streets, cars shall be parked parallel to the curb or
edge of the roadway in accordance with law.
   (B)   No parking, stopping or standing zones.
      (1)   The City Council may by resolution designate certain streets or
portions of streets as no parking or no stopping or standing zones and may
limit the hours in which the restrictions apply.
      (2)   A Public Works employee shall mark by appropriate signs each zone
so designated.
      (3)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or a traffic control device,
no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited.
      (4)   No vehicle shall be parked in a no-parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in the
zone for the purpose of forming a funeral procession and a truck may be parked
temporarily between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any business day
for the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the premises is not
otherwise available.
   (C)   Time limit parking zones.
      (1)   The City Council may by resolution designate certain areas where
the right to park is limited during hours specified.
      (2)   A Public Works employee shall mark by appropriate signs each zone
so designated.
      (3)   During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a
vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer period than is so specified.
   (D)   General time limit. No vehicle shall be parked upon any street in any
1 place for a longer continuous period than 48 hours.
   (E)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage
or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street improvement or
maintenance operations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall not be released until the fees for towing and
storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of this section.
   (F)   Prima facie violation. The presence of any motor vehicle on any street
when standing or parking in violation of this section is prima facie evidence
that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the commission
of the violation.
(1985 Code, § 701.07)
§ 71.02 TRUCK ZONES, LOADING ZONES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The City Council may by resolution establish spaces in streets as
loading zones or truck zones.
      (2)   The City Council shall specify in the resolution the times when
zone is a loading zone or truck zone.
      (3)   A Public Works employee shall mark each zone by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Truck zone prohibitions.
      (1)   During truck zone hours, no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle except a truck in a truck zone.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a truck in a truck zone during
truck zone hours except to receive or discharge passengers or freight and then
only for a period no longer than is necessary for the purpose.
   (C)   Loading zone prohibitions.
      (1)   During loading zone hours, no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle in a loading zone except to receive or discharge passengers or freight
and then only for a period no longer than is necessary for the purpose.
      (2)   No person shall occupy a loading zone with a vehicle other than a
truck for more than 5 minutes during those hours.
   (D)   Property owner initiative.
      (1)   Any person desiring the establishment of a loading zone or truck
zone abutting premises occupied by him or her shall make written application
therefor to the City Council.
      (2)   If the Council grants the request, the proper city officer shall
bill the applicant for the estimated cost of placing signs and of painting the
curb.
      (3)   When the amount is paid to the City Treasurer, a Public Works
employee shall install the necessary signs and paint the curb.
   (E)   Semi-trailer parking. No person shall allow a semitrailer to stand or
be parked unattached from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street
in the city except in an emergency in order to change tractors.
   (F)   Travel trailer, recreational vehicle and trailer parking.
      (1)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle truck, truck-trailer,
tractor-trailer, vehicle equipped with a trailer, trailer, utility trailer
within an area zoned as residential district except for the purpose of loading
or unloading the same.
      (2)   The truck or trailer may only be parked in a residential district
during the time it is actually engaged in continuous actual acts of loading or
unloading otherwise parking shall not be allowed in a residential district.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for an person to leave or park a travel
trailer, pickup camper, motor home, camping trailer, boat, boat and trailer,
utility trailer on any street, or in a city-owned parking lot in the city for a
continuous period in excess of 24 hours, without prior approval from the
Mapleton Police Department, except where signs are erected designating the
place as a camp site or in a mobile home park.
      (4)   Camping is not allowed in aforementioned vehicles in a city-owned
parking lot in the City of Mapleton without prior approval from the Mapleton
Police Department
   (G)   Service of vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to service,
repair, assemble or disassemble a vehicle parked upon a street, alley or city-
owned parking lot, or attempt to do so, except to service a vehicle with gas or
oil, or to provide emergency repairs, but in no event for more than 48 hours.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
   (I)   Time limitation on parking in city-owned parking lots.
      (1)   No car, truck, truck-tractor, semi-trailer, recreation vehicle,
trailer or any other type of vehicle may be parked for a period in excess of 24
hours.
      (2)   There shall be no storage of any material of any kind left on a
city-owned parking lot in excess of 2 hours at any time.
   (J)   Parking for special purposes.
      (1)   Whenever a person, firm or corporation is in need of a special
parking privilege for loading, commercial or any other purposes, written
application shall be made to the city requesting a privilege.
      (2)   This privilege may be granted by the City Council.
(1985 Code, § 701.08) (Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-2004)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 EMERGENCY/SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT EMERGENCY. Any amount of snow in the business district
which needs to be removed for safety. This snow could include, but not be
limited to, low amounts of snowfall, drifting snow, or cleanup from previous
snow removal.
      CITYWIDE EMERGENCY. Following a 2 inches or more snowfall, until the snow
has been plowed by the city from curb to curb.
   (B)   Declaration.
      (1)   Citywide. Upon the existence of an emergency as defined herein, the
Police Department or City Administrator shall make an effort to notify the
public. The emergency regulations set forth below shall become effective as
soon as the city has 2 inches or more snow fall.
      (2)   Business district. Upon the existence of an emergency as defined
herein, the Police Department or City Administrator shall make an effort to
notify the public with a minimum of 4 hours notice prior to being effective.
   (C)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   Citywide. During a citywide emergency, it is unlawful for any
person, as driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of such
vehicle, to park, stop, or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be
parked, stopped, or left standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such
vehicle upon any city street until the street is plowed curb to curb. Except
parking is permitted on Main Street after snow has been piled in the middle of
the road, as long as the parked vehicle does not hinder snow removal.
      (2)   Business district. During a business district emergency, it is
unlawful for any person, as driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the
registered owner of such vehicle, to park, stop, or leave standing, or cause,
allow, or permit to be parked, stopped, or left standing, whether knowingly or
unknowingly, any such vehicle upon:
         (a)   Main Street from 1st Avenue NW to 4th Avenue NE;
         (b)   1st Avenue NE, 2nd Avenue NE, and 3rd Avenue NE from Silver
Street to Smith Street
         (c)   1st Avenue NW from Silver Street to Main Street; and
         (d)   Troendle Street SW from Charlotte Court to 3rd Avenue SW.
      (3)   The emergency regulations set forth shall be effective from 1:00
a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Towing. Upon the existence of an emergency as defined above, the city
may tow vehicles in violation of this section as authorized in M.S. § 169.041.
(Ord. 71.03, passed 12-7-2010; Am. Ord. passed 10-7-2014; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-
2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Use of roller devices
   
II.   U-turns
   
III.   Snowmobiles, recreational vehicles and the like
SCHEDULE I. USE OF ROLLER DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ROLLER BLADES. A form of skate with spherical shaped wheels constructed
in-line and made of rubber or other synthetic material.
      ROLLER DEVICES. Include skate boards, roller skates and roller blades.
      ROLLER SKATES. A form of skates with small wheels or rollers instead of a
runner.
      SKATE BOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting
of an oblong piece of wood or of other composition mounted on skate wheels.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful to use a roller device on a sidewalk, street or
parking lot within the area boarded by the following.
 
Location           From; To
The alley          Between Smith and Main Streets (from First Avenue NE to
                   Fourth Avenue NE)
First Avenue NE    From Silver Street East to the alley between Main and Smith
                   Street
Fourth Avenue NE   From Silver Street East to the alley between Main and Smith
                   Street
Silver Street East Between First Avenue NE and Fourth Avenue NE
 
      (2)   It is also unlawful to use a roller device on the following.
 
Location  Streets
Sidewalks Adjacent to Main Street or on Main Street between First Avenue NE and
          Central Avenue (County Road 7)
 
      (3)   City residents living within the above-designated area and on the
above-described portion of Main Street may use roller devices:
         (a)   On their own property; and
         (b)   To travel to and from the permitted areas in the city, subject
to the provisions of divisions (C) through (E) below.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a roller device upon a public
or private street, highway sidewalk, or parking lot carelessly or recklessly in
disregard of the rights of others, or in a manner that endangers or is likely
to endanger any property or any person, including the operator of the roller
device.
   (D)   It is unlawful to use a roller device on any other public right-of-way
or city-owned land where the use of roller devices has been prohibited by
resolution of the City Council and the area has been posted with signs
indicating that the use of roller devices has been prohibited.
   (E)   A person lawfully operating a roller device on a sidewalk, street or
parking lot has the rights and duties applicable to a pedestrian under the same
circumstance and must obey all traffic signs.
(Ord. passed 5-20-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. U-TURNS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this schedule is to establish safety and
control regulations to protect the public welfare by regulating and
establishing rules regarding the exercise of U-turns at certain locations in
the City of Mapleton.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANGLE PARKING. Parking a vehicle with the front of the vehicle facing the
curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the street at an angle of
approximately 45 degrees and having the vehicle positioned between the painted
or other markings on the curb or street indicating the parking space.
      U-TURN. A turn or maneuver of a vehicle whereby a vehicle:
         (a)   Is turned so as to proceed in a direction opposite from which
the vehicle was being driven prior to the turn;
         (b)   Is turned across the center or median line and parked on the
opposite side of the street; or
         (c)   Is backed across the center or median line so as to travel in a
direction opposite that of the direction from which the vehicle was parked.
   (C)   No U-turn. It is unlawful for any person to make a U-turn where there
is angle parking at any point below.
 
Between                         On               Exception
Between Silver Street and Smith Second Avenue NE -
Street
                                                 Except at the intersection of
TH #22 and Central Avenue       Main Street      Main Street and Third Avenue,
                                                 NE
 
   (D)   Signage. Specific signage indicating “No U-Turn” shall be erected at
the following intersections.
 
Intersections                         Location
                                      Between Second Avenue NW and TH 422,
All intersections on Main Street      except the intersection of Main Street
                                      and Third Avenue NE
All intersections on Second Avenue NE Between Silver Street and Smith Street
The intersections of First Avenue NE  With Main Street and Smith Street
 
   (E)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-15-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. SNOWMOBILES, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   No snowmobile, recreational vehicle or all-terrain vehicle may be operated
at any place in the city during the following time periods:
From                 To
11:00 p.m. Sunday    8:00 a.m. Monday
11:00 p.m. Monday    8:00 a.m. Tuesday
11:00 p.m. Tuesday   8:00 a.m. Wednesday
11:00 p.m. Wednesday 8:00 a.m. Thursday
11:00 p.m. Thursday  8:00 a.m. Friday
1:00 a.m. Saturday   8:00 a.m. Saturday (commonly referred to as Friday night/
                     Saturday morning)
1:00 a.m. Sunday     8:00 a.m. Sunday (commonly referred to as Saturday night/
                     Sunday morning)
 
(Ord. passed 1-6-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Reserved
   
II.   Angle and parallel parking
SCHEDULE I. RESERVED
SCHEDULE II. ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Angle parking shall be required on the following.
 
Street      Location
Main Street From Central Avenue to Third Avenue Northeast
 
   (B)   The Council may designate by resolution other streets where angle
parking is required.
   (C)   On any like street every vehicle parked shall be parked with the front
of the vehicle facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the
street at an angle of approximately 45 degrees and facing between the painted
or other markings on the curb or street indicating the parking space.
   (D)   On all other streets, cars shall be parked parallel to the curb or
edge of the roadway in accordance with law.
(1985 Code, § 701.07(1)) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
   
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
94.   [RESERVED]
   
95.   ANIMALS
   
96.   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
   
97.   HOME AND BUSINESS ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-of-Way Management; General Regulations
   
90.001   Findings and purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
   
90.003   Administration
   
90.004   Utility Coordination Committee
   
90.005   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
90.006   Registration information
   
90.007   Reporting obligations
   
90.008   Permit requirements
   
90.009   Application for permit
   
90.010   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
90.011   Permit fees
   
90.012   Right-of-way repair and restoration
   
90.013   Joint applications
   
90.014   Supplementary applications
   
90.015   Other obligations
   
90.016   Denial of permit
   
90.017   Mailboxes
 
Right-of-Way Management; Specific Regulations
   
90.030   Installation requirements
   
90.031   Inspection
   
90.032   Work done without a permit
   
90.033   Supplementary notification
   
90.034   Revocation of permits
   
90.035   Mapping data
   
90.036   Location of equipment
   
90.037   Relocation of equipment
   
90.038   Pre-excavation equipment location
   
90.039   Damage to other equipment
   
90.040   Right-of-way vacation
   
90.041   Indemnification and liability
   
90.042   Future uses
   
90.043   Abandoned and unusable equipment
   
90.044   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
Local Improvement Policy
   
90.055   Petitions
   
90.056   Classification of projects
   
90.057   Financing Class B and C improvements
   
90.058   Assessment regulations for Class B improvements
   
90.059   Assessment regulations for Class C improvements
   
90.060   Special rules
   
90.061   Federal, state and county aid use
   
90.062   Procedural restrictions
   
90.063   Partial prepayment
   
90.064   Certification of assessments
   
90.065   Permanent improvement revolving fund
   
90.066   Interest rate
   
90.067   Assessment period
   
90.068   Adjustments
   
90.069   General policy statement
 
Uniform Addressing
   
90.080   Purpose
   
90.081   Building numbers
   
90.082   Location, size and shape
   
90.083   Multiple-dwelling numbering
   
90.084   Maintenance of building numbers
   
90.085   Time for compliance
   
90.086   Violations
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT; GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.001 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
well-being of its citizens, and to ensure the structural integrity of its
streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way, the city strives to keep
its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and free from unnecessary
encumbrances. Although the general population bears the financial burden for
the upkeep of the rights-of-way, a primary cause for the early and excessive
deterioration of its rights-of-way is frequent excavation.
   (B)   Right-of-way obstruction is a source of frustration for merchants,
business owners and the general population which must avoid these obstructions
or change travel or shopping plans because of them and has a detrimental effect
on commerce. Persons whose equipment is within the right-of-way are the primary
cause of these frequent obstructions.
   (C)   The city holds the rights-of-way within its geographical boundaries as
an asset in trust for its citizens. The city and other public entities have
invested millions of dollars in public funds to build and maintain the rights-
of-way. It also recognizes that some persons, by placing their equipment in the
right-of-way and charging the citizens of the city for goods and services
delivered thereby, are using this property held for the public good. Although
these services are often necessary or convenient for the citizens, persons
receive revenue and/or profit through their use of public property.
   (D)   In response to the foregoing facts, the city hereby enacts this
chapter of this code relating to right-of-way permits and administration,
together with an ordinance making necessary revisions to other code provisions.
   (E)   This chapter imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and
maintenance of equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed
therein at some future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles
of state and federal agencies.
   (F)   Under this chapter, persons disturbing and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear a fair share of the financial responsibility for their integrity.
Finally, this chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected
costs from persons using the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. –, § 301.01, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the city, or his or her designee.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY.
      (1)   The City of Mapleton, Minnesota; and
      (2)   Its elected officials, officers, employees and agents.
   CITY COST. The actual cost incurred by the city for public rights-of-way
management; including but not limited to:
      (1)   Costs associated with registering applicants;
      (2)   Issuing, processing and verifying right-of-way permit applications;
      (3)   Inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
      (4)   Maintaining, supporting, protecting or moving user equipment during
public right-of-way work;
      (5)   Determining the adequacy of right-of-way restoration;
      (6)   Restoring work inadequately performed; and
      (7)   Revoking right-of-way permits and performing all other tasks
required by this chapter, including other costs the city may incur in managing
the provisions of this chapter.
   DEGRADATION. The accelerated depreciation of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Money paid to the city to cover the cost associated with a
decrease in the useful life of a public right-of-way caused by excavation.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the City Administrator to
carry out inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
   DISRUPTIVE FEE. The penalty imposed as a result of the adverse impact on
city citizens and others who are required to alter travel routes and times
resulting from right-of-way obstructions.
   DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT. That portion of the city zoned B-2 General
Business, and the M-1 Industrial area adjacent to the B-2 General Business
Zone.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a clear and immediate danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement in order to restore
service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible thing in any right-of-way; but shall not include
boulevard plantings or gardens planted or maintained in the right-of-way
between a person's property and the street curb.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT.
      (1)   The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be obtained before
a person may excavate in a right-of-way.
      (2)   An EXCAVATION PERMIT allows the holder to excavate that part of the
right-of-way described in the permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs.
   IN. When used in conjunction with right-of-way, means over, above, in,
within, on or under a right-of-way.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free and
open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way by
placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way for the duration
specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a registrant to cover the
costs.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural or corporate person, business association or other
business entity including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole
proprietorship, a political subdivision, a public or private agency of any
kind, a utility, a successor or assign of any of the foregoing, or any other
legal entity which has or seeks to have equipment in any right-of-way.
   PROBATION. The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions
of this chapter.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. One year from the date that a person has been notified
in writing that they have been put on probation.
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment located in any right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or any equipment in the right-of-way.
   REPAIR. The temporary construction work necessary to make the right-of-way
useable for travel.
   RESTORATION BOND. A performance bond, a letter of credit or cash deposit
posted to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to assure that right-of-
way excavation and obstruction work is completed in both a timely and quality
manner.
   RESTORATION COST. An amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
cover the cost of restoration.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition that existed before the commencement of the work.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface and space above and below a public roadway,
highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the city
has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes
and utility easements of the city.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit,
or both, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes but is not limited to:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02 subdivisions 4 and 6, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Telecommunications, pipeline, community antenna television, fire
and alarm communications, water, electricity, light, heat, cooling energy or
power services;
      (3)   The services provided by a corporation organized for the purposes
set forth in M.S. § 301B.01, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   The services provided by a district heating or cooling system; and
      (5)   Cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Chapter 238, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHTS-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the public right-of-
way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the public right-of-way, that
is used or is intended to be used for transporting telecommunication or other
voice or data information.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, a cable communication system defined
and regulated under M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time,
and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or electric
energy services are not telecommunications right-of-way users.
   UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT. Equipment in the right-of-way which has remained unused
for 1 year and for which the registrant is unable to provide proof that it has
either a plan to begin using it within the next 12 months or a potential
purchaser or user of the equipment.
(Ord. –, § 301.02, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Council is responsible for the administration of the rights-of-way,
right-of-way permits and the ordinances related thereto. The Council may
delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Ord. –, § 301.03, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.004 UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The city may create a Utility Coordination Committee.
      (1)   If created, this Committee shall be voluntary and advisory to the
City Council.
      (2)   It will be composed of any registrants that wish to assist the city
in obtaining information and by making recommendations regarding ways to take
greater responsibility for the right-of-way, and to improve the process of
performing construction work therein.
   (B)   The City Council may determine the size of the Committee and shall
appoint members from a list of registrants that have expressed a desire to
assist the city.
(Ord. –, § 301.04, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.005 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   Each person who occupies, uses or seeks to occupy or use, the
right-of-way or any equipment in the right-of-way, including by lease, sublease
or assignment, or who has, or seeks to have, equipment in any right-of-way must
register with the City Council.
      (2)   Registration will consist of providing application information and
paying a registration fee.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate or perform any other work on, or use any equipment or any part
thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City
Council.
(Ord. –, § 301.05, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.006 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the Administrator at
the time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Shall be on a form approved by the city;
         (b)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or is covered by self insurance which the Council determines to
provide the city with protections equivalent to that of a Minnesota licensed
insurance company, legally independent from the registrant;
         (c)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of equipment in the right-of-way by the
registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees, including, but not
limited to, protection against liability arising from completed operations,
damage of underground equipment and collapse of property.
         (d)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (e)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy; and
         (f)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Council in amounts sufficient to protect the city and carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   A copy of the person's certificate of authority from the Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or federal agency, where
the person is lawfully required to have a certificate from the Commission or
other state or federal agency; and
      (5)   Other information as the city may require.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the Administrator information
as to changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
(Ord. –, § 301.06, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.007 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan with the
Council.
      (2)   The plan shall be submitted using a format designated by the city
and shall contain the information determined by the Council to be necessary to
facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of excavations and
obstructions of rights-of-way.
      (3)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
next-year project); and
         (b)   The tentative locations and estimated beginning and ending dates
for all projects contemplated for the 5 years following the next calendar year
(in this section, a 5-year project).
      (4)   The term PROJECT in this section shall include both next-year
projects and 5-year projects.
      (5)   By January 1 of each year the Administrator will have available for
inspection in the Administrator's office a composite list of all projects of
which the Council has been informed in the annual plans. All registrants are
responsible for keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (6)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the Council and all other
registrants of all changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may, for good
cause shown, allow a registrant to submit additional next-year projects.
      (2)   Good cause includes, but is not limited to, the criteria set forth
in §
90.016 below concerning the discretionary issuance of permits.
(Ord. –, § 301.07, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.008 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the Administrator to do so.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specked in the permit unless the person:
      (1)   Makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit
before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Disruptive fee. Notwithstanding division (B) above, even if a new
permit or permit extension is granted, the Administrator shall establish and
impose a disruptive fee as a civil penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-
way excavation, obstruction, repair or restoration.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed at all times at the indicated work site and shall be
available for inspection by the Administrator
   (E)   Residential driveway exception. Construction or reconstruction of
residential driveways are exempt from the permit fees and registration
requirements of this section. An excavation permit is required.
(Ord. –, § 301.08, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.009 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit is made to the City Council.
   (B)   Right-of-way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Registration with the Council pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed equipment;
      (3)   Payment of all money due to the city for:
         (a)   Permit fees and costs;
         (b)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
         (c)   Any loss, damage or expense suffered by the city because of
applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way or any
emergency actions taken by the city; and
         (d)   Franchise fees, if applicable.
      (4)   When an excavation permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional equipment, and the posting of a restoration bond for the additional
equipment is insufficient, the posting of an additional or larger restoration
bond for the additional equipment may be required.
(Ord. –, § 301.09, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.010 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the Council determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter, the Administrator may issue a
permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Council may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure the structural
integrity of the right-of-way, to protect the property and safety of other
users of the right-of-way and to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to
the traveling public.
(Ord. –, § 301.10, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.011 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The excavation permit fee shall be established
by the Council in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city cost; and
      (2)   Degradation cost, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstructive permit fee. The obstruction permit fee shall be
established by the Council and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the
city cost.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees.
      (1)   No excavation permit or obstruction permit shall be issued without
payment of the fees before the issuance of a permit unless the applicant shall
agree to pay the fees within 30 days of billing therefor.
      (2)   All permit fees shall be doubled during a probationary period.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
Council has revoked for a breach as are not refundable.
   (E)   Use of permit fees. All obstruction and excavation permit fees shall
be used solely for city management, construction, maintenance and repair costs
of the right-of-way.
(Ord. –, § 301.11, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.012 RIGHT-OF-WAY REPAIR AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing.
      (1)   The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the repair and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not
be done because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
90.015 below.
      (2)   In addition to repairing its own work, the permittee must restore
the general area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including the paving
and its foundations, to the same condition that existed before the commencement
of the work and must inspect the area of the work and use reasonable care to
maintain the same condition for 36 months thereafter.
   (B)   Repair and restoration.
      (1)   Permittee shall repair its own work.
      (2)   In addition, in its application for an excavation permit, the
permittee may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
         (a)   City restoration.
               1.   If the permittee chooses to have the city restore the
right-of-way, it shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing.
               2.   If, during the 36 months following the restoration, the
pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of repairing the pavement.
         (b)   Permittee restoration.
               1.   If the permittee chooses to restore the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
restoration bond in an amount determined by the Council to be sufficient to
cover the cost of restoring the right-of-way to its pre-excavation condition.
               2.   If, 36 months after completion of the restoration of the
right-of-way, the Council determines that the right-of-way has been properly
restored, the surety on the restoration bond shall be released.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with the Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be
completed within 5 calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
90.015
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. Int hat event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under
the construction performance bond.
(Ord. –, § 301.12, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.013 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the Public Works Department, whether or not it is a
joint application by 2 or more registrants or a single application, are not
required to pay the obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee.
   (C)   Shared fees.
      (1)   Registrants who apply for permits for the same obstruction or
excavation, which the Public Works Department does not perform or participate,
may share in the payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee.
      (2)   Registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will
pay and indicate the same on their applications.
(Ord. –, § 301.13, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.014 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area.
      (1)   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of the right-of-
way specified in the permit.
      (2)   No permittee may do any work outside the area specified in the
permit, except as provided herein.
      (3)   Any permittee which determines that an area greater than that
specified in the permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in
that greater area:
         (a)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional
fees required thereby; and
         (b)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates.
      (1)   A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates specified in the
permit.
      (2)   No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or,
except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
      (3)   If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it
must apply for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the
new permit or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date
of the previous permit.
      (4)   This supplementary application must be done before the permit end
date.
(Ord. –, § 301.14, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.015 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws.
      (1)   Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not relieve permittee of its
duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses and authority and to pay
all fees required by any other city, county, state or federal rules, laws or
regulations.
      (2)   A permittee shall comply with all requirements of local, state and
federal laws, including M.S. §§ 216D.01 through .09 “One Call Excavation Notice
System,” as they may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
Council, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way.
      (1)   A permittee shall not so obstruct a right-of-way that the natural
free and clear passage of water through the gutters or other waterways shall be
interfered with.
      (2)   Private vehicles may not be parked within or next to a permit area.
      (3)   The loading or unloading of trucks next to a permit area is
prohibited unless specifically authorized by the permit.
(Ord. –, § 301.15, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.016 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Mandatory denial. Except in an emergency, no right-of-way permit will
be granted:
      (1)   To any person required to be registered who has not done so;
      (2)   To any person required to file an annual report but has failed to
do so;
      (3)   For any next-year project not listed in the construction and major
maintenance plan required under;
      (4)   For any project which requires the excavation of any portion of a
right-of-way which was constructed or reconstructed within the preceding 5
years;
      (5)   To any person who has failed within the past 3 years to comply, or
is presently not in full compliance, with the requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   To any person as to whom there exists grounds for the revocation of
a permit; or
      (7)   If, in the discretion of the Council, the issuance of a permit for
the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or interfere with an
exhibition, celebration, festival or any other event.
      (8)   The Council, in exercising this discretion, shall be guided by the
safety and convenience of ordinary travel of the public over the right-of-way,
and by considerations relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Permissive denial.
      (1)   The Council may deny a permit to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and convenience of
ordinary travel over the right-of-way, or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its users.
      (2)   The Council may consider 1 of more of the following factors:
         (a)   The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is
sought is available;
         (b)   The competing demands for the particular space in the right-of-
way;
         (c)   The availability of other locations in the right-of-way;
         (d)   The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the
right-of-way that affect location of equipment in the right-of-way;
         (e)   The degree of compliance of the applicant with the terms and
conditions of its franchise,
         (f)   The degree of disruption to surrounding communities and
businesses that will result from the use of that part of the right-of-way;
         (g)   The condition and age of the right-of-way, and whether and when
it is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; and
         (h)   The balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and
damage to the right-of-way, against the benefits to that part of the public
served by the expansion into additional parts of the right-of-way.
   (C)   Discretionary issuance. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.016(A)(3) and (4), the Council may issue a permit in any case where the
permit is necessary:
      (1)   To prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer of the
permit applicant;
      (2)   To allow the customer to materially improve its utility service; or
      (3)   To allow a new economic development project, or otherwise required
by law; and where the permit applicant did not have knowledge of the hardship,
the plans for improvement of service, or the development project when the
applicant was required to submit its list of next-year projects.
   (D)   Permits for additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the
provisions of §
90.016(A)(3) above, the Council may issue a permit to a registrant who was
allowed under §
90.007(B), to submit an additional next-year project, the permit to be subject
to all other conditions and requirements of law, including conditions as may be
imposed under §
90.010.
(Ord. –, § 301.16, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.017 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   The installation and maintenance of mailboxes or receptacles for the
receiving and sending of mail by residents is permitted within the right-of-way
of the public streets subject to the standards and regulations of the United
States Postal Service and standards and regulations as may from time to time be
promulgated by the city not otherwise set forth in this section.
   (B)   Residents may continue to use post office boxes at the local post
office. The use of street receptacles is not required.
   (C)   The mailbox must be installed along the side of the street, and in a
manner so as to not interfere with or impede the normal flow of vehicle
traffic.
   (D)   (1)   Residents replacing existing mailboxes or adding a new mailbox
will apply for a permit at City Hall. All replacement mailboxes or new installs
shall be clustered, if possible.
      (2)   A permit will be obtained from the city and must be approved by the
local postmaster, City Administrator and City Public Works Department. There
will be no fee for this permit.
   (E)   Any handicapped or elderly person who would have difficulty using a
group box location may be exempt from this section upon notification of
handicap or physical condition to the City Administrator and the local
postmaster.
   (F)   Group mailbox stands shall not be located in any cul-de-sacs if
possible. Box locations will be allowed on streets entering and leaving the
cul-de-sac.
   (G)   The City of Mapleton shall have no obligation to ensure that during
snow removal operations, snow is plowed in a manner so as to permit access to
any mailbox. It shall be the obligation of the owner of the mailbox to remove
any necessary snow to permit postal service access to the mailbox.
   (H)   Maintenance of the mailbox and platforms shall be the responsibility
of the residents served.
   (I)   (1)   The City of Mapleton will not paint “No Parking” lines on the
curb by any mailbox.
      (2)   There shall be no parking in front of a mailbox within the City of
Mapleton during the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday,
which would prevent the distribution of mail by the United States Postal
Service.
      (3)   Postal carriers must be able to drive into and out of the delivery
area without backing up.
      (4)   The City Council shall have the power to order the removal of any
mailbox or support thereof which violates the requirement of this section.
   (J)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
the penalty upon conviction for a fine to the amount as provided for a petty
misdemeanor by state statue as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 701.15, passed 9-5-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT; SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 90.030 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, repair and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with The Standard
Specifications for Street Openings as promulgated by the Council and at a
location as required by §
90.036 below.
(Ord. –, § 301.17, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.031 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the Administrator and/or Public Works
Department.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
Public Works Department and to all others as authorized by law for inspection
at all reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the
work.
   (C)   Authority of Administrator and Public Works Department.
      (1)   At the time of inspection the Administrator or Public Works
Department may order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious
threat to the life, health, safety or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Administrator or Public Works Department may issue an order to
the registrant for any work which does not conform to the applicable standards,
conditions or codes.
      (3)   The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will be
cause for revocation of the permit. Within 10 days after issuance of the order,
the registrant shall present proof to the Administrator or Public Works
Department that the violation has been corrected.
      (4)   If proof has not been presented within the required time, the city
may revoke the permit.
(Ord. –, § 301.18, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.032 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Administrator or
Public Works Department of any event regarding its equipment which it considers
to be an emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are
necessary to respond to the emergency.
      (2)   Within 2 business days after the occurrence of the emergency the
registrant shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated
therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself
into compliance with this chapter for the actions it took in response to the
emergency.
      (3)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
equipment, the city may attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency.
      (4)   In any event, the city may take whatever action it deems necessary
to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant
whose equipment occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the normal fee for
the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the legislative code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. –, § 301.19, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.033 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the
Administrator of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. –, § 301.20, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.034 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach.
      (1)   Registrants hold permits issued pursuant to this chapter as a
privilege and not as a right. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation or any condition of the permit.
      (2)   A substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way
permit;
         (b)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the
right-of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or
deceit upon the city or its citizens;
         (c)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
         (d)   The failure to maintain the required bonds and/or insurance;
         (e)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; or
         (f)   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to §
90.031 above.
   (B)   Written notice of breach.
      (1)   If the Administrator determines that the permittee has committed a
substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or any condition of the permit the Administrator shall make a
written demand upon the permittee to remedy the violation.
      (2)   The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. Further, a substantial breach, as stated above, will
allow the Administrator, at his or her discretion, to place additional or
revised conditions on the permit.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.
      (1)   Within 24 hours of receiving notification of the breach, permittee
shall contact the Administrator with a plan, acceptable to the Administrator
and Public Works Department, for its correction.
      (2)   Permittee’s failure to so contact the Administrator or Public Works
Department, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
      (3)   Further, permittee’s failure to so contact the city, or the
permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or permittee's failure to
reasonably implement the approved plan, shall automatically place the permittee
on probation for 1 full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the Council may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for 1 full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly
outside of the permit.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for 1 full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. –, § 301.21, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.035 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, each registrant shall
provide to the city information indicating the horizontal and vertical
location, relative to the boundaries of the right-of-way, of all equipment
which it owns or over which it has control and which is located in any right-
of-way (mapping data).
      (2)   Mapping data shall be provided with the specificity and in the
format requested by the Public Works Department.
         (3)   Within 6 months after the acquisition, installation or
construction of additional equipment or any relocation, abandonment or disuse
of existing equipment, each registrant shall supplement the mapping data
required herein.
      (4)   Each registrant shall, within 6 months after the date of passage of
this chapter, submit a plan to the city specifying in detail the steps it will
take to comply with the requirements of this section.
      (5)   The plan shall provide for the submission of all mapping data:
         (a)   For the Downtown Business District within 2 years after the date
of passage of this chapter; and
         (b)   For the remainder of the city as early as may be reasonable and
practical, but not later than 5 years after the date of passage of this
chapter.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be submitted by
all registrants for all equipment which is to be installed or constructed after
the date of passage of this chapter at the time any permits are sought under
this chapter.
      (7)   After 6 months after the passage of this chapter, a new registrant,
or a registrant which has not submitted a plan as required above, shall submit
complete and accurate mapping data for all its equipment at the time any
permits are sought under this chapter.
   (B)   Telecommunication equipment. Information on existing facilities and
equipment of telecommunications right-of-way users need only be supplied in the
form maintained by the telecommunications right-of-way user.
   (C)   Trade secret information.
      (1)   At the request of any registrant, any information requested by the
city, which qualifies as a trade-secret under M.S. § 13.37(b), as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be treated as trade secret information as
detailed therein.
      (2)   With respect to the provision of mapping data, the city may
consider unique circumstances from time to time required to obtain mapping
data.
(Ord. –, § 301.22, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.036 LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Undergrounding. Unless otherwise permitted by an existing franchise or
M.S. § 216B.34, as it may be amended from time to time, or unless existing
above-ground equipment is repaired or replaced, new construction and the
installation of new equipment and replacement of old equipment shall be done
underground or contained within buildings or other structures in conformity
with applicable codes.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The Public Works Department may assign specific corridors within
the right-of-way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for
each type of equipment that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city
expects will someday be located within the right-of-way.
      (2)   All excavation, obstruction or other permits issued by the Council
involving the installation or replacement of equipment shall designate the
proper corridor for the equipment at issue.
      (3)   Any registrant whose equipment is in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the Public Works Department
shall, no later than at the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of
the area where its equipment is located, move that equipment to its assigned
position within the right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the
Public Works Department for good cause shown, upon consideration of factors as
the remaining economic life of the facilities, public safety, customer service
needs and hardship to the registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance.
      (1)   One year after the passage of this chapter, any equipment found in
a right-of-way that has not been registered shall be deemed to be a nuisance.
      (2)   The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the equipment and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space.
      (1)   To protect health and safety, the Council shall have the power to
prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional equipment within the
right-of-way if there is insufficient space to accommodate all of the requests
of registrants or persons to occupy and use the right-of-way.
      (2)   In making decisions, the Council shall strive to the extent
possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way,
but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the
public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-
of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing equipment in the right-of-way and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. –, § 301.23, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.037 RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A registrant must promptly and at its own expense, with due regard for
seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its equipment and
facilities in the right-of-way whenever the Public Works Department requests
the removal and relocation, and shall restore the right-of-way to the same
condition it was in prior to the removal or relocation.
   (B)   The Public Works Department may make a request to prevent interference
by the registrant's equipment or facilities with:
      (1)   A present or future city use of the right-of-way;
      (2)   A public improvement undertaken by the city;
      (3)   An economic development project in which the city has an interest
or investment;
      (4)   When the public health, safety and welfare require it; or
      (5)   When necessary to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person shall not be required to
remove or relocate its equipment from any right-of-way which has been vacated
in favor of a nongovernmental entity unless and until the reasonable costs
thereof are first paid to the person therefor.
(Ord. –, § 301.24, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.038 PRE-EXCAVATION EQUIPMENT LOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01
through 216D.09 “One Call Excavation Notice System,” as they may be amended
from time to time, before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each
registrant who has equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the
horizontal and approximate vertical placement of all the equipment.
   (B)   Any registrant whose equipment is less that 20 inches below a concrete
or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation contractor
to establish the exact location of its equipment and the best procedure for
excavation.
(Ord. –, § 301.25, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.039 DAMAGE TO OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move a registrant's equipment to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible.
   (B)   The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (C)   Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
equipment in the right-of-way which it or its equipment damages.
   (D)   Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
damage to the equipment of another registrant caused during the city's response
to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's equipment.
(Ord. –, § 301.26, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   (A)   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way which
contains the equipment of a registrant, and if the vacation does not require
the relocation of registrant or permittee equipment, the city shall reserve, to
and for itself and all registrants having equipment in the vacated right-of-
way, the right to install, maintain and operate any equipment in the vacated
right-of-way and to enter upon the right-of-way at any time for the purpose of
reconstructing, inspecting, maintaining or repairing the same.
   (B)   Relocation of equipment. If the vacation requires the relocation of
registrant or permittee equipment; and if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the registrant or permittee, the registrant or permittee must pay
the relocation costs; or if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city,
the registrant or permittee must pay the relocation costs unless otherwise
agreed to by the city and the registrant or permittee; or if the vacation
proceedings are initiated by a person or persons other than the registrant or
permittee, the other person or persons must pay the relocation costs.
(Ord. –, § 301.27, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.041 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Limitation of liability. By reason of the acceptance of a registration
or the grant of a right-of-way permit, the city does not assume any liability:
      (1)   For injuries to persons, damage to property or loss of service
claims by parties other than the registrant or the city; or
      (2)   For claims or penalties of any sort resulting from the
installation, presence, maintenance or operation of equipment by registrants or
activities of registrants.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   By registering with the Council, a registrant agrees, or by
accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee is required, to defend,
indemnify and hold the city whole and harmless from all costs, liabilities and
claims for damages of any kind arising out of the construction, presence,
installation, maintenance, repair or operation of its equipment, or out of any
activity undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a right-of-way
permit.
      (2)   It further agrees that it will not bring, nor cause to be brought,
any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages, or seeking any other
relief against the city for any claim nor for any award arising out of the
presence, installation, maintenance or operation of its equipment, or any
activity undertaken in or near a right-of-way, whether or not the act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a right-of-way
permit.
      (3)   The foregoing does not indemnify the city for its own negligence
except for claims arising out of or alleging the city's negligence where
negligence arises out of or is primarily related to the presence, installation,
construction, operation, maintenance or repair of the equipment by the
registrant or on the registrant's behalf, including, but not limited to, the
issuance of permits and inspection of plans or work.
      (4)   This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense
or immunity otherwise available to the registrant or to the city; and the
registrant, in defending any action on behalf of the city, shall be entitled to
assert in any action every defense or immunity that the city could assert in
its own behalf.
(Ord. –, § 301.28, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.042 FUTURE USES.
   (A)   In placing any equipment, or allowing it to be placed, in the right-
of-way the city is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any
registrant's equipment which is already in place.
   (B)   No registrant is entitled to rely on the provisions of this chapter,
and no special duty is created as to any registrant. This chapter is enacted to
protect the general health, welfare and safety of the public at large.
(Ord. –, § 301.29, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.043 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue its operations in the city must either:
      (1)   Provide information satisfactory to the city that the registrant's
obligations for its equipment in the right-of-way under this chapter have been
lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      (2)   Submit to the city a proposal and instruments for transferring
ownership of its equipment to the city. If a registrant proceeds under this
clause, the city may, at its option:
         (a)   Purchase the equipment;
         (b)   Require the registrant, at its own expense, to remove it; or
         (c)   Require the registrant to post a bond in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the city for reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing
the equipment.
   (B)   Abandoned equipment.
      (1)   Equipment of a registrant who fails to comply with division (A)
above, and which, for 2 years, remains unused shall be deemed to be abandoned.
      (2)   Abandoned equipment is deemed to be a nuisance.
      (3)   The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance;
         (b)   Taking possession of the equipment and restoring it to a useable
condition; or
         (c)   Requiring removal of the equipment by the registrant, or the
registrant's successor in interest.
   (C)   Removal. Any registrant who has unusable and abandoned equipment in
any right-of-way shall remove it from that right-of-way during the next
scheduled excavation, unless this requirement is waived by the Council.
(Ord. –, § 301.30, passed 9-2-1997)
§ 90.044 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   (A)   The city by the granting of a right-of-way permit, or by registering a
person under this chapter does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive,
impair or lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be
hereafter granted to the city under the constitution and statutes of the State
of Minnesota (or the Charter of the city) to regulate the use of the right-of-
way by the permittee; and the permittee by its acceptance of a right-of-way
permit or of registration under this chapter agrees that all lawful powers and
rights, regulatory power or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may
be from time to time vested in or reserved to the city, shall be in full force
and effect and subject to the exercise thereof by the city at any time.
   (B)   A permittee or registrant is deemed to acknowledge that its rights are
subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce
general ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is
deemed to agree to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances
enacted by the city pursuant to those powers.
   (C)   Any conflict between the provisions of a registration or of a right-
of-way permit and any other present or future lawful exercise of the city's
regulatory or police powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter.
(Ord. –, § 301.31, passed 9-2-1997)
LOCAL IMPROVEMENT POLICY
§ 90.055 PETITIONS.
   No petition for construction of any public improvement outlined in this
policy shall be accepted or acted upon by the Council unless it is filed with
the City Administrator on or before October 1, of the year prior to the year of
requested construction.
(1985 Code, § 303.01)
§ 90.056 CLASSIFICATION OF PROJECTS.
   (A)   General. In general, public improvements are divided into the 3
classes specified in the following division according to their respective
benefit to the whole city and to the property specially served by the
improvement, taking into account past city practice.
   (B)   Class A.
      (1)   Class A improvements are those which are of general benefit to the
city at large, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Public buildings, except a building which is part of an
improvement described in 1 of the following divisions;
         (b)   Any public park, playground or recreational facility;
         (c)   The installation and maintenance of street lighting systems; and
         (d)   Any other improvement not described in M.S. § 429.021
subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any like improvement shall be financed from general city funds and
not from special assessments.
   (C)   Class B.
      (1)   Class B improvements are those which are of benefit to more than
the abutting or nearby property.
      (2)   Class B improvements include:
         (a)   Trunk water mains larger than 6 inches in residential areas;
         (b)   Trunk water mains larger than 12 inches in commercial/industrial
areas;
         (c)   Trunk sanitary sewer mains larger than 8 inches;
         (d)   Arterial street construction; and
         (e)   The construction of off-street parking facilities.
   (D)   Class C. Class C improvements are those which are primarily, if not
exclusively, of benefit to property abutting or in the area of the improvement,
including:
      (1)   The construction of sidewalks;
      (2)   The construction of lateral water mains no larger than 6 inches in
diameter in residential areas;
      (3)   The construction of lateral water mains no larger than 12 inches in
diameter in commercial/industrial areas;
      (4)   The construction of lateral sanitary sewer mains no larger than 8
inches in diameter;
      (5)   The construction of curbs and gutters;
      (6)   Residential street construction and/or reconstruction.
(1985 Code, § 303.02)
§ 90.057 FINANCING CLASS B AND C IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to finance Class B and C improvements by
the methods prescribed in §§
90.058,
90.059 and
90.060 below.
   (B)   The apportionment of the cost between benefited property and the city
at large and the method of levying assessments prescribed in those sections
shall be followed in each case unless the Council, by resolution, finds that
because of special circumstances stated in the resolution, a different policy
is necessary or desirable in the particular case.
   (C)   Any local improvement described in M.S. § 429.021, as it may be
amended from time to time, and not placed in Class A, B or C by §
90.056 above shall be financed as the Council determines to be most feasible
and equitable in each case.
(1985 Code, § 303.03)
§ 90.058 ASSESSMENT REGULATIONS FOR CLASS B IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Trunk lines; trunk water mains and sanitary sewers. When a water main
or sanitary sewer is laid across or adjacent to unplatted property, the city
shall not defer the assessment against the unplatted property if the assessment
would be made for such an improvement in the case of platted property.
      (1)   When a trunk water main or sanitary sewer is constructed and is to
serve also as a lateral water main or sanitary sewer for abutting property, the
abutting property shall be assessed for the cost of an equivalent lateral water
main or sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The city will pay the cost of the trunk water main or sanitary
sewer, minus the cost of the lateral water main or sanitary sewer, that is
assessed.
      (3)   This city cost will be paid for from the appropriate city funds.
   (B)   Arterial street construction.
      (1)   An arterial street is one which is greater than 36 feet wide and
greater than a 7-ton capacity.
      (2)   When an arterial street is paved, the cost of the pavement on a 36-
foot, 7-ton roadway, shall be assessed against the benefited property on the
basis of frontage on the abutting street.
      (3)   When the standards for arterial street construction are higher than
those the city would use for a residential street, the cost to be assessed to
the benefited residential property shall be based on the cost of residential
street construction.
      (4)   The remainder of the cost shall be paid from appropriate funds, or
from the property benefitting from the higher standards.
   (C)   Storm Sewer Improvement Tax District. Improvements to the storm sewer
system in the established storm sewer improvement tax district will be financed
in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 444, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(1985 Code, § 303.04)
§ 90.059 ASSESSMENT REGULATIONS FOR CLASS C IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. The cost of the construction of sidewalks shall be
assessed, 100%, on the basis of frontage against property abutting the side of
the street on which the sidewalk is located.
   (B)   Water and sewer.
      (1)   The cost of replacing lateral water mains shall be evenly split
between the abutting properties or benefitted properties, and the city.
      (2)   The 50% of the cost of lateral water mains to be paid by the
abutting properties or benefitted properties, shall be assessed on the basis of
the number of hook-ups.
      (3)   The cost of lateral water mains shall include the cost of hydrants
and valves.
      (4)   The total cost of replacing lateral sanitary sewer lines shall be
paid by the city.
      (5)   Hook-up shall be defined as the connection by the property owner to
the city water or sewer service as defined herein. The hook-up charge shall be
as determined by the Council.
   (C)   Streets.
      (1)   The cost of construction or reconstruction of any street, including
curb and gutter, shall be assessed on the basis of frontage.
      (2)   In the case of the initial construction of an intersection, the
cost of the initial construction of the intersection shall be paid by the city,
and abutting property owners shall be assessed 85% of the remaining cost of the
project.
      (3)   In the case of the reconstruction of an intersection, the abutting
property owners shall be assessed 50% of the cost of the project and the city
shall pay the remaining 50% of the cost.
(1985 Code, § 303.05) (Am. Ord. 303.05, passed 10-21-1988; Am. Ord. 303.05,
passed 9-18-1989)
§ 90.060 SPECIAL RULES.
   (A)   Corner lots.
      (1)   For any assessment made on the basis of frontage, except for water
or sanitary sewer, corner lots shall be assessed for footage along the front of
the lot plus 1/3 of the side footage.
      (2)   The other 2/3 of the side footage shall be spread among all other
assessed properties.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment for a lateral water main or sanitary
sewer, corner lots shall be assessed for the footage along the front side of
the lot, unless the lot is large enough to accommodate another building which
would be benefitted by the project.
   (B)   Intersections.
      (1)   The cost of water and sewer improvements shall be included as part
of the total assessable cost. In the case of the initial construction of an
intersection, the cost associated with the intersection shall be paid by the
city.
      (2)   In the case of the reconstruction of an intersection, the cost
shall be paid equally by the city and abutting property owners.
   (C)   Adjusted frontage. When the amount of an assessment is determined by
frontage, an equivalent front footage shall be determined according to 1 of the
following rules when an irregular lot requires a like adjustment to maintain
fairness in the assessment:
      (1)   Front footage shall be measured at setback on cul-de-sacs and
sharply curved streets and irregularly shaped lots;
      (2)   Equivalent front footage shall be determined by dividing the square
footage of the lot by the general lot depth of the subdivision for pie-shaped
lots and irregular shaped lots where other rules do not apply;
      (3)   Where frontage curves so greatly as to give a general appearance of
a corner, the lot shall be considered a corner lot and equivalent front
footage, as well as side footage where required, determined on the basis of an
irregularly shaped lot; or
      (4)   Where a lot consists of a combination of rectangular and pie shaped
or irregular portions, the equivalent front footage shall be determined as the
sum of the straight front footage plus the remainder in accordance with
applicable rules.
(1985 Code, § 303.06) (Am. Ord. 303.06, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 90.061 FEDERAL, STATE AND COUNTY AID USE.
   (A)   If the city receives financial assistance from the federal government,
the state or the county to defray a portion of the cost of any improvement
project, that aid shall be used first to reduce the share of the project cost
which would be met from general city funds according to the assessment formula
contained in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the aid is more than the amount of the improvement cost to be borne
by the city, the remainder of the aid so received shall be placed in the
appropriate city improvement fund or distributed in another manner as the
Council shall determine.
(1985 Code, § 303.07)
§ 90.062 PROCEDURAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General. In addition to conforming to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 429,
as it may be amended from time to time, proceedings for a public improvement to
be paid wholly or partly by special assessments shall conform to the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Findings on market value increase. Before determining proposed special
assessments on any project, the city shall gather as much evidence as is
practical and useful to show that the aggregate benefits to property to be
assessed do not exceed the cost of the project and that each proposed
individual assessment does not exceed the increase in market value on the
property on which the assessment is to be made.
   (C)   Waivers and assessment hearing.
      (1)   After receiving bids for a project, the Council may, at its
discretion, request submittal of signed waivers of the right to appeal the
assessment when levied or may elect to hold a public assessment hearing to
determine if there is substantial objection to the proposed assessments.
      (2)   If the Council elects to hold a public assessment hearing, the
contract for the project shall not be awarded until the 30-day appeal period
has expired.
(1985 Code, § 303.08)
§ 90.063 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT.
   (A)   After the adoption of the assessment roll of any improvement project
by the City Council, the owner of any property assessed may, prior to the
certification of the assessment or payment of the first installment to the
County Auditor, pay to the City Administrator all or any portion of the
assessment, but not less than $100.
   (B)   The remaining unpaid balance shall be spread over the period of time
established by the Council for installment payment of the assessment.
(1985 Code, § 303.09)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
§ 90.064 CERTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   After the adoption of any special assessment by the Council, the City
Administrator shall transmit a certified duplicate of the assessment roll with
each installment, including interest, set forth separately to the County
Auditor to be extended on the proper tax lists of the county.
(1985 Code, § 303.10)
§ 90.065 PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a permanent improvement
revolving fund of the city to be held and administered by the City
Administrator, separate and apart from all other funds of the city, for the
purpose of financing local improvements.
   (B)   Source of funds. The funds shall be a permanent fund of the city and
the moneys necessary for its maintenance shall be provided by taxation, by the
appropriation of available moneys from other funds of the city, and/or by the
issuance and sale of permanent improvement revolving fund bonds of the city as
deemed necessary from time to time by the Council.
   (C)   Disposition of funds.
      (1)   Moneys in the fund shall be used only as directed by resolution of
the Council for the purpose of advancing to local improvement funds the cost of
improvement for which assessments are to be levied.
      (2)   All the moneys so advanced to an improvement fund shall be restored
as soon as sufficient moneys are received in the improvement fund, together
with interest at a rate fixed by the Council at not less than 5.25% per annum
during the time for which moneys have been so furnished.
   (D)   Investment. Whenever there are moneys in the fund not immediately
needed for local improvements, moneys shall be invested by the City
Administrator under the direction of the Council in any securities authorized
for investment of municipal funds by law.
   (E)   Transfer of surplus. When the fund accumulates moneys in excess of any
amounts reasonably anticipated to be needed for local improvement fund
advances, the Council may, by resolution adopted by a 4/5 vote, declare any
part of the excess to be surplus and transfer it to the general fund.
(1985 Code, § 303.11)
§ 90.066 INTEREST RATE.
   The interest rate shall be set by the Council on each special assessment
project, and the rate of interest shall depend upon current market conditions.
(1985 Code, § 303.12)
§ 90.067 ASSESSMENT PERIOD.
   Assessments shall be spread over a period of time as the Council shall
approve.
(1985 Code, § 303.13)
§ 90.068 ADJUSTMENTS.
   In the event the literal application of the provisions outlined herein would
result in an inequitable distribution of special assessments, the City Council
reserves the right to adjust the policy so as to achieve a more equitable
distribution.
(1985 Code, § 303.14)
§ 90.069 GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this policy that the projects performed hereunder
shall apply only to projects in existing developments within the Mapleton city
limits.
   (B)   Projects shall mean the replacement of utilities in existing
developments and the placement of utilities in existing developments not
currently receiving city utility services.
   (C)   The financing of utilities in new developments shall be completed in
accordance with the city's Subdivision Ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 303.15)
UNIFORM ADDRESSING
§ 90.080 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that for the purpose of providing proper protection
of public and private property in the City of Mapleton, if is essential to
require visible approved addressing or identification for each separate public,
residential, commercial or industrial building.
(1985 Code, § 302.09)
§ 90.081 BUILDING NUMBERS.
   Each primary structure within the city limits shall be assigned an address.
The list of addresses of all primary structures within the city shall be held
at City Hall.
(1985 Code, § 302.10)
§ 90.082 LOCATION, SIZE AND SHAPE.
   (A)   All owners or occupants of residential, commercial and industrial
structures within the city shall display their assigned address numbers on the
outside of their primary structures, near the front door, for emergency
purposes.
   (B)   The address number must be located on a primary structure surface
facing the public road clearly visible from the road, address numbers shall be
no smaller than 4 inches and colors should be in strong contrast with
background.
(1985 Code, § 302.11)
§ 90.083 MULTIPLE-DWELLING NUMBERING.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of every multiple
dwelling building containing 2 or more rental units, and the owner or occupant
of every individually owned dwelling unit in any multiple unit building to
properly identify each dwelling unit by attaching identification numbers on or
adjacent to each entrance to the individual units.
   (B)   The owner or manager of any multiple dwelling building with common
entrances containing 2 units or more, whether the units are rental or
individually owned, shall provide signs, including directional arrows, easily
identifying the location of each dwelling unit in the building. The signs shall
be placed in an obvious location inside each entrance to the building.
(1985 Code, § 302.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.084 MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING NUMBERS.
   The occupant of the primary structure shall be responsible for keeping its
address numbers in good repair and clear of snow, dirt, debris or other
obstructions.
(1985 Code, § 302.13)
§ 90.085 TIME FOR COMPLIANCE.
   All owners of primary structures in the city shall comply with this chapter
within 45 days. All city licenses, applications and permits may be withheld
from the owners or occupants of primary structures if the address is not placed
or maintained in conformance with the chapter.
(1985 Code, § 302.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.086 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to comply with any section of this chapter shall constitute a petty
misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 302.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited conduct
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER. Any malt liquor containing not more than 7% alcohol by weight.
   PARK. A playground, recreation center or any other area in the city, owned
or used by the city and devoted to active or passive recreation.
(1985 Code, § 901.01)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park to:
   (A)   Bring or possess any glass beverage container into any park;
   (B)   Hurt, molest, harm, frighten, kill or trap any animal, wildlife,
reptile or bird;
   (C)   Have or discharge any pistol or revolver;
   (D)   Have or discharge any rifle, shotgun, BB gun, air gun or other weapon
in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring or air;
   (E)   Have or discharge any sling shot, bow and arrow or similar device; or
   (F)   Possess or consume any intoxicating beverages, other than beer.
(1985 Code, § 901.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Assessable Current Services; Obligation of Property Owners and Occupants
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish
   
92.03   Public health and safety hazards
   
92.04   Installation and repair of water service lines
   
92.05   Repair of sidewalks
   
92.06   Personal liability
   
92.07   Assessment
Nuisances
   
92.20   Public nuisance
   
92.21   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.22   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.23   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.24   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.25   Inoperable, abandoned or junked motor vehicles and trailers
   
92.26   Building maintenance and appearance
   
92.27   Duties of city officers
   
92.28   Abatement
   
92.29   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
92.40   Weed elimination
   
92.41   Jurisdiction
   
92.42   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.43   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
92.44   Notice of violations
   
92.45   Appeals
   
92.46   Abatement by city
   
92.47   Liability
ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES; OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURRENT SERVICE. As used in this subchapter means 1 or more of the
following: snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from
streets grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or
elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding
any hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be
amended from time to time; installation or repair of water service lines;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; and the operation of a street lighting system.
(1985 Code, § 302.01)
§ 92.02 SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Duty of owners and occupants.
      (1)   The owner and the occupant of any property adjacent to a public
sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk safe for pedestrians.
      (2)   No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to
remain on the walk longer than 36 hours after its deposit thereon.
         (a)   The full width of the sidewalk shall be cleared of snow, dirt or
rubbish within 36 hours after it has been deposited thereon or after the snow
has ceased to fall.
         (b)   Ice shall be removed within 36 hours after it has been formed on
sidewalks, or the sidewalk will be fully covered with sand, salt or a similar
substance.
   (B)   Removal by city.
      (1)   In the event the owner fails to remove the snow, dirt and rubbish,
a Public Works employee or a person hired by the city may remove from all
public sidewalks all snow, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible, beginning 36
hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall.
      (2)   In the event the owner fails to remove the ice or does not sand or
salt the ice, the Public Works Department or a person hired by the city may
remove the ice or sand or salt public sidewalks, beginning 36 hours after the
ice has formed.
      (3)   The Public Works Department or the person hired by the city shall
keep a record showing the cost of the removal or sanding or salting adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel, and shall deliver the information to the City
Administrator.
(Am. Ord. 302.02, passed 4-4-2006; Am. Ord. 92.02, passed 8-17-2010; Am. Ord.
92.02, passed 2-19-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   (A)   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards
from private property under city ordinance, the administrative officer
responsible for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal
or elimination against each parcel of property affected and annually deliver
the information to the City Administrator.
   (B)   This section does not apply to hazardous buildings under the hazardous
building law, M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be amended from time to
time.
(1985 Code, § 302.04)
§ 92.04 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city installs or repairs water service lines serving private
property under
Chapter 51 of this code, a Public Works employee shall keep a record of the
total cost of the installation or repair against the property and deliver the
information to the City Administrator annually by August 15 as to each parcel
of property on which the cost has not been paid.
(1985 Code, § 302.05)
§ 92.05 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Duty of owner.
      (1)   The owner of any property within the city abutting a public
sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians.
      (2)   Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the Council.
   (B)   Inspections; notice.
      (1)   A Public Works employee shall make inspections as are necessary to
determine that public sidewalks within the city are kept in repair and safe for
pedestrians.
      (2)   If he or she finds that any sidewalk abutting on private property
is unsafe and in need of repairs, he or she shall cause a notice to be served,
by registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner
of the property and the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the city
or cannot be found therein, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk repaired
and made safe within 40 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, a
Public Works employee will do so on behalf of the city, that the expense
thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid it will be made a special
assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   Repair by city.
      (1)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within 40 days after receipt of the
notice, a Public Works employee shall report the facts to the Council and the
Council shall by resolution order a Public Works employee to repair the
sidewalk and make it safe or order the work done by contract in accordance with
law.
      (2)   A Public Works employee shall keep a record of the total cost of
the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property and report that
information to the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 302.06)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current service
has been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of the service.
   (B)   As soon as the service has been completed and the cost to the owner
determined, the City Administrator, or other designated official, shall prepare
a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately
due and payable at the office of the City Administrator.
(Am. Ord. 302.02, passed 4-4-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   On or before October 15 of each year, the City Administrator shall
list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this subchapter.
   (B)   The Council may then spread the charges against property benefitted as
a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the Council may determine in each case.
(Am. Ord. 302.02, passed 4-4-2006)
NUISANCES
§ 92.20 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.21,
92.22 or
92.23 below, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for
which no sentence is specifically provided.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease;
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license; and
   (L)   Any other land use or condition found unreasonably to injure or
endanger the health of any member of the public.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace, safety
and general welfare:
   (A)   Interfering with, obstructing or rendering dangerous for passage, a
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public;
   (B)   Leaving or displaying anything for sale on public or private property,
except that an owner of an item for sale may display it on property that the
person owns or otherwise controls for not longer than 2 weeks;
   (C)   Trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions that prevent persons
from having a clear view of traffic approaching an intersection;
   (D)   Piling, storing or keeping of old machinery, junk, furniture,
household furnishings or appliances or component parts of them or other debris;
   (E)   Placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public property
of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances that may injure a
person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire;
   (F)   Depositing of, permitting or failing to remove, garbage, trash,
rubbish, bottles, cans and other refuse on any property, including large
quantities of organic debris and materials that accumulated by other than
natural means, except neatly maintained compost piles;
   (G)   Property that has been disturbed by construction, grading, or other
activity and is not seeded, sodded, or otherwise planted with a ground cover
within 240 days, unless the 240 days expires between November 1 and May 15, in
which case the ground cover must be established by the following July 15,
unless the city approves a time extension;
   (H)   The accumulation of any piles of firewood that are not:
      (1)   Neatly stacked; or
      (2)   Stacked or secured in a stable manner to avoid collapse.
   (I)   A structure, or a portion of a structure, located in a residential
zoning district, if the exterior is not completed in accordance with city-
approved construction plans within 180 days after the date that the city
building permit was issued;
   (J)   Construction materials, including piles of dirt, sand, and sod, left
in the open on property more than 60 days after construction has been completed
or a certificate of occupancy has been issued, whichever occurred first;
   (K)   A truck or other vehicle whose wheels or tires deposit mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or other material on any street or highway;
   (L)   Discarded construction material or other litter at a construction site
that is not placed in an adequate waste container or that is allowed to blow
around or off the site;
   (M)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (N)   Erosion or stockpiling of any material onto a public street that is
not part of a public improvement; or erosion or drainage from a property when
it is causing, or has the likelihood of causing, serious harm to neighboring
property or to natural resources such as significant trees, water bodies,
wetlands, and wetland buffers. SERIOUS HARM includes actual damage as well as
interference with reasonable use of the property;
   (O)   The intentional discharge of items such as leaves, grass clippings,
pet feces, solvents, antifreeze, oil, fireplace ashes, paint, and cement
reinsate into a street, storm sewer system, or water resource such as a wetland
or pond;
   (P)   Depositing of, or permitting the depositing of, pet feces upon ponds,
wetlands or upon any public right-of-way, public trail easement area, or
publically owned or controlled property;
   (Q)   Gravel driveways maintained in such a manner that the gravel erodes
into, or is placed in, a public street or a water resource such as a wetland,
creek, pond or lake;
   (R)   Encroachments onto publicly-owned property or tax-forfeited property
under public control without a legal right or permission from the public owner,
such as the placement of buildings or other objects, the dumping of organic
materials, the storing of privately-owned items, and the undertaking of
activities affecting the physical nature of the property such as mowing,
vegetation removal, or the application of fertilizer, pesticides, or
herbicides;
   (S)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 36 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (T)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (U)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (V)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefore and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (W)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (X)   (1)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet or repose
of another person.
      (2)   When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately.
      (3)   No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so.
      (4)   Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is
stopped.
   (Y)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (Z)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (AA)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (BB)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (CC)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (DD)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (EE)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (FF)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (GG)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive
to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of
vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health
or safety hazards from accumulation;
   (HH)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (II)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (JJ)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to
the person or property of anyone.
   (KK)   (1)    Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition.
            1.   No person shall make or cause to be made any distinctly and
loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value.
            2.   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restrictions of this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems, and the like.
            1.   No person shall use or operate or pennit the use or operation
of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system,
machine or other device for the production or reproduction of sound in a
distinct and loudly audible manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet
and comfort of any person nearby.
            2.   Operation of a like set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
other device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to
be plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in which
it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of the
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours 8:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 7:00 a.m and 9:00 p.m. on any
weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements.
         (a)   The Council may require any person applying for a change in
zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure, operation,
process, installation or alteration or project that may be considered a
potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form prescribed
by the Council.
         (b)   It shall evaluate each statement and take its evaluation into
account in approving or disapproving the license or permit applied for or the
zoning change requested.
   (LL)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.24 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Definitions.
      BACK YARD. An unoccupied open space, except for accessory buildings, on
the same lot with a building, between the rear lines of the building and the
rear line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
      FRONT YARD. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
front of the building projected to the sidelines of the lot.
      FRONT YARD AREA. This includes the front yard, side yard and side yard
adjacent to a city street (corner lot).
      SIDE YARD. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
between the building and sideline of the lot, and extending from the front yard
to the rear yard.
      SIDE YARD ADJACENT TO A CITY STREET (CORNER LOT). An open, unoccupied
space on the same lot with a building, extending the full width of the lot and
situated between the street line and side of the building projected to the
sidelines of the lot.
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (C)   Unlawful parking and storage on residential properties.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than 4 motor vehicles and 2 trailers per lawful dwelling
unit may be parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except
as otherwise permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential
characteristics of the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles
of occasional guests who do not reside on the property;
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be entirely on a paved (examples include cement, blacktop, paver
block) or graveled (not including sand) parking except during a citywide snow
emergency; and
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.25 INOPERABLE, ABANDONED OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      INOPERABLE, ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer as
defined in this chapter, which does not have lawfully affixed current state
registration or license plates or plates, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011 subd. 3,
or the condition of which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperative, abandoned, discarded or any debris from a motor vehicle or
trailer.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motorbikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts, and watercraft.
      TRAILER. An unpowered vehicle towed by a motor vehicle and shall include,
but not be limited to, campers, wheeled fish houses, watercraft trailers,
enclosed or open trailers.
      VEHICLE. Includes all motor vehicles and trailers.
   (B)   Storing or parking.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to park, store or leave any junked
vehicle, whether attended or not, upon any public or private property within
the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, as an owner of or an occupant having
control of private property within the city to permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any junked vehicle upon private property.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any landlord of any rental property to allow
junked vehicles on the property.
      (4)   A car cover or any cover is not allowed to store a junk vehicle.
      (5)   A racecar that is driven weekly may be stored in the backyard of a
residential property. It must be 10 feet off the side and rear property line.
It must have a car cover when it is not in use.
      (6)   A derby car can be at a property no longer than 3 months. It must
be 10 feet off the side and rear property line. It must have a car cover when
it is not in use.
      (7)   Any vehicles described in this section constitute a hazard to the
health and welfare of the residents of the community in that the vehicles can
harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and breeding place for vermin and
present physical danger to the safety and well-being of children and citizens;
and vehicles containing fluids which, if released into the environment, can and
do cause significant health risks to the community.
   (C)   Exception.
      (1)   Junk vehicle is within an enclosed building or structure lawfully
situated upon private property or is so parked, stored or left upon private
property lawfully zoned and operated as a junkyard.
      (2)   A race car that is driven weekly may be stored in the backyard of a
residential property. It must be 10 feet off the side and rear property line.
It must have a car cover on the race car when it is not in use.
      (3)   A motor vehicle that is going to be a derby car can be at a
property no longer than 3 months. The derby car must be parked in the back yard
with a car cover over it at all times. No more than 1 derby car per property.
      (4)   A car cover is not allowed to store a junk car.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.26 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers;
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any 1 side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings;
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place;
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly;
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly;
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof; and
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.27 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   For purposes of §§
92.27 and
92.28, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances.
   (B)   Any peace officer or designated person shall have the power to inspect
private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission
and maintenance of public nuisances.
   (C)   Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and
safety, no police officer or designated person shall enter private property for
the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of
competent jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 92.28 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Standard abatement.
      (1)   Except for the abatement of public nuisance vehicles governed by §
92.25 and except as otherwise provided under subdivisions (B), (C), and (D)
below, the following abatement procedure applies to all public nuisances.
Whenever the officer who is charged with enforcement determines that a public
nuisance is being maintained or exists on property, the officer must give
written notification to the property owner and occupant or other responsible
party of that fact and order that the nuisance be terminated and abated. Notice
must be served in person or by certified mail. Failure of the party to receive
the certified mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. Notice to the
owner will be satisfied by notice to the person listed as the taxpayer on the
county's tax records. If the property is not occupied, the owner is unknown, or
no other responsible party can be reasonably identified, notice may be served
by posting it on the property for a period of at least 72 hours.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to
abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated, not
to exceed 30 days. If the notice of violation is not complied within the time
specified, the official shall report that fact forthwith to the City
Administrator. Thereafter, the City Administrator will send an additional
notice of violation. The notice shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated, not to
exceed 30 days. If the notice of violation is not complied within the time
specified, the City Administrator shall report that fact forthwith to the City
Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to owner or occupant
had an opportunity to be heard, determine that the conditional identified in
the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is
not abated with the time prescribed by the City Council, the city may take any
and all action necessary to abate said nuisance immediately and may assess to
the landowner any and all costs incurred therein, including legal fees and
cost, and said assessment shall be a specific lien against any real estate
owned by said landowner.
   (B)   Notice. The notice must state:
      (1)   The property location of the public nuisance;
      (2)   The nature of the public nuisance, with reference to the
appropriate code provision;
      (3)   The steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and a reasonable amount
of time, within which the nuisance is to be abated;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant, or other responsible party does not
comply with the notice within the time specified, the city may provide for
abating the nuisance;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant, or other responsible party has the right
to appeal the designation as a public nuisance by submitting a request in
writing to the City Clerk before the date by which abatement must be completed
or within 7 calendar days after service of the notice, whichever comes first;
and
      (6)   That the city may assess its costs against the property in
accordance with this section. If no timely appeal is submitted and the nuisance
is not abated within the deadline given, the enforcement officer may proceed to
abate the nuisance. If a timely appeal is submitted, the matter must be
scheduled for a hearing before the City Council. A notice of the hearing must
state the date, time, and location of the City Council hearing, must be served
in the same manner as the abatement notice, and must be given at least 10 days
before the hearing. After holding the hearing, the City Council may issue an
order requiring abatement of the nuisance.
   (C)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   The police officer may provide for abating a public nuisance
without following the standard abatement procedure required in division (A)
above when:
         (a)   There is an immediate threat to the public health or safety;
         (b)   There is an immediate threat of serious property damage;
         (c)   A public nuisance has been caused by private parties on public
property; or
         (d)   There has been a violation of §
92.23
      (2)   If the enforcing officer abates the nuisance under this section,
the officer must reasonably attempt to notify the owner, occupant, or other
responsible party of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement
and any cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   (D)   Major abatement. When the enforcement officer determines that the cost
of abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the standard abatement procedure provided in division (A) is altered
in the following manner:
      (1)   The abatement notice must provide that if the party does not abate
the nuisance within the time specified, the matter will be referred to the City
Council for a hearing; and
      (2)   The abatement notice must specify the date, time, and location of
the City Council hearing.
   (E)   Cost recovery. The owner of property on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on property
not owned by that person, is personally liable to the city for the cost of the
abatement, including administrative costs. Unpaid charges constitute a lien
against the premises where the abatement occurred on and after the date they
were incurred. A property that is the subject of multiple nuisance abatements
within any continuous 60-month period may be charged additional administrative
fees as follows, except when the City Council determines that there are
mitigating circumstances to reduce or eliminate the fee: for the second
abatement $100.
(Ord. passed 9-7-2004; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.29 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs.
      (2)   As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined, the
City Administrator or other official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail
it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at
the office of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment.
      (1)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or safety
hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Administrator
shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list
the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate
lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable.
      (2)   The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS
§ 92.40 WEED ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Weeds as a nuisance.
      (1)   Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law or not, growing upon
any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any street or alley
in the city to a greater height than 8 inches or which have gone or are about
to go to seed are a nuisance.
      (2)   The owner and the occupant shall abate or prevent the nuisance on
the property and on land outside the traveled portion of the street or alley
abutting on the property.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   When the owner or occupant permits a weed nuisance to exist in
violation of division (A) above, the city official designated by the City
Council shall serve notice upon the owner of the property if he or she resides
in the municipality and can be found or upon the occupant in other cases, by
mail or by personal service, ordering the owner or occupant to have the weeds
cut and removed within 5 days after being sent by first class mail of the
notice. The notice will also stating that in case of noncompliance the work
will be done by the Public Works Department at the expense to the owner and
that if unpaid, the charge for the work will be made a special assessment
against the property concerned.
      (2)   When no owner, occupant or agent of the owner or occupant can be
found, the provision for notice shall not apply.
   (C)   Removal by city.
      (1)   If the owner or occupant fails to comply with the notice within 5
days after receipt, or if no owner, occupant or agent of the owner can be
found, the city shall cut and remove the grasses and weeds.
      (2)   A record showing the cost of the work attributable to each separate
lot and parcel shall be maintained by the Public Works Department and deliver
the information to the City Administrator annually.
(1985 Code, § 302.03) (Ord. passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.41 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.42 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the Police Department or
designated city official on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES, AND RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (alliums), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corn
cockle, Cress leaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed,
Hairy Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horse nettle, Johnson grass, Leafy
Spurge, Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle,
Poison Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian
Thistle, Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic,
Wild Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for 2 consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 8 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants; and
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.43 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 8 inches in height.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.44 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon becoming aware of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this chapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make
an inspection and prepare a written report.
      (2)   Said designee, upon concluding that there is a probable belief that
this chapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in the form
of a "Destruction Order" to the property owner of the property as that
information is contained within the records of the city.
      (3)   The notice shall be served in writing by U.S. Mail to the last
known address of the owner of the property. The notice shall provide that
within 5 days after being sent by first class mail that the designated
violation shall be removed by the property owner or person occupying the
property.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.45 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal to the city by filing written notice of
objections with the City Administrator within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays.
   (B)   It is the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this chapter and should not be subject to destruction
under this chapter.
   (C)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.46 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
"destruction order" within five days and has not filed a notice within 48 hours
to the City Administrator of an intent to appeal, the city will employ the
services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the weeds to
conform to this chapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
§ 92.47 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney's
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Administrator and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2013)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
93.01   Prohibition
   
93.02   Exceptions
   
93.03   Additional provisions
Fireworks
   
93.15   Purpose and intent
   
93.16   License provisions
   
93.17   Prohibitions
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.01 PROHIBITION.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, except as herein
otherwise provide, open burning shall be prohibited within the City of
Mapleton.
(Ord. 803.01, passed 2-15-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A CAMPFIRE is a fire set for cooking, warming, recreational or
ceremonial purposes, which is not more than 3 feet in diameter by 3 feet high
and the ground surrounding the fire has been cleared of all combustible
material for 5 feet from the base of the fire.
   (B)   Fire contained in charcoal grill, camp stoves or other devices
designed for the purpose of cooking or heating.
   (C)   Fires may not however be used for the burning of litter, refuse,
garbage, leaves or paper. Fires not housed in an outdoor fireplace or barbecue
appliance must be surrounded by non-combustible material.
   (D)   STARTER FUEL FOR FIRES means dry, untreated, unpainted wood or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution may be used to start the fire.
   (E)   WOOD means dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs,
charcoal cordwood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does not include wood
that is green, with leaves or needles, rotted, wet, oil soaked or treated with
paint, glue or preservatives.
   (F)   Fires purposely set for the instruction and training of firefighter
personnel.
   (G)   The burning by city staff of trees, brush, grass and other vegetative
matter in the maintenance of municipal property.
(Ord. 803.01, passed 2-15-2000)
§ 93.03 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A competent person shall constantly attend any fire permitted by this
chapter until the fire is extinguished. This person shall have a garden hose
connected to the water supply, or other extinguishing equipment readily
available for use.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning during a burning
ban put into effect by a local authority, county or state agency (M.S. § 88.171
subdivision 9, as it may be amended from time to time).
   (C)   Exemption to conduct fires under this section does not excuse a person
from the consequences, damages or injuries which may result there from nor does
it exempt any person from regulations promulgated the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency or any other governmental unit excising jurisdiction in matters
of pollution or fire hazard regulations.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 803.01, passed 2-15-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the inherent risks of fire and injury to persons and
property associated with the sale, possession and use of fireworks, the City
Council has determined that it is necessary and in the interest of public
health, safety and welfare to establish reasonable regulations concerning
fireworks.
   (B)   Adoption of state law. It is unlawful to sell, use or possess
fireworks in violation of M.S. §§ 624.20 through 624.25, as they may be amended
from time to time, inclusive, which are adopted by reference.
   (C)   Definition. For purposes of this section, CONSUMER FIREWORKS are
defined as wire or wood sparklers of not more than 100 grams of mixture per
item, other sparkling items which are non-explosive and non-aerial and contain
75 grams or less of chemical mixture per tube or a total of 200 grams or less
for multiple tubes, snakes and glow works, smoke devices or trick noisemakers
which include paper streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers and drop
pops, each consisting of not more than .025 grams of explosive mixture.
(Ord. 2600, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 93.16 LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Sale of fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, expose for sale or sell at retail or wholesale any consumer fireworks in
the City of Mapleton without a license.
   (B)   License application.
      (1)   The applicant shall completely fill out and submit an application
form for a consumer fireworks license.
      (2)   License fee shall be paid prior to Council approval. License fee
will be set annual by the City Council.
   (C)   Conditions of license. A license to sell consumer fireworks shall be
issued subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The license is non-transferable, either to a different person or
location;
      (2)   The premises are subject to inspection by city fire and police
officers during normal business hours;
      (3)   Consumer fireworks shall only be stored in or sold from buildings
or retail stands that comply with National Fire Protection Association Standard
1124 (2003 Edition);
      (4)   Storage of consumer fireworks on the premises must be in compliance
with the International Fire Code;
      (5)   Consumer fireworks shall not be sold to persons under the age of
18; and
      (6)   Applicant must meet zoning requirements of the district where
fireworks are being sold.
(Ord. 2600, passed 7-19-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks shall not be used on public property.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks shall not be used indoors.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2600, passed 7-19-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Running at large
   
95.03   Licenses
   
95.04   Nuisances
   
95.05   Waste
   
95.06   Quarantine of certain dogs
   
95.07   Impounding
   
95.08   Maximum number of animals permitted
Other Animals
   
95.20   General prohibition
   
95.21   Treatment
   
95.22   Animals at large
   
95.23   Diseased animals
   
95.24   Manner of keeping
   
95.25   Care of premises
   
95.26   Impounding
   
95.27   Violations
   
95.28   Dangerous dogs
   
95.29   Dangerous animal requirements
   
95.30   Chickens
DOGS AND CATS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as apart of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
nonpoisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians and
other similar animals.
      FARM ANIMALS.
         (a)   Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing work
in an agricultural setting.
         (b)   Unless otherwise defined, FARM ANIMALS shall include members of
the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows, bulls), sheep
poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese
pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals associated with a farm, ranch
or stable.
      NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family Felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family Canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner's property and not under the custody
and control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the feline species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator and the duties imposed upon the
City Administrator hereunder with respect to registration receipts and tags may
be carried out by the City Administrator through the City Administrator's duly
designated agents subject to the City Administrator’s supervision, direction
and control.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, associations or corporations owning,
keeping or harboring an animal. The HARBORER of an animal is any person who has
custody of any animal or permits the same to be kept or to stay on or about his
or her premises.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is on the premises of the dog's owner; within a private
motor vehicle or controlled by a leash. A dog on the property of another
without the consent of the property owner is at large and not under RESTRAINT.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors or
keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person who owns, harbors or keeps a dog
or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited.”
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall keep any dog over 6 months of age within the city
without securing a lifetime license therefore from the City Administrator, who
shall keep a record of all licenses issued and shall issue a tag for each
license.
      (2)   A license shall be secured from the City Administrator within 10
days of obtaining a dog over 6 months of age, or within 10 days of the date
when the dog becomes 6 months of age.
   (B)   Application for license. Applications for license shall be made on
forms prescribed by the City Administrator, which forms shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner; and
      (2)   The breed, age, and sex of the dog for which a license is sought.
   (C)   License fees; expiration. The lifetime license fee shall be set by
Council resolution annually. Every license shall expire upon death of the dog
or when the dog is no longer in applicant's possession. A lifetime license does
not transfer to a different animal. The lifetime license expires on December 31
each year if current proof of rabies shots is not provided to the city.
   (D)   Rabies vaccination. Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
to be licensed has a current certificate of rabies vaccination.
   (E)   Affixing tag.
      (1)   The owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar or
harness to which the license tag must be permanently affixed in a manner so
that the tag may be easily seen, or have the license number tattooed inside the
ear of the dog.
      (2)   The owner shall see that the dog constantly wears the tag.
      (3)   Tags shall not be transferable and no refunds shall be made on any
dog license fee because of leaving the city or death of the dog.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
Statutory references:
   Licenses, see M.S. § 347.09, as it may be amended from time to time
   Wearing invalid tag unlawful, see M.S. § 347.18, as it may be amended from
time to time
§ 95.04 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Dogs.
      (1)   The owner or custodian of any dog shall prevent the dog from
committing in the city any act that constitutes a nuisance.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor a dog which
habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined as barking for
repeated intervals of at least 5 minutes with less than one minute of
interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises. The Animal Control Officer or Police Officer shall not
enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless
the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has
obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for
in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
      (3)   Upon receipt of at least 2 written complaints from citizens, or 2
reports made by any Police Officer, relating to any of the prohibited activity,
within a 3-month period a dog shall be presumed to habitually or frequently
engage in prohibited activity.
   (B)   Cats. It shall be the obligation and responsibility of the owner or
possessor of any cat to prevent that animal from molesting, defiling, or
destroying any property, or to howl, screech, or make other noise so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 WASTE.
   (A)    It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
controlling any dog or cat to permit or allow that dog or cat to discharge or
deposit on any property in which the person has no proprietary interest, any
feces or other waste matter.
   (B)   In the event any dog or cat does discharge or deposit that matter in a
like location, and the owner, keeper, or person in control of the dog or cat is
present, that person shall immediately remove and lawfully dispose of the
matter.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 QUARANTINE OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)    Any dog that bites a person shall be quarantined for a time as may be
directed by the Police Department. See §§
95.28 and
95.29 for specific regulations.
   (B)   During quarantine the animal shall be securely confined and kept from
contact with any other animal.
   (C)   At the discretion of the Police Department the quarantine may be on
the premises of the owner; however, if the Police Department requires other
confinement, the owner shall surrender the animal for the quarantine period to
an animal shelter or shall, at his or her own expense, place it in a veterinary
clinic.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
§ 95.07 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Police to impound.
      (1)   Any dog found unlicensed or any dog or cat running at large
contrary to the provisions of this chapter might be impounded by an Animal
Control Officer or any Police Officer, who shall give notice of the impounding
to the owner of the dog or cat, if known.
      (2)   If the owner is unknown, the Officer shall post notice in 3
conspicuous places in the city stating that if the dog or cat is not claimed
within 5 days of the posting of the dog notice it will be disposed of and the
owner shall bear the cost of the disposal. Cats may be caught by use of a live
trap.
   (B)   Redemption. The owner may redeem any dog or cat from the veterinary
clinic selected by City Council within the time stated in the notice by the
payment of the following fees:
      (1)   An impounding fee in the amount set by the designated veterinary
clinic; and
      (2)   A license fee, if unpaid.
   (C)   Disposition of unclaimed dogs and cats.
      (1)   Any dog or cat which is not redeemed within the time specified in
division (B) above may be sold for not less than the amount provided in that
division to anyone desiring to purchase the dog or cat, if it is not requested
by a licensed educational or scientific institution under M.S. § 35.71, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   All sums received in excess of the fees fixed by division (B) above
shall be paid to the owner if he or she makes a claim within 1 year of the sale
and furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership.
   (D)   Animal Control Officer. The Animal Control Officer shall be appointed
by the Council. He or she shall perform other duties imposed on him or her by
this chapter.
   (E)   Violation. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory references:
   Impounding, see M.S. § 347.14, as it may be amended from time to time
   Prohibitions; limitations; regulations, see M.S. § 347.14, as it may be
amended from time to time
§ 95.08 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ANIMALS PERMITTED.
   (A)   No person may own, keep, harbor, or maintain at 1 household more than
3 dogs over 6 months of age.
   (B)   No person may own, keep, harbor, or maintain at 1 household more than
5 cats over 6 months of age.
   (C)   No person may own, keep, harbor, or maintain at 1 household any
combination of dogs and cats over 5 months of age exceeding a total of 5, no
more than 3 of which may be dogs.
   (D)   Any person owning or harboring a dog or cat for 3 consecutive days
shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed the owner thereof.
   (E)   It is the express intent of the City Council that the purpose of this
section is to clarify the limitation on the number of animals permitted.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
Penalty, see §
10.99
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 95.20 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
    No person shall keep any farm animals or non-domestic animals in the city,
or permit a like animal to be kept on premises owned, occupied, or controlled
by him or her.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to any existing commercial hog or
cattle purchasing operations within the limits of the city.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.21 TREATMENT.
    As per M.S. § 346.39 subdivisions 1 through 12, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
§ 95.22 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)    No person shall permit any farm animal, rabbit, chicken, geese, duck,
or turkey of which he or she is the owner, caretaker, or custodian, to be at
large within the city.
   (B)   Any like animal is deemed to be at large when it is off the premises
owned or rented by the owner or his or her agent, and not under his or her
individual restraint.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.23 DISEASED ANIMALS.
    Any animal with a contagious disease shall be so confined that it cannot
come within 50 feet of any public roadway or any place where animals belonging
to or harbored by another person are kept.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
§ 95.24 MANNER OF KEEPING.
    No person shall keep any dog, cat, or other animal in the city in an
unsanitary place or condition; in a manner resulting in objectionable odors; in
a way so as to constitute a nuisance or disturbance by reason of barking,
howling, fighting or other noise; or in a way so as to permit the animal to
annoy, injure, or endanger any person or property.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.25 CARE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Clean shelters.
      (1)   Every structure and yard in which animals or fowl are kept shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and free of all rodents, vermin,
and objectionable odors.
      (2)   The interior walls, ceilings, floors, partitions, and appurtenances
of any like structure shall be whitewashed or painted, as the Police Department
shall direct.
      (3)   Upon the complaint of any individual or otherwise, the Police
Department shall inspect the structure or yard and issue any order as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Manure. Manure shall be removed with sufficient frequency to avoid
nuisance from odors or from the breeding of flies, at least once per month from
October 1 to May 1 each year, and once every 2 weeks at other times.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.26 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Who impounds. The Animal Control Officer or any Police Officer may
take up and impound in the designated veterinary clinic any animal or fowl
found running at large or in violation of this chapter, and shall provide
proper sustenance for every animal impounded.
   (B)   Notice. Within 24 hours after any animal has been impounded, the
Animal Control Officer shall post notices in 3 conspicuous places in the city,
describing the animal and stating that it has been impounded. He or she shall
also make a reasonable attempt to give oral or written notice to the owner when
known.
   (C)   Release. No animal impounded shall be released without showing payment
of the impounding fee or the sale price.
   (D)   Fees. The fee for impounding shall be set by the designated veterinary
clinic.
   (E)   Sale. If any impounded animal is not redeemed within 6 days, the
animal shall be sold.
   (F)   Illegal release. No unauthorized person shall break into the
designated veterinary clinic or release any animal legally placed therein.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.27 VIOLATIONS.
    Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 11-4-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Pound master; custody; sale; time; notice, see M.S. § 346.13, as it may
amended from time to time
§ 95.28 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Attack by a dog. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog to inflict
or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal, whether or
not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack by a dog
under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an attack upon an
uninvited intruder who has entered the owner's home with criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous dogs. The Animal Control Authority shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner's property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen
or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping and to provide
protection for the dog from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not include a
porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that would
allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in which
windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only barriers which
prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow the egress of the
dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of 5 feet and be
constructed of 11 gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
2 inches, support posts shall be 1 1/4-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than 2 inches; and
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than 2 inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous dog. The Animal Control Officer
shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence that the potentially dangerous dog has, when unprovoked, bitten,
attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic animal as defined
in division (C). When an animal is declared potentially dangerous, the Animal
Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially dangerous animal to be
notified in writing that the dog is potentially dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      (2)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      (3)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning, or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: the Animal Control
Officer shall cause the owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person, that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places, and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than 3 weeks after demand
for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk's office shall
be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer without further
foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the temperament of the
animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems proper. The City
Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the animal into custody
for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody. If the animal is
ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall immediately make the
animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not
immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain
an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any Police Officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the Officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.29 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as defined in §
95.28(C);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51, as may be
amended from time to time; the sign must be approved by the Minnesota
Department of Public Safety. These signs will be available to purchase from the
city;
      (3)   Written proof of a surety bond issued by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in this state in a form acceptable to the animal
control authority in the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any person
injured by the dangerous dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an
insurance company authorized to conduct business in this state in the amount of
at least $300,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries inflicted by
the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or insurance policy shall provide that no
cancellation of the bond or policy will be made unless the city is notified in
writing by the surety company or the insurance company at least 10 days prior
to such cancellation;
      (4)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If the
owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog and
sterilize it at the owner's expense;
      (5)   If the dog is outside the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled
and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed 6 feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
      (6)   The dog must have an easily identifiable, standardized tag
identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all times as
specified in M.S. § 347.51, as it may be amended from time to time. The tag
must be approved by the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. This tag will be
available to purchase from the city;
      (7)   The owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog must have a
microchip implanted in the dog for identification, and the name of the
microchip manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must be
provided to the Animal Control Officer. If the owner does not have the
microchip implanted in the dog, the Animal Control Officer may have the
microchip implanted. In either case, all costs related to the purchase and
implantation of the microchip must be borne by the dog's owners;
      (8)   The dog must be licensed and up to date on rabies vaccination
according to § 
95.03; and/or
      (9)   The dog must be also have an annual dangerous dog license that will
require the Animal Control Officer to verify all requirements in this section
are being met.
   (B)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (B), may
be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding
fees and presenting proof to animal control that each of the requirements under
this section, are fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within
14 days may be disposed of as provided under §
95.28(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
95.28 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
95.28(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
95.28(F). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under division (C), and the owner is liable to the
animal control for the costs incurred in confining, impounding, and disposing
of the animal.
(Ord. passed 11-4-2015)
§ 95.30 CHICKENS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided, due to the bird's inability to generate enough body heat.
      CHICKEN. A domesticated bird that serves as a source of eggs or meat.
      COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by
this section.
   (B)   Purpose. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own food
is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding past time. Therefore, it
is the purpose and intent of this section to permit the keeping and maintenance
of chicken hens for eggs and meat sources in a clean and sanitary manner that
is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the community.
   (C)   Permit required. No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of
any live chickens without first obtaining a permit in writing from the city,
and subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All permits will expire on December 31 of the second year following
their issuance unless sooner revoked.
      (2)   A permit is subject to all terms and conditions of this section and
any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   The city may revoke a permit for failure to comply with the
provisions of this section or any of the permit's conditions. Prior to revoking
a permit, the city shall provide the owner with notice of the revocation and an
opportunity to appeal the revocation to the City Council.
      (4)   The city may inspect the premises for which a permit has been
granted in order to ensure compliance with this section. If the city is not
able to obtain the occupant's consent to enter the property, it may seek an
administrative search warrant.
      (5)   No person shall allow any fowl under his or her ownership or
control to disturb the peace and quiet of the city or to otherwise become a
public or private nuisance so as to annoy, injure or endanger the health,
safety, comfort or repose of the public.
      (6)   Persons that intend to no longer keep fowl on their premises shall
notify the city clerk. If there is a pen, it must be removed upon expiration of
the permit or within 30 days of ceasing to use the pen for the keeping of fowl,
whichever is earlier.
      (7)   The city shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
   (D)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   The keeping of any poultry besides chickens is prohibited.
      (2)   Roosters are prohibited.
      (3)   No more than 5 chickens shall be housed or kept on any one
residential lot in any area of the city.
      (4)   Chickens shall only be allowed on single family home lots.
      (5)   Outdoor slaughtering of chickens in city limits is prohibited.
      (6)   Chicken fighting shall not be allowed within city limits.
      (7)   Leg banding of all chickens is required. The bands must identify
the owner's name, address, and telephone number.
      (8)   Chickens shall not be housed in a residential house or an attached
or detached garage.
      (9)   A separate coop is required to house the chickens. Coops must be
constructed and maintained to meet the following minimum standards:
         (a)   Located in the side or rear yard.
         (b)   Meet the accessory structure setback requirements.
         (c)   Construction shall be adequate to prevent access by rodents.
         (d)   A run or exercise yard is required to be provided and must be
enclosed by a fence.
         (e)   The coop must be located in the side or backyard and set back at
least 25 feet from any structure on any adjacent lot and at least 10 feet from
the property line.
      (10)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be
kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The
coop and its surroundings must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor.
Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary
condition or causes odors detectible on another property.
      (11)   All food shall be stored in an enclosed, rodent proof container.
      (12)   Dead chickens shall be disposed of according to the Minnesota
Board of Animal Health rules, which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of
as soon as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of
chicken carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or
rendering, or offsite composting.
      (13)   No permit will be approved if property owner has any city code
violations or outstanding invoices due to the city.
(Ord. 95.27, passed 11-19-2019)
CHAPTER 96: CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
Section
   
96.01   General provisions
   
96.02   Disclaimer of liability
   
96.03   Fees
   
96.04   Definitions
   
96.05   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
96.06   Law enforcement action
   
96.07   Seizure of property
   
96.08   Action by City Administrator
   
96.09   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
96.10   Costs; site owner’s responsibility
   
96.11   City action and recovery of costs
   
96.12   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
96.13   Site owners; address
   
96.14   Unauthorized removal of postings
   
96.15   Entry into or onto site
   
96.16   Removal of personal property from the site
   
96.98   Violations
§ 96.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce public exposure to health
risks where law enforcement officers have determined that hazardous chemicals
or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or associated dumpsite
may exist.
      (2)   Professional reports, based on assessments, testing and
investigations, show that chemicals used in the production of illicit drugs can
condense, penetrate and contaminate surfaces, furnishings and equipment of
surrounding structures.
      (3)   The City Council finds that the sites, and the personal property
within those sites, may contain suspected chemicals and residues that place
people, particularly children or adults of child bearing age, at risk when
exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site or using or being exposed to
contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application.
      (1)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, the
provisions herein shall be construed to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
      (2)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive to the public than comparable provisions
imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements on the public shall prevail.
      (3)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or
division of this chapter to be invalid, that decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
provision declared invalid.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.02 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the City of Mapleton
or any employee or agent thereof for any damages that may result from reliance
on this chapter shall be eliminated or limited as provided by M.S. § 466.02, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.03 FEES.
   Fees for the administration of this chapter may be established and amended
periodically by resolution of the city of Mapleton City Council.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
   CITY. The City of Mapleton.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation exist. A clandestine drug lab site may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer
or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V of M.S. § 152.02, as they may be amended from time to
time. The term shall not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages,
intoxicating liquors or tobacco.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab
operation.
   MANUFACTURE. In places other than a pharmacy, shall mean and include the
production, cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical,
physical, chemical or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking,
tableting, encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm(s), corporation(s) or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dump site.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.05 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.06 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site, the site, and all personal
property therein, shall be declared a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Law enforcement authorities who identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site which may place neighbors, the
visiting public, or present and future occupants of the site at risk for
exposure to harmful contaminants and other associated conditions are mandated
to take the following action:
      (1)   Promptly notify the City Council, public health authorities and the
appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement Administration of the
U.S. Justice Department of the location of the site, and the owner if known, of
the conditions found;
      (2)   Treat, store, transport or dispose of all household hazardous waste
found at the site in a manner consistent with Minnesota Department of Health,
Minnesota Pollution Control, and Blue Earth County Health Department rules and
regulations;
      (3)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary declaration of public health
nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the City Administrator
determines the appropriateness of issuing a permanent declaration of public
health nuisance;
      (4)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration
of public health nuisance has been issued;
      (5)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site, and not return without written
authorization from the City Administrator;
      (6)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property
at the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      (7)   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people
from entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the site
have vacated.
   (C)   The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.07 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported except to a more secure location. In such circumstances, all other
requirements of this chapter shall be followed as closely as possible given the
specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.08 ACTION BY CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
      (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Within 48 hours of notification that law
enforcement authorities have determined the existence of a clandestine drug lab
site or chemical dump site, the City Administrator shall determine the
appropriate scope of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance. Based
on the results of the determination, the City Administrator may then promptly
issue a permanent declaration of public health nuisance and a do not enter -
unsafe to occupy order for the affected site to replace the temporary
declaration issued and posted by law enforcement. A copy of the permanent
declaration and order shall be posted on all doorway entrances to the site or,
in the case of bare land, shall be posted in several conspicuous places on the
property.
   (B)   Abatement order. After the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance has been issued and posted, the City Administrator shall send written
notice to the site owner ordering abatement of the public health nuisance. The
abatement order shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the public health nuisance and a do not enter -unsafe to
occupy order;
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
      (3)   A summary of the site owner's and occupant's responsibilities under
this chapter; and information that may help the owner locate appropriate
services necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The City Administrator shall also mail a
copy of the permanent declaration of public health nuisance, a copy of this
chapter, and a notification of the suspension of the site's rental license, if
applicable, to the following concerned parties at their last known address:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site if the identities of such
persons are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The Mapleton City Council;
      (4)   The City of Mapleton Police Department;
        (5)   Minnesota River Valley Drug Task Force;
      (6)   The appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement
Administration of the U.S. Justice Department; and
      (7)   Other city, state and local authorities, such as the City Water
Department, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Minnesota Department of
Health, and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public
and protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The City Administrator is
authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance after
the City Administrator receives documentation from a city approved
environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm stating that the suspected
health and safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling
occupants, either do not exist or have been sufficiently abated or corrected to
justify amendment or removal of the declaration.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.09 SITE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within 10 business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the City Administrator with written notification:
         (a)   That the owner has confirmed that all persons and their pets
have vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   That the site will remain vacated and secured until the public
health nuisance is completely abated as required by this chapter;
      (2)   Contract with 1 or more city-approved environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the most
current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean up of the site (including but not limited to
the clean up or removal of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures and
contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean up of the
demolished site;
         (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of
all personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including but not
limited to testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to Minnesota Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use of
the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to the
site.
      (3)   Provide the City Administrator with the identity of the testing and
cleaning firm with which the owner has contracted for abatement of the public
health nuisance as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the City Administrator establishing a clean
up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable deadlines for completing
all actions required by this chapter for abatement of the public health
nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the City Administrator shall
consider practical limitations and the availability of contractors in approving
the schedule for clean up.
   (B)   The site owner must meet all deadlines established on the clean up
schedule. Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean up schedule,
the site owner is required to provide the City Administrator with written
documentation of the clean up process, including a signed statement from a
city-approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the site, all
personal property therein and all property and soil in proximity to the site,
is safe for human occupancy and use and that the clean up was conducted in
accordance with the most current Minnesota Department of Health guidelines.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.10 COSTS; SITE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The site owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those of
the city, of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor's fees and the city's costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean up.
   (B)   The city's costs may also include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Clean up services;
      (7)   Administrative fees;
      (8)   Legal fees; and
      (9)   Other associated costs.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.11 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   If the building's owner fails to comply with any of the requirements
of this chapter, the City Administrator is authorized to take all reasonable
actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance including, but not
limited to, contracting with a city approved environmental hazard testing and
cleaning firm to conduct the work outlined in §
96.03(B) above.
   (B)   The City Administrator is also authorized to provide a copy of the
declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage holders of
the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the site have
access to information about the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property
at the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein.
      (2)   These actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 463, as it may be amended from time to time together with any
amendments or modifications thereto.
   (D)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of the costs for administrative and legal
expense.
   (E)   The city may recover costs by civil action against the owner of the
site or by assessing the costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 463, as it may be amended from time to time, together with any amendments
or modifications thereto.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.12 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this chapter are intended to limit the site owner's,
residents' or the city's right to recover costs incurred under this chapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab, and/or from other lawful sources.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.13 SITE OWNERS; ADDRESS.
   (A)   When the site is real property and the owner or the address of the
owner of the site is unknown, the owner and the owner's address is deemed to be
that of the property's taxpayer's name and address as that information is
maintained by the County Auditor's office.
   (B)   When the site is a vehicle, boat or trailer and the owner or the
address of the owner of the site is unknown, the owner and the owner's address
is deemed to be that of the person on file as the owner on the current or most
recent title to the vehicle, boat or trailer.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004)
§ 96.14 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized city personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent “Declaration of Public Health Nuisance” and/or “Do Not
Enter; Unsafe to Occupy” order from a chemical dump site or a clandestine drug
lab site.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.15 ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be
inside the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the
City Administrator or as otherwise authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   To confirm compliance with this chapter and to execute their duties
under this chapter, law enforcement officers, the City Administrator, and any
persons designated by the City Administrator, may enter onto the site property
or enter into the site at any time while a declaration of public health
nuisance is in effect for the site.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.16 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the Mapleton City
Administrator.
   (B)   Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the
reasonable discretion of the City Administrator, and only in cases of hardship
after:
      (1)   A city-approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
      (2)   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing:
         (a)   That the owner is aware of the danger of using the contaminated
property;
         (b)   That the owner will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
         (c)   That the owner releases and agrees to indemnify the city, its
staff, and the Mapleton City Council from all liability to the owner and/or
third persons for injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused,
by the contaminated property.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition, the city shall be entitled to seek any other remedy
available at law or in equity in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the community, including temporary and permanent injunctions.
(Ord. 2600, passed 5-18-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: HOME AND BUSINESS ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Alarm user registration
   
97.03   False alarms
   
97.04   Determination of false alarm
   
97.05   Violations
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices, a single device such as
a solid state unit which plugs directly into a 110-volt AC line or a group of
like devices at a single location arranged to signal the presence of a hazard
requiring urgent attention and to which police, fire or health personnel are
expected to respond.
   CALENDAR YEAR. The period January 1 through December 31 of each year.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or electrical
failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the owner or
lessee of an alarm system or his or her employees or agents.
      (2)   FALSE ALARMS do not include conditions which are beyond the control
of the alarm user such as utility line mishaps, tornadoes/wind storms,
thunderstorms or earthquakes.
(Ord. 1800, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 97.02 ALARM USER REGISTRATION.
   All alarm businesses shall be licensed with the State Board of Electricity.
(Ord. 1800, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 97.03 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   The Mapleton Police Department shall file a written report of each
false alarm incident with the City Administrator. A notice of each false alarm
will be sent to the alarm user by the Police Department after each occurrence.
   (B)   The Police Department shall notify the alarm user of a fee if the
alarm calls out a Mapleton Police Officer who is not on duty.
   (C)   Notice will be sent to alarm holder for each false alarm but there
will be no fee if the city has an officer on duty during the false alarm.
   (D)   Upon receipt of 5 false alarm reports or more at 1 address in 1
calendar year, Mapleton Police Department will meet with the alarm user to
discuss the problem and try and remedy the situation.
   (E)   If after meeting with alarm user they will be allowed 1 additional
notice.
   (F)   After that point a fee will be charged for each additional false alarm
call regardless if an officer is on duty or not.
   (G)   The fee amount shall be determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (H)   If the fee is not collected within 90 days after notification, the fee
shall be certified to the property taxes for the upcoming year.
(Ord. 1800, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 97.04 DETERMINATION OF FALSE ALARM.
   (A)   The alarm user may submit a written response within 30 days of receipt
of notice to the City Administrator to explain the cause of the alarm
activation.
   (B)   If the City Administrator determines the alarm was caused by
conditions beyond the control of the alarm user, the alarm will not be counted
as a false alarm at that address.
   (C)   The decision of the City Administrator may be appealed in writing to
the City Council.
(Ord. 1800, passed 7-11-2006)
§ 97.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who willfully violates this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as defined by state
law.
(Ord. 1800, passed 7-11-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSES AND PERMITS
   
111.   TOBACCO
   
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
   
113.   POOL TABLES AND OTHER RECREATION
   
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
115.   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   Licences and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Duties of licensee
   
110.07   Suspension or revocation
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Act prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for the activity or use.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Every application for a license shall be made to the City
Administrator on a form provided by him or her. It shall be accompanied by
payment to the City Administrator of the prescribed fee.
      (2)   If, after investigation, the City Administrator is satisfied that
all requirements of law and this code have been met, he or she shall present
the application to the City Council for action or, if the license or permit
does not require City Council approval, he or she shall issue the license or
permit.
   (D)   Insurance.
      (1)   (a)   When a licensee or permittee is required to have in force a
policy of insurance, the policy shall be approved as to substance and form by
the insurance consultant for the city.
         (b)   The policy shall provide that it is non-cancellable without 15-
days' notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the license
or permit.
         (c)   Satisfactory evidence of coverage by insurance shall be filed
with the City Administrator before the license or permit is issued.
         (d)   Each license or permit shall terminate upon termination of the
required insurance coverage.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, a required policy of liability insurance
shall provide for protection in at least the following amounts:
         (a)   For injuries including death therefrom sustained by any 1
person, $50,000;
         (b)   For injuries including death resulting therefrom sustained by 2
or more persons as the result of any 1 occurrence, $100,000; and
         (c)   For property damage, $10,000.
(1985 Code, § 501.01)
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fees established. License fees are in the amounts established in the
governing sections of this chapter or as otherwise provided in this code.
   (B)   Prorated fees. License fees shall not be prorated unless otherwise
specified by this code or by law.
   (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified by this code or by law.
(1985 Code, § 501.02)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(1985 Code, § 501.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   (A)   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other
person.
   (B)   Where a license relates to specific premises, the license shall not be
changed to another location without approval of the City Council or other
licensing authority.
(1985 Code, § 501.04)
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authorized personnel.
      (1)   Any city official or employee having a duty to perform with
reference to a license under this code and any police officer may inspect and
examine any licensee, his or her business, or premises to enforce compliance
with applicable provisions of this code.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, he or she may, at
any reasonable time enter any licensed premises or premises for which a license
is required in order to enforce compliance with this code.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of his or
her premises, the city official or employee charged with the duty of enforcing
the provisions of this code shall procure a valid search warrant before
conducting the inspection.
(1985 Code, § 501.05)
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Inspection. He or she shall permit at reasonable times inspections of
his or her business and examination of his or her books and records by
authorized officers or employees.
   (C)   Compliance with law. He or she shall comply with laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity or property.
   (D)   Display of license. He or she shall display the license or other
insignia given him or her as evidence of the license in a conspicuous place on
the premises, vehicle or device to which the license relates. If the license is
not so related, the license shall be carried on the licensee's person whenever
he or she is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (E)   Unlawful disposition. The licensee shall not lend or give to any other
person his or her license or license insignia.
(1985 Code, § 501.06)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke
any license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property.
   (B)   Except where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice
and hearing and except where suspension may be made without a hearing, the
holder of the license or permit shall be granted a hearing upon at least 10-
days’ notice before revocation or suspension is ordered.
   (C)   The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the
nature of the charges against the licensee.
(1985 Code, § 501.07)
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO
Section
   
111.01   County provisions; responsibility
§ 111.01 COUNTY PROVISIONS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The City Council of the City of Mapleton resolves that they delegate the
responsibility of enforcing tobacco license enforcement to Blue Earth County
for sales within the City of Mapleton.
(Res. 40-6-98, passed 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
112.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
112.04   License ineligibility
   
112.05   License suspension and revocation
   
112.06   License transferability
   
112.07   Registration
   
112.08   Prohibited activities
   
112.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting.
      (2)   The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association.
      (2)   As applied to groups, organizations, corporations, partnerships and
associations, the term shall include each member, officer, partner, associate,
agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY.
      (1)   Any day during which the City Hall is normally open for the purpose
of conducting public business.
      (2)   Holidays defined by state law shall not be counted as REGULAR
BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
      (2)   The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from
the scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is
to obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean
the same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more than 14
consecutive days.
§ 112.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler.
      (2)   The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   (1)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known
as garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as
shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any
officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
      (2)   Exemption from the definitions for the scope of this chapter shall
not excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
112.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 112.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
112.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Administrator. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by Council from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of the
license fee, the City Administrator, within 2 regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete.
      (2)   An application is determined to be complete only if all required
information is provided.
      (3)   If the City Administrator determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Administrator must inform the applicant of the required
necessary information that is missing.
      (4)   If the application is complete, the City Administrator must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application.
      (5)   Within 10 regular business days of receiving a complete application
the City Administrator must issue the license unless there exist grounds for
denying the license under §
112.04, in which case the City Administrator must deny the license.
      (6)   If the City Administrator denies the license, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the
applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council.
      (7)   The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date
of the request.
      (8)   The decision of the City Council following the public hearing can
be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   (1)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner.
      (2)   Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   (1)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation.
      (2)   Evidence of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be
limited to, the existence of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with
the Better Business Bureau, the Attorney General's Office or other similar
business or consumer rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months,
or 3 complaints filed against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 112.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
112.04; and/or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation.
      (2)   Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the permanent
residential address listed on the license application, or if no residential
address is listed, to the business address provided on the license application.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of this section,
the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no request
for a hearing is received by the City Administrator within 10 regular business
days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the
suspension or revocation.
      (2)   For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
      (3)   If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a
hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within
3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
112.03, shall be required to register with the city.
   (B)   Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to
register.
   (C)   The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
   (D)   Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required.
   (E)   Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Administrator shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as
proof of the registration.
   (F)   Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so
by the property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the
purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
when the property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: POOL TABLES AND OTHER RECREATION
Section
   
113.01   Bowling; billiards and pool
   
113.02   Circuses, carnivals, shows and other entertainment
   
113.03   Amusement devices
   
113.04   Deposit required
   
113.05   License fee for public entertainment or exhibition
§ 113.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS AND POOL.
   Each proprietor of a billiard or pool table or of a bowling alley, or a
combination of both, shall pay an annual license fee in an amount established
in by Council from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, SHOWS AND OTHER ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Each person, desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus,
carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game or other
entertainment, for which there is a charge for admission, shall first obtain a
license and pay the license fee or fees as established by the Council from time
to time.
      (2)   Local school entertainment, charitable organizations, lecture
courses, and lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are not
subject to the provisions of this section; provided, that the entertainment is
not for profit.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license
shall give at least 1-week's notice in writing to the City Clerk or other
authorized official, stating the dates of the performances and the location at
which the performances are to be presented. The City Clerk shall give his or
her consent to the issuance of the license if he or she deems that the location
is suitable for the purpose; that it will properly accommodate the patrons;
that the nature of the performance or exhibition does not pose a threat to the
health, safety or general welfare of the public; and that the use of the
location will not create too great a burden upon the Police Department or the
Fire Department.
   (C)   No circus, carnival, theatrical exhibition, public show, athletic game
or other entertainment shall be given for more than 2 consecutive days, except
in cases where the City Council by resolution allows a longer period, or where
the exhibition is to be conducted on municipal property and the use thereof for
a longer period shall have been approved by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   The term COIN-OPERATED MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE means any machine,
which upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc, may be operated
by the public generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether
or not registering a score. It includes such devices as marble machines,
pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines, mechanical rides
intended for use by children, such as merry-go-rounds, horses, ferris wheels,
and the like; carnival, fair, and/or festival rides, and all similar games,
operations or transactions under whatever name they may be indicated.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation or association must not display for public
use any coin-operated mechanical amusement device without obtaining a license
for it and paying the fee established by the Council. Applications for a
license must be made to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The license or licenses obtained must be posted permanently and
conspicuously at the location of the machine in the premises where the machine
is to be operated.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk or
other designated municipal official a cash bond in an amount to be determined
by the City Council, conditioned upon the restoration and cleaning up of the
grounds in a manner satisfactory to the Mayor. In the event the grounds are
restored and cleaned up properly following the exhibition, the deposit shall be
returned; otherwise the same shall be forfeited to the city to the extent of
actual costs to the city for restoration and cleaning up of the grounds.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up the grounds upon which
the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken place.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 LICENSE FOR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT OR EXHIBITION.
   The fee for the license shall be in an amount as established by the Council.
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
114.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
114.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
114.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
114.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
114.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
114.23   License fees; pro rata
   
122.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
114.25   Application for license
   
114.26   Description of premises
   
114.27   Applications for renewal
   
114.28   Transfer of license
   
114.29   Investigation
   
114.30   Hearing and issuance
   
114.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
114.32   Conditions of license
   
114.33   Hours and days of sale
   
114.34   Minors on premises
   
114.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
114.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
114.50   Application of this subchapter
   
114.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
114.52   Location
   
114.53   Operation
   
114.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
114.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
114.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this Chapter is adopted.
§ 114.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM
ESTABLISHMENT or LARGE ESTABLISHMENT as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as
it may be amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged
food that receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza
that is heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for
purposes of this chapter unless it meets the definitions of small
establishment, medium establishment or large establishment.
§ 114.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
114.99(B).
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor, on any
public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public place other
than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this chapter, in a
municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where the consumption
and display of liquor is lawfully permitted. Consumption is allowed in a
municipal parking lot when the lot is fenced in.
Penalty, see §
114.99
LICENSING
§ 114.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 114.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 114.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
114.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
114.55.
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
114.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
114.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which has been approved
by voters. Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a
restaurant as defined in §
114.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
114.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years. No license shall be for
longer than 4 consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12-days’
worth of temporary licenses to any 1 organization in 1 calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at 1 time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
114.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
114.23 shall not exceed 1/2 of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
114.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 114.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 122.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 114.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 114.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 114.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 114.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 114.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
114.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1-day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within 10 days. Any
suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this chapter
have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
114.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
114.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 114.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
114.50 through
114.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 114.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
114.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.52 LOCATION.
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 114.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Assistant Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the
immediate charge of a Liquor Store Manager, the City Administrator, selected by
the Council and paid compensation as is fixed by the Council. The Assistant
Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited by law or any provision
of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating liquor license. The
Assistant Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city, conditioned upon the
faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum as specified by the
Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the Assistant Manager, in
the discretion of the Council. The Assistant Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Assistant Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the
store in full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the
sale of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Assistant Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council.
No person under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may
require the employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful
discharge of their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on
the bond may be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Assistant Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating
in the fund may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other
appropriate fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended
for any municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
114.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than 1/2 hour after the time when the sale of
intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 114.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
§ 114.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year
period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 115: TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL PRODUCTS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose, findings and intent
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   State law adopted
   
115.04   License
   
115.05   Conditions
   
115.06   Fees
   
115.07   Ineligibility and basis for denial of license
   
115.08   Prohibited acts
   
115.09   Additional requirements
   
115.10   Responsibility
   
115.11   Compliance checks and inspections
   
115.12   Violations and penalty
   
115.13   Exceptions and defenses
§ 115.01 PURPOSE, FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate the sale of legalized adult-use
of any product that contains tetrahydrocannabinol and that meets the
requirements to be sold for human or animal consumption under M.S. § 151.72 for
the following reasons:
   (A)   The city recognizes that, based on the most reliable and up-to-date
scientific evidence, the rapid introduction of newly legalized adult-use THC
products, presents a significant potential threat to the public health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the city, and particularly to youth.
   (B)   The city has the opportunity to be proactive and make decisions that
will mitigate this threat and reduce exposure of young people to the products
or to the marketing of these products and improve compliance among THC product
retailers with laws prohibiting the sale or marketing of THC products to
minors.
   (C)   A local regulatory system for THC product retailers is appropriate to
ensure that retailers comply with THC product laws and business standards of
the city to protect the health, safety, and welfare of our youth and most
vulnerable residents.
   (D)   State law requires THC product retailers to check the identification
of purchasers to verify that they are at least 21 years of age (M.S. § 151.72,
subd. 3(c)), comply with certain packaging and labeling requirements to protect
children and youth (M.S. § 151.72, subd. 5) and meet certain potency and
serving size requirements (M.S. § 151.72, subd. 5(a)).
   (E)   State law authorizes the Board of Pharmacy to adopt product and
testing standards in part to curb the illegal sale and distribution of THC
products and ensure the safety and compliance of commercially available THC
products in the State of Minnesota.
   (F)   State law does not preempt the authority of a local jurisdiction to
adopt and enforce local ordinances to regulate THC product businesses
including, but not limited to, local zoning and land use requirements and
business license requirements.
   (G)   A requirement for a THC product retailer license will not unduly
burden legitimate business activities of retailers who sell or distribute THC
products to adults but will allow the city to regulate the operation of lawful
businesses to discourage violations of state and local THC product-related
laws.
   (H)   In making these findings and enacting this chapter, it is the intent
of the City Council to ensure responsible THC product retailing, allowing legal
sale and access without promoting increases in use, and to discourage
violations of THC product-related laws, especially those which prohibit or
discourage the marketing, sale or distribution of THC products to youth under
21 years of age.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the
city or other units of government for educational, research, and training
purposes, or for investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and
regulations relating to licensed products.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. An establishment that meets the definition of
exclusive liquor store in M.S.§ 340A.101, subd. 10.
   LICENSED PRODUCT OR THC PRODUCT. Any product that contains
tetrahydrocannabinol and that meets the requirements to be sold for human or
animal consumption under M.S. § 151.72.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address storefront or other permanent type of structure authorized
for sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public, including, but not be limited to,
grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores, gasoline service
stations, bars, and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is
not a physical exchange of the licensed products between the licensee or the
licensee's clerk and the customer. ASSISTANCE or INTERVENTION means the actual
physical exchange of the licensed product between the customer and the licensee
or employee.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric, or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or
other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.03 STATE LAW ADOPTED. 
   Except as further restricted or regulated by this chapter, the provisions of
M.S. § 151.72 relating to the definition of terms, licensing, and all other
matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of
cannabinoid products are adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. Whenever there is an inconsistency between the provisions of M.S. §
151.72, as amended, and the provisions of this section, the more restrictive
provision shall govern.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.04 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell, directly or
indirectly, on any pretense or by any device, any licensed product as part of a
retail commercial transaction within the corporate limits of the city without
first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses,
telephone numbers, and email addresses, the name of the business for which the
license is sought, and any additional information the city deems necessary.
Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk shall forward the
application to the City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting. If the City Clerk determines that an application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with notice of
the information necessary to make the application complete.
   (C)   Business information. A business applicant, at the time of
application, shall furnish the city with a list of all persons that have an
interest of 5% or more in the business. The list shall name all owners and show
the interest held by each, either individually or beneficially for others. It
is the duty of each business licensee to notify the City Clerk in writing of
any change in ownership in the business. Any change in the ownership or control
of the business shall be deemed equivalent to a transfer of the license, and
any such license shall be revoked 30 days after any such change in ownership or
control unless the licensee has notified the Council of the change in ownership
by submitting a new license application for the new owners, and the Council has
approved the transfer of the license by appropriate action. The city may at any
reasonable time examine the transfer records and minute books of any business
licensee to verify and identify the owners, and the city may examine the
business records of any other licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the
interest which persons other than the licensee have in the licensed business.
The Council may revoke any license issued upon its determination that a change
of ownership of a licensee has actually resulted in the change of control of
the licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character of
its management and its operation, but no such action shall be taken until after
a hearing by the Council on notice to the licensee.
   (D)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the application
for a license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as
necessary to complete any investigation of the application or the applicant it
deems necessary. If the City Council approves the license, the City Clerk shall
issue the license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license,
notice of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant's right to appeal the City Council's decision. If a license
application is denied, the earliest an applicant may reapply is 12 months from
the date the license is denied.
   (E)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid until
December 31 of the year of issue.
   (F)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in this chapter.
   (G)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this article shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person or
business to whom the license was issued. The transfer of any license to another
location, business, or person is prohibited.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this chapter shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter is a privilege and does not entitle the license
holder to automatic renewal of the license.
   (K)   Limits. No more than 2 licenses allowed in city limits.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.05 CONDITIONS.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be issued subject to the
conditions set forth in this chapter and subject to all city ordinances and
sections of this code applicable thereto and the laws of the state. All other
regulations contained in state law and city code, including but not limited to
Chapter 8 of this City Code as applicable to a respective otherwise licensed
business enterprise regarding operational requirements and restrictions and
prohibited acts and sales, shall not be limited by virtue of issuance of a
license under this chapter and shall be complied with as applicable to the
otherwise licensed business enterprise selling or offering for sale THC
products to the same extent as if THC products were not sold or offered for
sale by the otherwise licensed business enterprise. All such regulations
applicable to an otherwise licensed business shall remain applicable to the
operations of the otherwise licensed business enterprise during the term of a
license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.06 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established by the City Council and adopted by resolution in the city fee
schedule in an amount not to exceed any maximum allowed by state law, and may
be amended from time to time. The license fee shall not be prorated for
licenses issued for less than a full year. The license fee shall be in addition
any fee required by any applicable state agency and shall not exceed any
statutory maximum. No part of any license or investigation fee shall be
refunded unless an application is withdrawn before any action is taken thereon.
Any time an additional investigation is required because of a change in
ownership or control of a business or for any other reason, the licensee shall
pay an additional investigation fee to be determined by the city by resolution.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.07 INELIGIBILITY AND BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Ineligibility.
      (1)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a
moveable place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to
be licensed under this chapter.
      (2)   Exclusive liquor store. No license shall be issued to an exclusive
liquor store as defined in M.S. § 340A.101, subd. 10.
   (B)   Grounds for denial. Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a
license under this chapter include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
      (2)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years for any
violation of or has otherwise been adjudicated to have violated a federal,
state, or local law, other ordinance, provision, or other regulation relating
to the licensed products, but not including possession or sale of licensed
products.
      (4)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation or otherwise
adjudicated to have violated this chapter within the past 5 years.
      (5)   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked during the 12 months preceding the date of application, or the
applicant has or had an interest in another premises authorized to sell
licensed products, whether in the city or in another jurisdiction, that has had
a license to sell licensed products suspended or revoked during the same time
period, provided the applicant had an interest in the premises at the time of
the revocation or suspension, or at the time of the violation that led to the
revocation or suspension.
      (6)   The applicant is a business that does not have an operating officer
or manager who is eligible pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   The applicant is the spouse of a person ineligible for a license
pursuant to the provision of divisions (B)(2) and (3) of this section or who,
in the judgement of the Council, is not the real party in interest or
beneficial owner of the business to be operated, under the license.
      (8)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information. Any false statement
on an application, or any willful omission of any information called for on
such application form, shall cause an automatic refusal of license, or if
already issued, shall render any license issued pursuant thereto void and of no
effect to protect the applicant from prosecution for violation of this chapter,
or any part thereof.
   (C)   The city shall conduct a background investigation on all new
applications and applications to transfer a license. The city may conduct a
background and financial check on an application for a renewal of a license if
it is in the public interest to do so. If a license is mistakenly issued or
renewed to a person, or if a licensee shall subsequent to the issuance of the
license become ineligible to hold such license under the criteria contained in
this section, such license shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person
was or became ineligible for the license under this article and the city shall
provide the person with a notice of revocation, along with information on the
right to appeal.
   (D)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which real estate taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the city
or of the state are due, delinquent, or unpaid. If an action has been commenced
pursuant to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 278, questioning the amount or validity
of taxes, the Council may, on application by the licensee, waive strict
compliance with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes,
or any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding 1 year after
becoming due unless such 1-year period is extended through no fault of the
licensee.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   In general. No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product:
      (1)   By means of any type of vending machine.
      (2)   By means of self-service merchandising.
      (3)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by this chapter or state or other local law, ordinance
provision, or other regulation.
   (B)   Legal age; verification. No person shall sell any licensed product to
any person under the age of 21. Licensees shall verify by means of government
issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at least 21 years of
age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of 30. That the
person appeared to be 30 years of age or older does not constitute a defense to
a violation of this section.
   (C)   Legal age; sale. No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed to
sell any licensed product.
   (D)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage,
which will be provided to the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
   (E)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at a nominal cost.
   (F)   Possession. No person under the age of 21 shall be in possession of
any THC product. Any person under the age of 21 in possession of a THC product
may be subject to a petty misdemeanor. Any person under the age of 21 in
possession of any THC product may have it confiscated by a law enforcement
officer.
   (G)   Hours and days of sale. No sale of THC products may be made between
10:00 p.m, and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.09 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Storage. All licensed products shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public.
   (B)   Minimum clerk age. Individuals employed by a licensed retail
establishment under this chapter must be at least 18 years of age to sell
edible cannabinoid products.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.10 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees are responsible for the actions of their employees in regard
to the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of licensed products on the licensed
premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of any licensed product by an
employee shall be considered an act of the licensee. Nothing in this section
shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the employee to
any civil penalties that the city deems to be appropriate under this ordinance,
state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.11 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All premises licensed under this chapter shall be open to inspection
by the city during regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once
per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks.
   (B)   No person used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false
identification misrepresenting their age. All persons lawfully engaged in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about their age asked by the
licensee or their employee, and produce any identification, if any exists, for
which they are asked. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks shall
be supervised by law enforcement or other designated personnel. Nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
   (C)   Additionally, from time to time, the city will conduct inspections to
determine compliance with any or all other aspects of this chapter.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.12 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Administrative civil penalties-individuals. If a person who is not a
licensee is found to have violated this chapter, the person shall be charged an
administrative penalty as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine not to
exceed $50.
      (2)   Second violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   Third violation within 12 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine not to exceed $150.
   (B)   Same-licensee. If a licensee or an employee of a licensee is found to
have violated this chapter, the licensee shall be charged an administrative
penalty as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The Council shall impose a civil fine of $1,000
and suspend the license for not less than 3 days.
      (2)   Second violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $2,000 and suspend the license for not less than 10 consecutive days.
      (3)   Third violation within 36 months. The Council shall impose a civil
fine of $5,000 and shall revoke the license for at least 1 year.
   (C)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Any person who sells or offers to sell any
licensed product in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from seeking prosecution as a
misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 115.13 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of licensed products to
a person under the age of 21 as part of a lawfully recognized religious,
spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the
violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of
age as described by state law in M.S. § 340A.503, subd. 6.
(Ord. 115, passed 12-20-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Weapons
   
130.02   [Reserved]
   
130.03   Hosting an event or gathering with underage possession or consumption
of alcohol or alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
130.04   Sexual offender and sexual predator residency restrictions
§ 130.01 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No person except a police officer in the performance of duty shall,
within the city, discharge any gun, pistol or firearm of any description or
carry any like weapon unless it is dismounted or broken apart or carried in a
case in a manner so that it cannot be discharged.
      (2)   This division does not prevent the carrying of a handgun within the
city under a permit subject to the restrictions imposed by law.
   (B)   Air rifles, sling shots and bows and arrows. No person shall use or
discharge any air rifle, sling shot or bows and arrow within the city.
   (C)   Offense by parents, guardians. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of any person under the age of 18 years knowingly to permit the person
to violate any provision of this section.
(1985 Code, § 802.01)
§ 130.02 [RESERVED].
§ 130.03 HOSTING AN EVENT OR GATHERING WITH UNDERAGE POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION
OF ALCOHOL OR ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The City Council intends to discourage underage
possession and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a
private residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host
events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume
alcohol, regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering
supplied the alcohol.
   (B)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol; hydrated oxide of ethyl; or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and which contains 1/
2 of 1% or more of alcohol by volume, and which is fit for beverage purposes,
either alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of 3 or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control or
permit a gathering or event.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As natural/adoptive parent or stepparent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation or any
association of 1 or more individuals.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other places of assembly, public or private, where occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented or used with or without permission or compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering;
         (b)   At any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property;
         (c)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
         (d)   When the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage
person will or does:
            1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
         (e)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (D)(1)
above if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires
with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be
present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent's household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally-protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503 subdivision 1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any police officer or
sheriff’s deputy in the county.
   (G)   Penalty.  Violation of Division (D) is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 98, passed 11-1-2011)
§ 130.04 SEXUAL OFFENDER AND SEXUAL PREDATOR RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical
violence, and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who
present an extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are likely to
use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most sexual offenders
commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported, and are
prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of sexual
offender victimization to society at large, and specifically to the city, while
incalculable, clearly exorbitant.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to serve the city's compelling
interest to promote, protect, and improve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residence.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been convicted of a designated
sexual offense, regardless of whether adjudication has been withheld, in which
the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, or has been
categorized as a Level III sex offender under M.S. § 244.052 or a successor
statute, or similar statute from another state.
      DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE. A conviction, adjudication of delinquency,
commitment under M.S. Ch. 253B, or admission of guilt under oath without
adjudication involving any of the following offenses: M.S. §§ 609.342, 609.343,
609.344, 609.345, 609.352, 609.365, 617.23, 617.246, 617.247, 617.293,
successor statutes, or a similar offense from another state.
      PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides
for 14 or more consecutive days. An ownership interest by the person in such
residence is not required.
      TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, or resides
for a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year, and
which is not the person's permanent address, or a place where the person
routinely abides, lodges, or resides for a period of 4 or more consecutive or
non-consecutive days in any month, and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   (C)   Sexual offender and sexual predator residence prohibitions, penalties,
and exceptions.
      (1)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence:
         (a)   Within 600 feet of any school, playground, licensed day care
provider, or city park; or
         (b)   Within 300 feet of any designated public school bus stop, place
of worship which provides regular educational programs (for example, Sunday
school), or other places where children are known to congregate.
      (2)   Measurement of distance.
         (a)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest
outer property line of a school, licensed day care provider, or city park.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall maintain an official map showing
prohibited locations as defined by this section. The City Administrator shall
update the map at least annually to reflect any changes in the location of
prohibited zones. The map shall not be deemed conclusive or all encompassing
since prohibited zones change from time to time including, but not limited to,
designated public school bus stops or other places where children are known to
congregate.
      (3)   Prohibited activity. It is unlawful for any designated offender to
participate in a holiday event involving children under 18 years of age, such
as distributing candy or other items to children on Halloween, wearing a Santa
Claus costume on or preceding Christmas, or wearing an Easter Bunny costume on
or preceding Easter. Holiday events in which the offender is the parent or
guardian of the children involved, and no non-familial children are present,
are exempt from this division.
      (4)   Penalties. A person who violates this section shall be punished by
a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by confinement for a term not exceeding 90 days,
or by both such fine and confinement. Each day a person maintains a residence
in violation of this section constitutes a separate violation.
      (5)   Exceptions. A designated offender residing within a prohibited area
as described herein does not commit a violation of this section if any of the
following apply:
         (a)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166
or 243.167, or successor statute, prior to enactment of this section;
         (b)   The person was a minor when he/she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
         (c)   The person is a minor;
         (d)   The school or licensed day care provider within 600 feet of the
person's permanent residence was opened after the person established the
permanent residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the
residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 or 243.167; or
         (e)   The residence is a property owned or leased by the Minnesota
Department of Corrections.
   (D)   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to certain
sexual offenders and sexual predators; penalties.
      (1)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
trailer, or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
section, if such place, structure or part thereof, trailer, or other
conveyance, is located within a prohibited location zone described in this
section.
      (2)   A property owner's failure to comply with provisions of this
section shall constitute a violation of this section, and shall subject the
property owner to the code enforcement provisions and procedures as provided
herein.
      (3)   If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after signing a lease or otherwise agreeing to let the
offender reside on the property, the owner or property manager may evict the
offender.
(Ord. 140, passed 8-18-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICY
   
151.   BUILDINGS
   
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
153.   ZONING
   
154.   FLOODPLAINS
CHAPTER 150: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICY
Section
   
150.01   General
   
150.02   Statement of policy
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Standards for improvement
   
150.05   Improvements and maintenance costs eligible for special assessment
   
150.06   Distribution of assessment
   
150.07   Water distribution
   
150.08   Sanitary sewer system
   
150.09   Street distribution
   
150.10   Special assessment interest rates and terms
   
150.11   Source of funds; city share
   
150.12   Deferment of assessments
   
150.13   Deferment of special assessments; undeveloped property
   
150.14   Initiation of public improvement projects
§ 150.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   The special assessment is a tool or device used by cities to finance
capital improvements. The City Council is authorized to levy special
assessments by M.S. Chapter 429. Chapter 429 outlines the special assessment
process that cities are required to follow.
   (B)   This policy establishes a procedure for making public improvements and
levying special assessments in a fair and consistent manner, when an
improvement conveys special benefit to properties to finance those
improvements.
   (C)   It is the policy of the City Council that the amount of the assessment
for public improvements should not exceed the special benefit to the property.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.02 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Mapleton hereby declares that these
assessment policies contained herein are the policies that the city is
dedicated to follow as nearly as is possible, and practical, and that all
improvement costs shall, whenever possible, be assessed against benefitted
property as set forth in these policy statements.
   (B)   These assessment policies are designed to serve only as a general
guide for the City Council in allocating benefits to properties for the purpose
of defraying the cost of installing and improving public facilities.
   (C)   The Council reserves the right to vary from these policies if the
policies act to create obvious inequalities, or where the assignment of benefit
to particular property is difficult because of an extreme or unusual situation,
which is unlikely to occur in the future, or if the variance is deemed to be in
the best interest of the city.
   (D)   It is the intention of the Council, that in the event the literal
application of the provisions outlined herein would result in an inequitable
distribution of special assessments, the City Council reserves the right to
adjust the policy so as to achieve a more equitable distribution, without
formal amendment to the code.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA. The gross area of the parcel or lot which is benefitted, in terms of
square feet or acres. All property within district boundaries are to be
included. District boundaries shall be determined by the City Council based
upon the recommendation of city staff and the city's consulting engineer.
   AREA METHOD. Assessments may be distributed according to the gross area of
the benefitted lot or parcel. The assessable area shall be expressed in terms
of the number of acres or the number of linear feet subject to assessment.
   ASSESSABLE COST. Those costs, which in the opinion of the City Council, are
attributable to the need for service in the areas served by the improvement.
The assessable cost shall be equal to the project cost (defined below) of the
current project, minus city cost (as defined below), minus other financial
assistance (as defined below).
   ASSESSMENT. Area to be assessed (acres or linear feet) X assessment rate per
acre or linear feet. Where appropriate, an allowance will be made for streets.
When the area is platted, the deduction will be for actual and proposed street
right-of-way. For unplatted land with no streets platted or proposed, a
deduction of 20% of the gross acreage applies as a street credit.
   BENEFIT. Anything that promotes, enhances or improves the property or allows
the property owner to gain an advantage because of the improvement. It reflects
the increase in market value of the assessed property that is directly
attributable to the improvement.
   CITY COST. Where the project cost of an improvement is not entirely
attributable to the need for service to the areas served by the improvement, or
where unusual conditions beyond the control of the property owners in the area
served by the improvement would result in an inequitable distribution of
special assessments, the city may pay the CITY COSTS, which in the opinion of
the City Council represents the excess cost not directly attributable to the
area served.
   FRONT SIDE. The side of a property represented by its street address.
   OTHER FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
      (1)   If financial assistance is received from any other unit of
government, or from any other source to defray a portion of the cost of a given
improvement, the aid will first be used to reduce the city cost of the
improvement.
      (2)   If the financial assistance received is greater than the normal
city cost, the remainder of the aid will be used to reduce the special
assessments against the benefitting properties. Reductions will be applied on a
pro-rata basis.
   OVERLAY STREET CONSTRUCTION. Consists of a bituminous surface constructed by
applying a bituminous overlay to city streets and rolling to grade. Also
included may be shouldering and milling (where applicable). This overlay may
vary in thickness depending on the condition of the street to be surfaced. This
improvement does not include a gravel base and is designed as an interim
surface until at which time all subsurface utility construction has been
completed.
   PERCENT OVER BOND. A certain percentage rate is added to the special
assessments, above the rate at which bonds were sold, for the purpose of
obtaining the interest of extended repayment and recovering city administrative
costs. The rate shall be set at 2% over the general obligation bond rate for
the project.
   PERMANENT STREET CONSTRUCTION. Consists of and includes all necessary
grading, base, drainage, curb and gutter, and hard surfacing such as bituminous
and concrete. This improvement is constructed only after all underground
utilities have been installed in a street.
   PROJECT COST. Includes the cost of all necessary construction work required
to accomplish the improvement, plus expenses incurred or to be incurred making
the improvement, including engineering, legal, administrative, financing,
right-of-way and the contingent costs.
   TEMPORARY STREET CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Consists of an inexpensive asphalt surface constructed by applying
an asphalt overlay to city streets and rolling to grade.
      (2)   This overlay may vary in thickness depending on the condition of
the street to be surfaced.
      (3)   This improvement does not include a gravel base and is designed as
an interim surface until at which time all subsurface utility construction has
been completed. Seal coating shall also be considered as a temporary street
improvement.
   UNIT or LOT BASIS. The City Council may determine that the assessable cost
would be more equitably distributed on a UNIT BASIS, the assessable unit may be
the lot (i.e. a uniform per lot assessment,) utility connection or other
equitable unit adopted by the Council.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.04 STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   General. All streets shall be constructed according to the following
minimum design standards and any additional requirements of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Residential streets. All residential streets shall be of 7-ton design,
normally be 34 feet in width, measured between faces of curb.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.05 IMPROVEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE COSTS ELIGIBLE FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The following public improvements and related acquisition,
construction, extension and maintenance of improvements, authorized by M.S. §§
429.021 and 459.14 subd. 7, as they may be amended from time to time, are
eligible for special assessment within the City of Mapleton:
      (1)   Streets, sidewalks, pavement, curbs and gutters, including the
beautification thereof;
      (2)   Parking lots;
      (3)   Water works systems and appurtenances, within and without the
corporate limits;
      (4)   Sanitary sewer and storm sewer systems including appurtenances,
within and without the corporate limits;
      (5)   Street boulevard trees;
      (6)   Street lights, street lighting systems and special lighting
systems;
      (7)   Parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities, including the
purchase of equipment, within or without the corporate limits;
      (8)   Abatement of nuisances; including but not limited to, draining and
filling swamps, marshes and ponds on public and private property;
      (9)   Public malls, plazas or courtyards;
      (10)   District heating systems;
      (11)   Fire protection systems in existing buildings upon a petition
pursuant to M.S. § 429.031, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to
time; and
      (12)   The lining of a lateral sanitary sewer line.
   (B)   The City of Mapleton is also authorized by ordinance adopted pursuant
to M.S. § 429.021, as it may be amended from time to time, to recover, through
special assessment, the following maintenance costs:
      (1)   Snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks;
      (2)   Weed elimination from streets or private property;
      (3)   Removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards from
private property excluding any structure included under the provisions of M.S.
§§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Installation or repair of water service lines, street sprinkling
sweeping or other dust treatment of streets;
      (5)   The trimming and care of trees and the removal of unsound trees
from any street;
      (6)   The treatment and removal of insect infested or diseased trees on
private property;
      (7)   The repair of sidewalks and alleys;
      (8)   The operation of a street lighting system; and
      (9)   The operation and maintenance of a fire protection system.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.06 DISTRIBUTION OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Corner lots abutting improvements on two sides. The front side (as
defined above) will be assessed 100%, and 1/3 of the side frontage will be
assessed.
   (B)   Corner lots abutting improvements on three sides. For corner lots
abutting improvements on 3 sides, the assessment shall be the same as for
corner lots above, with the addition of 1/2 the frontage being assessed in the
event of improvements on a third side.
   (C)   Irregular lots. For irregular shaped lots, the frontage will be
calculated based on the building setback line in the Mapleton Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.07 WATER DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Trunk water systems.
      (1)   Defined as those improvements necessary to provide, purify and
distribute water throughout the city.
      (2)   Like improvements shall include treatment facilities, wells, water
towers and water mains 8 inches in diameter or greater.
   (B)   Assessable cost. If an improvement generally confers system wide
benefits, the total project cost may be assessed.
   (C)   Distribution of assessments. Where property has been subdivided for
residential or commercial purposes, the assessment will be a hook up basis.
Where land has not been subdivided, or is in use for other than residential
purposes, the assessment may be on an area basis.
   (D)   Laterals. Defined as water mains of 6 inches or less in diameter.
   (E)   Assessable costs.
      (1)   The assessable cost for construction of new laterals is 100% of
project cost.
      (2)   For repair and replacement, the benefitting properties will be
assessed 50% of the project cost on a flat rate basis.
      (3)   Calculated by 50% of the cost of the project divided by the number
of hook-ups to equal a flat rate for each hook up in the project. The remaining
50% shall be a city cost.
      (4)   This assessable cost does include the cost of service lines within
the city right-of-way, which is defined below.
   (F)   Distribution of assessments. Unless otherwise specified by the
Council, the assessable cost will be distributed on a hook-up basis.
   (G)   Service lines. Defined as a water distribution line that allows
individual connection of a building to the community water system.
   (H)   Assessable costs. The assessable cost is based on the entire project
cost for the service lines within the city right-of-way.
   (I)   Maintenance. The cost of repair, replacement and maintenance of water
service lines is the responsibility of the property owner.
   (J)   Oversized lines.
      (1)   In the event that oversized trunk water lines, over 6 inches in
diameter, is required for the purpose of providing service to areas beyond the
area or development under consideration, then the assessable cost shall be the
cost for the installation of a line 6 inches in diameter.
      (2)   Any additional cost for the increase in line diameter shall be
assumed by the city.
      (3)   All water main trunk lines and laterals shall meet the minimum
specifications of the City Engineer.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.08 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Trunk sewer systems. Trunk sanitary sewer systems include improvements
such as treatment facilities, lift stations and sanitary sewer service mains in
excess of 8 inches.
      (1)   Assessable costs. If an improvement benefits the entire system,
then total project costs may be assessed. In the case of trunk sanitary sewers,
benefited parties will be assessed in like manner as benefitted parties under
lateral sanitary sewer lines.
      (2)   Distribution of assessments. Per hook-up basis, unless determined
by the Council that the assessment should be on an area basis.
      (3)   Laterals. Defined as sanitary sewer lines 8 inches in diameter to a
depth of 12 feet. Sanitary sewer service line in excess of 12 feet in depth,
the excess cost will be at city cost.
      (4)   Assessable costs.
         (a)   For reconstruction or lining of laterals, the assessable cost is
50% of project cost. For new lateral construction, the assessable cost is 100%
of project cost. For new lateral construction, the total project cost will be
assessed on a per hook up basis for benefitting property owners.
         (b)   For repair and replacement, the benefitting properties will be
assessed 50% of the project cost on a flat rate basis. Calculated by 50% of the
cost of the project divided by the number of hookups. This assessable cost does
include the cost of service lines within the city right-of-way, which is
defined below.
      (5)   Services lines. Defined as a sanitary sewer line that allows
individual connection of a building to the community sanitary sewer system.
      (6)   Assessable costs. The assessable cost is based on the entire
project cost of the service line within the city right-of-way.
      (7)   Maintenance. The cost of repair, maintenance or replacement of
sanitary sewer service lines is the responsibility of the property owner.
      (8)   Oversized lines.
         (a)   In the event that oversized sewer trunk lines, over 8 inches in
diameter, is required for the purpose of providing service to areas beyond the
area or development under consideration, then the assessable cost shall be the
cost for the installation of the installation of a line 8 inches in diameter.
         (b)   Any additional cost for the increase in line diameter shall be
assumed by the city.
   (B)   Storm sewer; trunk lines and sump pump lines. The installation of
storm sewer, under drains and sump pump lines shall be required for all new
street construction or any street reconstruction.
      (1)   Under drains. Defined as a perforated tile line constructed along
the edge of a street to remove ground water.
      (2)   New construction; new developments. When storm sewer facilities are
installed in areas of new development, 100% of the cost of new truck storm
sewer lines and sump pump lines shall be assessed against the benefitting
properties on a frontage basis.
      (3)   Reconstruction; sump pump distribution lines: (under drains). Under
drains will be added to all street and or utility projects as deemed necessary
by the City Council.
      (4)   Assessment costs.
         (a)   The assessable cost is based on 50% of the total cost of the
project is assessed to each abutting property and the remaining 50% of the
project is assessed to the storm sewer district of Mapleton.
         (b)   All sanitary sewer trunk lines and sump pump lines shall meet
the minimum specifications of the City Engineer.
      (5)   Culverts.
         (a)   Culverts, storm water inlets and other drainage facilities will
be required where, in the opinion of the City Engineer, they are necessary to
insure adequate storm water drainage for the area.
         (b)   The City Engineer will decide in each area where and what size
culvert is needed in each area. The culvert will be installed by the city.
         (c)   All maintenance of the culvert will be the responsibility of the
property owner. The culvert will be put in a manner so that it slopes along the
driveway edge to avoid any drop off areas in the driveway or in the ditch.
         (d)   All existing culverts will be cleaned and maintained by the
property owner.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.09 STREET DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   New permanent street construction.
      (1)   Permanent street construction assessable costs: 100% of project
cost will be assessed against benefiting, abutting property on a front footage
basis.
      (2)   New permanent street will be considered any street without curb and
gutter.
   (B)   Permanent street reconstruction. Permanent street reconstruction
assessable costs: 50% of total project cost is assessed to benefitting,
abutting property on front footage basis, and the remaining 50% of project
costs is a city cost.
   (C)   Intersections. The cost of constructing or reconstructing street
intersections shall be paid by the
city.
   (D)   Alleys. All new and reconstructed alleys shall be assessed 100% to
adjoining property owners on a front foot basis. The cost for all alley
entrances (20 feet in width) to a street shall be at city cost.
   (E)   Driveways.
      (1)   Driveways are constructed in conjunction with street or sidewalk
construction.
      (2)   Driveways are a benefit only to the affected property and all costs
of driveway construction and reconstruction shall be borne and assessed 100%
against benefitting property on a cost per square yard basis.
      (3)   A driveway approach will be of standard size and no wider than 32
feet in width without the consent of the City Council.
   (F)   Overlays. Total project cost for overlay street construction is 100%
assessable against abutting property. Cost of the intersections shall be a part
of the project cost assessed to abutting property.
   (G)   Temporary street construction. Total project cost for temporary street
construction is 100% assessable against abutting property.
   (H)   Street boulevard trees. All street boulevard trees installed as part
of new street constructions or in reconstructing existing streets shall be
included as part of the overall project costs included in the assessment
calculations.
   (I)   Street lights.
      (1)   All costs for new streetlights installed as part of constructing
new streets or streetlights relocated as part of reconstructing streets are
included in the overall project costs and included in the assessment
calculations.
      (2)   In new subdivisions, the city may require the developer to finance
street light improvement rather than assessing the cost.
   (J)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   The City Council has declared that safe sidewalks are a necessary
and essential component of the city facilities and as so are a direct benefit
to the adjacent property owners.
      (2)   The cost of sidewalk construction will be assessed on the same
formula used for reconstructed streets.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.10 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT INTEREST RATES AND TERMS.
   (A)   The terms of assessments shall be determined by the City Council,
based upon life expectancy of the improvements and project financing.
   (B)   The maximum term may be 20 years.
   (C)   The Council shall apply an interest rate to unpaid assessments that
will enable the city to meet bond principal and interest payments as defined
under percent over bond under general definitions.
   (D)   The rate shall be set a 2% over the general obligation bond rate for
the project.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.11 SOURCE OF FUNDS; CITY SHARE.
   The City Council may, at its discretion, finance its share of costs for any
improvement in 1 or more of the following methods, or any combination.
   (A)   Street and other surface improvements:
      (1)   Pay all or portions of the reconstruction costs with ad valorem
city tax funds, municipal, state aid street funds, reserves or other funds,
which may be appropriate and available to the city from time to time; and/or
      (2)   For street reconstruction or repairs required due to a utility line
relocation repair, or replacement, the city shall require total cost covered
from the appropriate utility fund or whatever private utility company may be
involved.
   (B)   Water and sewer improvements:
      (1)   Pay all or portions of the project cost through an assessment of
all properties which have contributed to the inadequacy of the original project
and/or who are benefitted by the project;
      (2)   Require payment from utility revenues of the appropriate utility
fund; and/or
      (3)   Levy an ad valorem tax to pay all or a portion of the city's share
of any project or use other funds as may be available to the city from time to
time.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.12 DEFERMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The City Council may, at its discretion, grant a deferment of up to
3 years for the following improvements in new subdivisions: water and sanitary
sewer facilities, storm sewer facilities and curb and gutter construction.
      (2)   In the event that a deferment is granted under this section,
bituminous surfacing shall be required within 1 year after installation of
underground facilities, with no deferment provided on the bituminous surfacing.
      (3)   In the event that a lot is sold or a building permit is issued, the
deferred payment of the assessment no longer applies for that specific lot, and
the improvements are immediately assessed against the benefitting property.
      (4)   The Council shall either grant or deny the deferment and, if it
grants the deferment, it may set a rate at which interest is accrued for the
deferred balance and it may require payment of the interest due each year.
   (B)   Deferment of special assessments. The option to defer the payment of
special assessments shall terminate and all amounts accumulated plus applicable
interest shall become due upon the occurrence of any 1 of the following:
      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any per of the
property;
      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property; or
      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that immediate or
partial payment would impose no hardship.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.13 DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Council, may at its discretion grant a deferment of
undeveloped property for up to 5 years for the following improvements: water
and sanitary sewer facilities, storm sewer facilities, bituminous surfacing,
curb and gutter construction.
   (B)   When assessments are deferred, interest shall be due annually at the
rate established by the City Council when the assessment roll is prepared.
   (C)   The assessment rate shall be computed on a front footage basis. A lot
unit dimension may be set as the average width based on residential lots within
the improvement area.
   (D)   In the event that a lot is sold or a building permit is issued, the
deferred payment of the assessment no longer applies for that specific lot, and
the improvements are immediately assessed against the benefitting property and
payable.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
§ 150.14 INITIATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Action by City Council. The City Council may initiate an improvement
when, in its judgment, the action is required for the best interest of the
city.
   (B)   Citizen petition.
      (1)   Public improvement projects may be initiated by petition of no less
than 35% of the affected property owners.
      (2)   Petitions must be received by the City Administrator's office prior
to May 1 of any year.
      (3)   If the petitioned project includes improvements to 1 or more of the
following: sanitary sewer, storm sewer, sump pump lines, grading and graveling
or water main: petitions must be received by the City Administrator's office
prior to January 1 on any year.
      (4)   Petition for improvements submitted after that date will be
received and acted upon during that year only by special consent of the City
Council, or will be acted upon the following year.
(Ord. passed 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   City Administrator; assignment
   
151.02   Numbers on map
   
151.03   Building permit; assignment
§ 151.01 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; ASSIGNMENT.
   All lots and buildings on streets and avenues in the city shall be assigned
numbers by the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 1201.01)
§ 151.02 NUMBERS ON MAP.
   The numbers assigned to the various lots and buildings will be shown on a
map on file with the City Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 1201.02)
§ 151.03 BUILDING PERMIT; ASSIGNMENT.
   At the time a building permit is issued, the City Administrator will provide
the owner with the number assigned to the lot or building.
(1985 Code, § 1201.03)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Jurisdiction
   
152.003   Application of chapter
   
152.004   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats
   
152.005   Definitions
Submission and Approval
   
152.020   Preliminary plat
   
152.021   Filing
   
152.022   Contents
   
152.023   Approval or disapproval
   
152.024   Post review
   
152.025   Final plat
   
152.026   Contents
   
152.027   Filing fee
   
152.028   Certifications required in final plats
   
152.029   Supplementary documents and information
   
152.030   Approval or disapproval
   
152.031   Submission to Council
 
Minimum Design Standards
   
152.045   Blocks
   
152.046   Streets and alleys
   
152.047   Lots
   
152.048   Easements
   
152.049   Public sites and open spaces
 
Basic Improvements Required
   
152.060   General
   
152.061   Street improvements
   
152.062   Requirements
   
152.063   Water supply improvements
   
152.064   Public utilities
 
Variances; Surveys and Conveyance; Compliance
   
152.075   General
   
152.076   Recommendations
   
152.077   Registered land surveys
   
152.078   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
152.079   Conditions for recording
   
152.080   Building permits
   
152.081   Sale of lots from unrecorded plat
   
152.082   Unlawful actions
   
152.083   Violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the city at large,
the following sections are adopted so that adherence to same will bring results
beneficial to both parties.
   (B)   Because each new subdivision becomes a permanent unit in the basic
unit structure of the expanding community, and to which the community will be
forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of subdivisions will bring an
undesirable disconnected patchwork pattern and poor circulation of traffic
unless its design and arrangement is directed at a unified scheme of community
interests, all subdivision of land hereafter submitted for approval to the
Planning Commission shall, in all respects, fully comply with the regulations
hereinafter set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   It is the purpose of this chapter to make certain regulations and
requirements for the platting of land within the city pursuant to the authority
contained in M.S. Chapter 462, as it may be amended from time to time, which
regulations the Council deems necessary for the health, safety and general
welfare of this community.
(1995 Code, § 1301.01)
§ 152.002 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and subdivision of lands shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated area within 2
miles of its limits; provided that where a municipality lies less than 4 miles
from the limits of Mapleton, these regulation shall apply only to a line
equidistant from Mapleton and the municipality; and provided further, that the
governing body or bodies of unincorporated areas adjacent to the city have not
adopted ordinances for the regulation of subdivision of land or platting.
(1985 Code, § 1301.02)
§ 152.003 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Any plat hereafter made for each subdivision or each part thereof
lying within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared, presented for
approval, and recorded as herein prescribed.
   (B)   The regulations contained herein shall apply to the subdivision of a
lot, tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots, tracts or other division of
land for the purpose of sale or of building development, whether immediate or
future, including the resubdivision or replatting of land or lots.
   (C)   Division of land in tracts larger than 2-1/2 acres in area and 150
feet in width shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1301.03)
§ 152.004 APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall have been
reviewed by the City Planning Commission and approved by the City Council as
having fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1301.04)
§ 152.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   CITY. The City of Mapleton.
   COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Mapleton.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of items such as right-of-
way blocks, easements and lots.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer
or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements
of the city and in a form as required by the county for purposes of recording.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or quasi
public corporation, private corporation or a combination of any of them.
   PARKS and PLAYGROUNDS. Public lands and open spaces in the City of Mapleton
dedicated or reserved for and usable for recreation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access, to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for
the installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On street center line, the distances, vertically (up or
down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of
horizontal distance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Mapleton.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only 1 outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are paralleled and
adjacent to arterial streets and highways; and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   STREET, MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to abutting
properties.
   STREET, THOROUGHFARES or ARTERIAL STREETS. Those used primarily for heavy
traffic, and serving as an arterial traffic way between the various districts
of the community.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street right-of-way.
   STREETS, COLLECTOR STREETS. Those that carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principal
entrance streets of residential neighborhoods.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 2-
1/2 acres in area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land.
The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the context,
relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   TANGENT. A straight line projected from the ends of 2 curves, which is
perpendicular to a line in each curve drawn from the radii point to the end of
the curve.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentage of grade.
(1985 Code, § 1301.05)
SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL
§ 152.020 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat,
together with any necessary supplementary information.
(1985 Code, § 1302.01)
§ 152.021 FILING.
   Three copies of a preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision shall be
filed with the Planning Commission at least 10 days prior to a meeting of the
Commission at which consideration is requested.
(1985 Code, § 1302.02)
§ 152.022 CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Proposed name of subdivision. Name shall not duplicate or too closely
resemble name of existing subdivision;
   (B)   Location of boundary lines in relation to section, quarter section or
quarter-quarter section lines and any adjacent corporate boundaries, comprising
a legal description of the property;
   (C)   Names and addresses of the developer and the designer making the plat;
   (D)    Scale of plat, not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
   (E)   Date and north point;
   (F)   Existing conditions:
      (1)   Location, width and name of each existing or platted street or
other public way, railroad, right-of-way, utility right-of-way, parks and other
public open spaces, and permanent buildings within or adjacent to the proposed
subdivision;
      (2)   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts, or other
underground installations within the proposed subdivision or immediately
adjacent thereto, with pipe size, grades and locations shown;
      (3)   Names of adjacent subdivisions and owners of adjacent parcels of
unsubdivided land; and
      (4)   Topography with contour intervals of not more than 2 feet related
to U.S.G.S. datum; also the location of water courses, ravines, bridges, lakes,
wooded areas, approximate acreage and other features as may be pertinent to
subdivision.
   (G)   Proposed developments:
      (1)   The location and width of proposed streets, roadways, alleys,
pedestrian ways and easements;
      (2)   The location and character of all proposed public utility, lines,
including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas and power lines;
      (3)   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the number
or letter of each block;
      (4)   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches or
school sites or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use;
      (5)   Building setback lines with dimensions;
      (6)   Indication of any lots on which use other than residential is
proposed by the subdivider; and
      (7)   The zoning districts, if any, on and adjacent to the tract.
   (H)   Supplementary requirements: 2 copies of profiles shall be furnished
for each proposed street, showing existing grades and proposed approximate
grades and gradients on the center line of the street. The location of proposed
culverts and bridges shall also be shown.
(1985 Code, § 1302.03)
§ 152.023 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at
least 10 days prior to a Commission meeting at which consideration is
requested.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall take action on the preliminary plat
within 60 days of date of submission.
   (C)   Approval or disapproval of a preliminary plat will be conveyed to the
subdivider in writing within 10 days after the meeting of the Planning
Commission at which the plat was considered.
   (D)   In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of
the reason for the action and what requirements will be necessary to meet the
approval of the Commission.
(1985 Code, § 1302.04)
§ 152.024 POST REVIEW.
   (A)   After review and approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning
Commission, the preliminary plat, together with the recommendations of the
Planning Commission, shall be submitted to the City Council for approval.
   (B)   When the preliminary plat is filed with the City Council for approval,
a published notice shall be given of a public hearing to be held within 30 days
thereafter, in a newspaper published in the municipality or in the county.
   (C)   At the hearing all persons interested therein may be heard and the
Council may thereafter approve or disapprove the plat. Approval or disapproval
of the preliminary plat shall be made by the Council within 60 days and be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing within 10 days after the meeting of the
City Council at which the plat was considered.
   (D)   In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of
the reason for the action and what requirements will be necessary to meet the
approval of the Council.
   (E)   The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance
of the subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed with the
preparation of the final plat.
   (F)   This approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period
of 1 year, unless an extension is granted by the City Council.
   (G)   If the final plat has not been submitted for approval within this
period, a preliminary plat must again be submitted to the Planning Commission
and the City Council for approval.
(1985 Code, § 1302.05)
§ 152.025 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall prepare
and submit to the Commission a final plat for recording purposes, together with
other supplementary information and certificates.
   (B)   The final plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at least
10 days prior to a regular meeting of the Commission.
   (C)   Three copies of the final plat shall be furnished which shall bear the
original signature of the owner or owners and be duly acknowledged, along with
additional copies as required for approval by county authorities.
(1985 Code, § 1302.06)
§ 152.026 CONTENTS.
   The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be prepared in
accordance with provisions of state statutes and county regulations and shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision. Name shall not duplicate or too closely resemble
the name of any existing subdivision;
   (B)   (1)   Location of subdivision. Location shall be given by section,
township, range, county and state, and shall include descriptive boundaries of
the subdivision, based on an accurate traverse, giving angular and linear
dimensions which must mathematically close.
      (2)   The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall
be 1 foot in 5,000;
   (C)   (1)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the
final plat.
      (2)   Locations of monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments or the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to the reference points or monuments.
      (3)   Permanent markers shall be placed at each corner of every lot and
every block or portion of a block, point of curvature and points of tangency on
street lines, and at each angle point on the boundary of the subdivision.
      (4)   A PERMANENT MARKER is deemed to be a steel rod or pipe, 1/2 inch or
larger in diameter extending at least 3 feet below the finished grade.
      (5)   In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in
the locations prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted.
      (6)   The exact location of all markers shall be shown on the final plat,
together with accurate interior angles, bearings and distances.
      (7)   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all quarter section points
within the subdivision or on its perimeter;
   (D)   (1)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, park and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and tenths of feet, with the
length radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground.
      (2)   Dimensions shall be shown from all angle points of curve to lot
lines;
   (E)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. If blocks are to be numbered or
lettered, these should be shown clearly in the center of the block;
   (F)   The exact locations, width and names of all streets to be dedicated;
   (G)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
   (H)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas other
than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use;
   (I)   Building setback lines on front and side streets with dimensions;
   (J)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat;
   (K)   Scale of plat (to be shown graphically and in feet per inch), date and
north point;
   (L)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along strips marked utility easements;
   (M)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas not
previously dedicated as follows: streets, alleys and other public areas shown
on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated; and
   (N)   Statement establishing building setback lines as follows: building
setback lines are hereby established as shown on the accompanying plat and no
building or portion thereof shall be built between this line and the street
line.
(1985 Code, § 1302.07)
§ 152.027 FILING FEE.
   (A)   The final plat shall be accompanied by a required fee in the amount of
$75 plus $1 for each lot in the subdivision, plus engineering expenses.
   (B)   The foregoing fees are to be used to offset th expense of the city in
connection with the review, inspection, approval or disapproval of the plat
which may thereafter be submitted.
(1985 Code, § 1302.08)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
§ 152.028 CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED IN FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage holder of record,
of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public
areas.
   (B)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor, to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
   (C)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full.
   (D)   (1)   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission and the Mayor and City
Council.
      (2)   The form of approval by the Planning Commission is as follows:
Approved by the Planning Commission of the City of Mapleton this ___ day of
__________, 20_____.
Signed: ___________________________________, Chairperson
Attest: ____________________________________, Secretary
      (3)   The form of approval by the City Council is as follows:
Approved by the City of Mapleton, Minnesota this ____ day of _________,
20_____.   
Signed: _______________________________, Mayor
Attest: ________________________________, City Administrator
(1985 Code, § 1302.09)
§ 152.029 SUPPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION.
   The following items shall be furnished to the City Planning Commission upon
request:
   (A)   A complete set of street profiles showing grade lines as constructed;
   (B)   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision or any
part thereof; and
   (C)   Other pertinent information and documentation as requested by Planning
Commission.
(1985 Code, § 1302.10)
§ 152.030 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval or disapproval of the final plat shall be made within 60 days
of submission to the City Planning Commission.
   (B)   The decision of the City Planning Commission shall be conveyed to the
subdivider in writing within 10 days after the meeting at which the plat was
considered.
   (C)   If the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the
reason for the action and what requirements shall be necessary to meet the
approval of the Commission.
(1985 Code, § 1302.11)
§ 152.031 SUBMISSION TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   After review and approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, the final plat, together with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission shall be submitted to the City Council for approval.
   (B)   If accepted, the final plat shall within 60 days be approved by
resolution.
   (C)   This resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all streets,
alleys, easements or other public ways, and parks, or other open spaces
dedicated to public purposes.
   (D)   If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to approve a plat shall be
set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to the person or
persons applying for the approval.
(1985 Code, § 1302.12)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.045 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length.
      (1)   In general, intersecting streets, determining block lengths, shall
be provided at intervals so as to serve cross-traffic adequately and to meet
existing streets.
      (2)   Where no existing plats control, the blocks in residential
subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,320 feet in length, except where
topography or other conditions justify a departure from the maximum.
      (3)   In blocks longer than 800 feet pedestrian ways and/or easement
through the block may be required near the center of the block.
      (4)   Blocks for business or industrial use should normally not exceed
600 feet in length.
   (B)   Block width.
      (1)   The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to allow 2
tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
      (2)   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be of a width
so as to be considered most suitable for their respective use, including
adequate space for off-street parking and deliveries.
(1985 Code, § 1303.01)
§ 152.046 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   The arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall
conform as nearly as possible to existing thoroughfares and streets.
      (2)   Except for cul-de-sacs, streets normally shall connect with streets
already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts.
      (3)   The arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be
considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to run-off of storm water, to public convenience and
safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to
be served.
   (B)   (1)   Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by
non-local traffic.
      (2)   Dead end streets are prohibited, but cul-de-sacs will be permitted
where topography or other conditions justify their use.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs shall normally not be longer than 500 feet, including a
turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end, with an outside curb
radius of at least 50 feet and right-of-way radius of not less than 60 feet.
   (C)   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, those lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and opening of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with
provision for adequate utility connections for resubdivision.
   (E)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to intersect
as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or other
conditions justify variations. The minimum angle of intersection of streets
shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with an off-set of less than 125
feet shall be avoided.
   (F)   (1)   Whenever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to the
right-of-way of limited access highway or an established thoroughfare,
provision should be made for a marginal access street approximately parallel
and adjacent to the boundary of the rights-of-way, or for a street at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between a street and right-
of-way.
      (2)   The distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach connections to future grade separations,
or for lot depths.
   (G)   (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts,
except that this requirement may be waived where other definite and assured
provision is made for service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and
parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
      (2)   Except where justified by special conditions, such as the
continuation of an existing alley in the same block, alleys will not be
approved in residential districts.
      (3)   Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than 20 feet wide. Dead
end alleys shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (4)   If unavoidable, dead end alleys may be approved if adequate turn-
around facilities are provided at the closed end.
   (H)   Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except where it is
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in conformity
with the other requirements of these regulations, and where it is found that it
will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so it may be improved in the public interest.
   (I)   (1)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths for streets and thoroughfares shall be as follows:
         (a)   Thoroughfare: 80 feet;
         (b)   Collector street: 70 feet;
         (c)   Minor street: 66 feet;
         (d)   Marginal access street: 50 feet;
         (e)   Alley: 20 feet; and
         (f)   Pedestrian way: 10 feet.
      (2)   Where existing or anticipated traffic on primary and secondary
thoroughfares warrants greater widths of rights-of-way, these shall be
required.
   (J)   (1)   Street grades, wherever feasible, shall not exceed 7%, and in no
case shall be less than 1%. Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical parabolic curves.
      (2)   The minimum length of these curves, in feet shall be 15 times the
algebraic difference in the percent of grades of the 2 adjacent slopes for
collector streets.
      (3)   For minor streets the minimum length shall be 7-1/2 times the
algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the 2 adjacent slopes.
   (K)   (1)   Where street center lines within a block have a deflection angle
of more than 10 degrees there shall be a connecting curve with a radius
adequate to insure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for minor and
collector streets and of a greater radii as the Planning Commission may
determine for special cases.
      (2)   There shall be a tangent between all reversed curves of a length in
relation to the radii of the curves so as to provide for a smooth flow of
traffic.
   (L)   (1)   All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication as public
streets. No private streets will be allowed unless a developer requests a
private street.
      (2)   A private street will be allowed if the street meets the city
standards when being built. The street shall be maintained by an association
that shall be responsible at its own expense for maintenance of the street in
the development.
      (3)   Maintenance will consist of:
         (a)   Removal of snow and ice, sweeping and patching as required to
keep the streets in a safe driving condition in a manner consistent with the
city's practices;
         (b)   Crack sealing and seal coating at a frequency and in a manner
consistent with the city's practices;
         (c)   Repaving or reconstruction of streets as required and in a
manner consistent with the city's practices; and
         (d)   Street lighting, installation and electrical cost of street
lights on the private street will be at the association’s cost.
(1985 Code, § 1303.02) (Am. Ord. passed 6-17-2003)
§ 152.047 LOTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot width depth and area shall conform to the requirements
as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to permit
appropriate building setback from both streets.
   (C)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   (1)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where lots back on
a thoroughfare or other arterial streets, or where topographic or other
conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable.
      (2)   Double frontage lots shall have an additional depth of at least 20
feet in order to allow space for screen planting along the back lot line.
   (E)   Every lot must have at least the minimum required frontage on a public
dedicated street other than an alley.
   (F)   (1)   Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots intended
for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by the
Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   On those lots which are intended for business use, the setback
shall be at least that required by the Zoning Ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 1303.03)
§ 152.048 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   An easement for utilities, at least 6 feet wide, shall be
provided along each side of a side line of lots and/or the rear line of lots
where necessary to form a continuous right-of-way, at least 12 feet in width.
      (2)   If necessary for the extension of main water or sewer lines or
similar utilities, easements of greater width may be required along lot lines
or across lots.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the City Council, by ordinance, upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the outside
of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the exterior
angle so that pole guys will fall along the side lot lines.
   (D)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage
way, channel or stream, a storm water easement, drainage right-of-way or park
dedication, whichever the Planning Commission may deem the most adequate,
conforming substantially with the lines of water courses shall be provided,
together with the further width or instruction, or both, as will be adequate
for the storm water drainage of the area.
      (2)   The size and location of the easements shall be recommended by the
Planning Commission for action by the Council.
(1985 Code, § 1303.04)
§ 152.049 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   In subdividing land or resubdividing an existing plat, due
consideration shall be given by the subdivider to the dedication or reservation
of suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public or semi-
public recreational areas or open spaces.
   (B)   All areas to be reserved for or dedicated to public use shall be
indicated on the preliminary plat in order that it may be determined when and
in what manner the areas will be dedicated to or acquired by the appropriate
agency.
(1985 Code, § 1303.05)
BASIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED
§ 152.060 GENERAL.
   (A)   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, all improvements
required shall be paid for by the developer or owner.
   (B)   In areas between the corporate limits of Mapleton and parallel lines 2
miles therefrom, regulations imposed by the Blue Earth County Subdivision
Ordinance shall be complied with.
(1985 Code, § 1304.01)
§ 152.061 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The following street improvements shall be made by the owner or
subdivider in accordance with standards and specifications as approved by the
City Council. The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved.
   (B)   Curb and gutter will be required before streets will be paved.
   (C)   Storm sewers, culverts, storm water inlets and other drainage
facilities will be required where, in the opinion of the City Planning
Commission, they are necessary to insure adequate storm water drainage for the
subdivision.
(1985 Code, § 1304.02)
§ 152.062 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision where a connection to the city sewer system is available at or
reasonably near the boundary of the subdivision.
   (B)   Storm sewers shall be constructed to serve all properties in the
subdivision where a natural outlet is available or where a connection to the
city storm sewer system is available at or near the boundary of the
subdivision.
   (C)   If approved by the City Council, both storm and sanitary sewers may be
installed under contract by the city after petition for the same by the owner.
The cost shall be assessed against all lots in the subdivision over a period of
not to exceed 10 years.
   (D)   All sewer construction must conform to standards and specifications by
the city for the work.
(1985 Code, § 1304.03)
§ 152.063 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water distribution mains, including fire hydrants, shall be installed
to serve all properties in the subdivision where a connection is available at
or reasonably near the boundary of the subdivision.
   (B)   If approved by the City Council, water mains may be installed under
contract by the city after petition for the same by the owner.
   (C)   The cost shall be assessed against all lots in the subdivision over a
period not to exceed 10 years.
   (D)   All water construction must conform to standards and specifications by
the city for the work.
(1985 Code, § 1304.04)
§ 152.064 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways, in a manner so as not to conflict with other underground
services.
   (C)   All drainage and other underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements.
(1985 Code, § 1304.05)
VARIANCES; SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE; COMPLIANCE
§ 152.075 GENERAL.
   Whenever it is found that the land included in a subdivision plat, presented
for approval, is of a size or shape or is subject to, or is affected by
topographical location or conditions or is to be devoted to usage that full
conformity to the provisions of this chapter is impossible or impractical, the
City Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council by letter of
transmittal that the Council authorize variations or conditional exceptions in
the final plat so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured.
(1985 Code, § 1305.01)
§ 152.076 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   In recommending variations or conditional exceptions, the Commission shall
find the following:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property;
   (B)   That the variations or exceptions are necessary for reasonable and
acceptable development of the property in question;
   (C)   That the granting of the variations or conditional exceptions will not
be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the
vicinity in which the particular property is situated; and
   (D)   The variations or exceptions do not adversely affect the Comprehensive
Plan.
(1985 Code, § 1305.02)
§ 152.077 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   (A)   It is the intention of this chapter that all registered land surveys
in the city should be presented to the Planning Commission in the form of a
preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for
preliminary plats.
   (B)   It is further intended that the Planning Commission shall first
approve the arrangements, sizes and relationship of proposed tracts in
registered land surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or roads
should be so dedicated.
   (C)   Unless the Planning Commission approval and City Council approval in
accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter have been obtained,
building permits will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have been so
subdivided by registered land surveys.
   (D)   Furthermore, the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or
roads or may refuse to improve, repair or maintain any tracts unless approved
by the City Planning Commission and the City Council in accordance with the
standards set forth in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1306.01)
§ 152.078 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   No conveyance of 2 or more parcels in which the land conveyed is
described by metes and bounds shall be made or recorded if the parcels
described in the conveyance are less than 2-1/2 acres in area and 150 feet in
width unless the parcel was a separate parcel of record at the effective date
of this chapter.
   (B)   Building permits will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have
been subdivided and conveyed by this method and the city may refuse to take
over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair, or maintain any like
tracts.
(1985 Code, § 1306.02)
§ 152.079 CONDITIONS FOR RECORDING.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the office of the
Recorder of the County or have any validity until the plat thereof has been
prepared, approved and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1307.01)
§ 152.080 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building permits will be issued by the City of Mapleton for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or to any
lot in a subdivision, as defined herein, until all requirements of this chapter
have been fully complied with.
(1985 Code, § 1307.02)
§ 152.081 SALE OF LOTS FROM UNRECORDED PLAT.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, trade or otherwise convey or offer to sell,
trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or portion of the
city unless the plan, plat or replat shall have first been recorded in the
office of the Recorder of the County.
(1985 Code, § 1308.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.082 UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to receive or record in any public office any plans,
plats or replats of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys or other
portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for
the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Planning
Commission and the Mapleton City Council.
(1985 Code, § 1308.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.083 VIOLATIONS.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each month during which compliance is delayed shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 1308.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purposes
   
153.002   Scope
   
153.003   Interpretation
   
153.004   Short title
   
153.005   Rules and definitions
   
153.006   Districts
   
153.007   Zoning map
   
153.008   General provisions
   
153.009   Opting out of state regulations on temporary family health care
dwellings
Farm Residence District
   
153.020   Purpose
   
153.021   Use regulation
   
153.022   Conditional uses
   
153.023   Height, width, yard and area regulations
Low Density Residential District
   
153.035   Permitted uses
   
153.036   Conditional uses
   
153.037   Height, width, yard and area requirements
   
153.038   Compatibility of moved structures
High Density Residential District
   
153.050   Purpose
   
153.051   Permitted uses
   
153.052   Conditional uses
Highway Business District
   
153.065   Permitted uses
   
153.066   Conditional uses
   
153.067   Height, yard, area and design regulations
General Business District
   
153.080   Permitted uses
   
153.081   Conditional uses
   
153.082   Height, yard, area and design regulations
Industrial District
   
153.095   Permitted uses
   
153.096   Conditional uses
   
153.097   Height, yard, area and lot coverage regulations
   
153.098   Lot coverage
Other Regulations
   
153.105   Accessory uses
   
153.106   Height regulations
   
153.107   Area regulations
   
153.108   Yard regulations
   
153.109   Accessory buildings
   
153.110   Off-street parking and loading space
   
153.111   Signs
   
153.112   Trucks, trailers and campers
   
153.113   Satellite dishes and other dishes
   
153.114   Home occupation regulations
   
153.115   Adult uses
   
153.116   Decks and ramps for handicap access in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts
   
153.117   Limited permit
   
153.118   Time limits
   
153.119   Dogs
   
153.120   Solar energy systems
Non-Conforming Uses and Conditional Use Permits
   
153.130   Alterations
   
153.131   Application
   
153.132   Publication, hearing and the like
Board of Zoning Adjustment and Other Provisions
   
153.145   Creation and membership
   
153.146   Powers
   
153.147   Appeals
   
153.148   Procedure
   
153.149   Amendment
   
153.150   Enforcement
   
153.151   Violations
Building and Construction of Residential Swimming Pools and Spas
   
153.165   Definitions
   
153.166   Construction
   
153.167   Fencing
   
153.168   Permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSES.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Mapleton by the
following: reducing congestion in the streets, securing safety from fire, panic
and other dangers; providing adequate light and air; preventing the
overcrowding of land; avoiding undue concentration of population; facilitating
the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and
other public requirements; conserving the value of properties; and encouraging
the most appropriate use of land.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of all land
and every building or portion of a building erected, moved in, altered with
respect Mapleton shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any existing building or structure and any existing use of properties
not in conformity with the regulations herein prescribed shall be regarded as
nonconforming.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
maximum requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience and general welfare shall be applied.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions than
those of any statute, other ordinance or restrictions than those of any
statute, other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be
controlling.
   (C)   Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation
impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of that statute,
other ordinance or regulation shall be controlling.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.004 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Mapleton Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.005 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words
in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word
BUILDING shall include the word STRUCTURE; the word LOT shall include the word
PLOT; and the word SHALL is mandatory and the word MAY is permissive.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main
building which is located on the same lot as the main building and the use of
which is clearly incidental to the use of the main building. The building shall
not exceed 10 feet by 12 feet and 10 feet to the peak.
      ALLEY. A public thoroughfare less than 30 feet in width and providing
secondary access to abutting property.
      APARTMENT. A part of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms,
which is designed for, intended for or used as a residence for 1 family or an
individual, and equipped with cooking facilities.
      APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more apartments grouped in 1 building.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. See JUNK or SALVAGE YARDS.
      BILLBOARD. A structure upon which a sign is located which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment, which is located
or provided elsewhere than, upon the premises where the structure is located.
      BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or motel where meals, or
meals and lodging, are regularly provided for compensation to 5 or more
persons, pursuant to previous arrangements and not to the public at large.
      BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure for
persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind, and when separated by party
walls without openings, each portion of the building so separated shall be
deemed a separate building.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average of the highest
and lowest point of that portion of a lot covered by a building to the highest
point of the roof.
      BUILDING SETBACK. The line of a building related to the property line.
      COMMUNITY BUILDING. A building owned by a group of people having a common
interest, usually owned by a non-profit organization. An example of a COMMUNITY
BUILDING is a church.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by this chapter
that would not be appropriate generally, but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions and/or conditions upon a finding that:
         (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
         (b)   The use or development conforms to the comprehensive land use
plan of the city; and
         (c)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      CURB LEVEL. The curb level is the level of the established curb in front
of the building measured at the center of the front.
      DWELLING. Any building or part thereof, which is designed or used
exclusively for residential, purposes by 1 or more human beings, permanently or
transiently.
      DWELLING, 1-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by 1 family.
      DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by 2 families.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building designed for more than 2 families.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single housekeeping unit and
using common cooking facilities provided that unless a majority of the members
are related by blood or marriage, no like family shall contain over 5 persons.
      FARMING. The cultivation of the soil and all activities incident thereto
and/or breeding, raising and sheltering of livestock, and all activities
incident thereto.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building designed and used for the storage of private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident in the principal building
and in which no business, service or industry is conducted.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any structure except those described as a private garage
used for the storage or care of power-driven vehicles, or where any vehicles
are equipped for operation, repair or are kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on by an occupant of a dwelling as
an accessory activity to the main residential use of the building, and meeting
the following restrictions:
         (a)   Not more than 1 person shall be employed other than residents of
the building;
         (b)   The occupation shall be conducted wholly within the dwelling or
an accessory building;
         (c)   Floor area devoted to the occupation shall not exceed 25% of the
total ground area occupied by the buildings on the lot;
         (d)   The occupation shall not be objectionable to adjacent residences
due to noise, hours of operation, traffic, electrical interference and the
like; and
         (e)   There shall be no display or evidence apparent from the exterior
of the lot that the premises are being used for any purpose other than that of
a dwelling.
      JUNK or SALVAGE YARD. Land or building where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products from wrecking of
automobiles and other vehicles.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises, on which 3 or more dogs, more than 4 months
of age, are kept.
      LOT. For zoning purposes, as covered by this chapter, a lot is a parcel
of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for
use, coverage and area, and to provide yards and other open spaces as are
herein required. The lot shall have frontage on an improved public street or an
officially approved private street permanently reserved as the principal means
of access to abutting property, and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record; or
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds, provided that in
no case of division or combination shall any residual lot or parcel be created
which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Blue Earth County or of a
parcel of land described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Blue Earth County.
      LOT TYPES.
         (a)   A CORNER LOT is defined as a lot located at the intersection of
2 or more streets.
         (b)   A LOT ABUTTING ON A CURVED STREET OR STREETS shall be considered
a CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the lot meet
at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. See lots marked A(1) in the
diagram.
         (c)   An INTERIOR LOT is defined as a lot other than a corner lot with
only 1 frontage on a street other than an alley.
         (e)   A THROUGH LOT is a defined as a lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than 1 street other than an alley. THROUGH LOTS with frontage
on 2 streets may be referred to as DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOTS.
      MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or residence on wheels, skids or rollers designed
to be used for human habitation. Also termed a HOUSE TRAILER.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership or control,
which has been planned and improved for the placement of 2 or more mobile
homes.
      NARROWEST WIDTH DIMENSION. The narrowest width of a dwelling. This width
shall not be less than 22 feet and shall be applicable to 75% of the length of
the dwelling.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of
this chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it
is situated.
      PARKING SPACE. An area 9 feet by 19 feet with acceptable ingress and
egress.
      PUBLIC-OWNED BUILDING. A building owned by a political subdivision.
Examples are buildings owned by the city or the school district.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING, 1-FAMILY.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, HALF. That portion of a building under a gable, hip or gambrel
roof, the wall plates of which, on at least 2 opposite exterior walls, are not
more than 2 feet above the floor of the story.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare 30 feet or more in width, affording a
primary means of access to abutting property.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having a location on the
ground.
      USE. The purpose, for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a
lot or a building located on the same lot as the accessory use.
      YARD. Any space which is open and unobstructed from the ground to the sky
and which is located on the same lot with a building.
      YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street line and
front of the building projected to the sidelines of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. An unoccupied open space, except for accessory buildings, on
the same lot with a building, between the rear lines of the building and the
rear line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
between the building and sideline of the lot, and extending from the front yard
to the rear yard.
   (C)   Adult use definitions.
      ADULT USE-BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business, which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film if a building or portion
of a building is not open to the public generally but only to 1 or more classes
of the public extending any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or
significant portion of the items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if a building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT USE-COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club, which excludes minors
by reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-HOTEL OR MOTEL. Adult hotel or motel means a hotel or motel
from which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material
is presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if a building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE-MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to customers and who
engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by customers.
      ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material is a
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE-NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity
the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are
designated for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT USE-SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USES. Adult uses include adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult motion picture rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters,
adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult
companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/
sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture
arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting
studios, and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places
open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis
on the presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas which are capable of being seen by
members of the public.
      ADULT USES-ACCESSORY. A use, business or establishment having 10% or less
of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or 20% or less of its gross
receipts derived from movie rentals or magazine sales.
      ADULT USES-PRINCIPAL. A use, business or establishment having more than
10% of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of its
gross receipts derived from, any adult use.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any persons;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and/or
         (g)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.006 DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the City of Mapleton is hereby designated
as follows:
   (A)   Residential Districts:
      (1)   R-1 Farm District;
      (2)   R-2 Low Density District; and
      (3)   R-3 High Density District.
   (B)   Industrial District: M-1 Industrial District.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.007 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the zoning map and the map is hereby made a
part of this chapter, which shall be known as the Mapleton zoning map.
   (B)   The map and all notations, reference and date shown thereon
incorporated by reference into this chapter and shall be as much a part of it
as if all were fully described herein.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.008 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Amendments.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
maintain the map. Amendments to the zoning map shall be recorded thereon within
30 days after official publication of amendments.
      (2)   The Mapleton zoning map shall be kept on file in the City
Administrator office.
   (B)   District boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated,
either the centerline of streets, alleys or lines extended, or lines parallel
or perpendicular thereto.
      (2)   Where figures are shown on the Mapleton zoning map between a street
and a district boundary line, they indicate that the district boundary line
runs parallel to the street line at a distance there from equivalent to the
number of feet so indicated, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   Annexation. Any land annexed to the city shall be placed in the R-
1 Farm Residence District until placed in another district by action of the
City Council after recommendation of the City Planning Commission.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.009 OPTING OUT OF STATE REGULATIONS ON TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE
DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subdivision 9, the
city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 153.009, passed 8-2-2016)
FARM RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 153.020 PURPOSE.
   To recognize a district that is best suited for the transition between urban
and agricultural use, to prevent unplanned, non-farm development, and to permit
orderly and economic development of public services and utilities.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.021 USE REGULATION.
   In an R-1 Farm Residence District, no building or land shall be used or
divided, and no building shall be erected, converted or structurally altered,
unless otherwise provided herein, except for 1 or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Farming and truck gardening, including farm buildings, nurseries,
greenhouses, horticulture, apiaries, roadside stands and other related
agricultural activities, excluding livestock raising, livestock feedlots and
intensive poultry farming;
   (C)    Home occupations, as defined in §
153.114; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to the
above uses.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.022 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the R-1 Residential District by
conditional use permit. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132:
   (A)   Airports, cemeteries, gun clubs, curling rinks and golf courses;
   (B)   Kennels and animal hospitals;
   (C)   Churches, schools, public owned buildings and community buildings; and
   (D)   Public-owned parks and public-owned playgrounds.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.023 HEIGHT, WIDTH, YARD AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected or altered shall
exceed 2-1/2 stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §§
153.130 through
153.132.
   (B)   Width regulations. All structures used for residential occupancy shall
have a minimum width of 22 feet at its narrowest width dimension, and shall be
affixed to a permanent foundation constructed of concrete block, poured
concrete or wood.
   (C)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 30
feet.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more streets,
the front yard depth regulations are applicable on each street side of each
corner lot.
      (3)   No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line of
either street.
   (D)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard, on each side of the
building, having a width of not less than 15 feet.
   (E)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the depth of the lot.
   (F)   Lot area regulations. Every lot or tract of land upon which a single-
family dwelling is erected shall have an area of not less than 22,000 square
feet and an average width of not less than 150 feet, except that if a lot or
tract has less area or width than herein required and was legally platted and
was of record at the time of the passage of this chapter, that lot may be used
for any of the uses permitted in this section.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.035 PERMITTED USES.
   In an R-2 Residential District, no building or land shall be used and no
building shall be erected, structurally altered, converted or enlarged unless
otherwise provided herein, except for 1 or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Single-family and 2-family dwellings;
   (B)   Parks and playgrounds owned or operated by public agencies;
   (C)   Farming, except raising livestock;
   (D)   Garage, private (see § 153.037(G) for size limitation of garages); and
   (E)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses customarily incidental to the
above uses.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.036 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in an R-2 Residential District by
conditional use permit. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132:
   (A)   Churches;
   (B)   Community buildings that are not publicly owned;
   (C)   Curling rink;
   (D)   Golf courses;
   (E)   Home occupations as defined in §
153.114;
   (F)   Multiple-family residences;
   (G)   Public buildings, memorial buildings and water supply buildings or
structures;
   (H)   Public schools, elementary or high, or private schools having a
curriculum equivalent to a public school; and
   (I)   Other uses of the same general character as those in §
153.035.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.037 HEIGHT, WIDTH, YARD AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building hereafter erected or altered shall
exceed 2-1/2 stories or 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Width and foundation regulations.
      (1)   All new single-family dwellings constructed shall have a minimum
width of 24 feet, in any of the classes of residence districts.
      (2)   All new single-family dwellings constructed shall have a
foundation, in any of the classes of residence districts, described as follows:
         (a)   Constructed of concrete block, poured concrete or treated
lumber;
         (b)   Constructed as to encompass the perimeter dimensions of the
single-family dwelling unit, ground level perimeter; and
         (c)   The foundation shall be supported by footings. All structures
shall have frost footings at a minimum of 4 feet.
   (C)    Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 30
feet. Where a lot is located at the intersection of 2 or more streets, there
shall be a front yard on each street side of each corner lot.
      (2)   No accessory buildings shall project beyond the front yard line of
either street.
   (D)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard, on each
side of a building, having a width of not less than 10 feet from buildings not
exceeding 20 feet in height.
      (2)   For buildings exceeding 20 feet in height, there shall be a side
yard on each side of a building having a width of 10 feet plus 1 foot of side
yard for each 1 foot of building height over 20 feet.
      (3)   Whenever a lot of record existing at the time of passage of this
chapter has a width of less than 80 feet, the side yard on each side of the
building may be reduced to a width of not less than 10% of the width of the
lot, but in no instance shall it be less than 6 feet.
   (E)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the depth of the lot or 10 feet off back property line.
   (F)   Lot area regulations.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain an area of not less than 9,000 square feet, and shall not be less than
an average of 75 feet in width and 120 feet in depth.
      (2)   If a lot was legally platted and was of record at the time of
passage of this chapter, and has less area, width or depth than herein
required, that lot may be used for any of the uses permitted in this district.
      (3)   A lot on which there is erected a new 2-family dwelling shall have
an area of not less than 15,000 square feet and an average width of not less
than 100 feet, or an average depth of not less than 120 feet, but in no case
shall the lot be smaller than 15,000 square feet.
      (4)   A lot on which there is erected a new multiple-family dwelling
shall contain an area of not less than 15,000 square feet for the first 2
units, plus 2,000 square feet for each additional dwelling unit.
   (G)   Not more than 35% of a lot shall be occupied by buildings.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001; Am. Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
§ 153.038 COMPATIBILITY OF MOVED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Before any house or other structure is moved onto a vacant lot,
the Planning Commission shall report to the Council whether the structure will
be compatible with other development in the area.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit photographs taken from 2 or more angles
of the structure to be moved and photographs of the lot on which the structure
is to be located together with photographs of adjacent lots and structures.
      (3)   All proposed exterior improvements shall be completed within 180
days of the issuance of the permit, and all landscaping shall be completed
within 240 days of the issuance of the permit, it the Council determines that
the applicant has failed to comply within that time period, the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine (as dictated by the
current Minnesota State Code, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
      (4)   Each day on which the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offence.
      (5)   The penalty to be transmitted by the City Administrator to the
County Auditor for collection as a special assessment. In case of extreme
hardship, the property owners may appear before the Council to request an
extension to the original permit.
   (B)   Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point of the wall of a
building to the lot line in question, subject to the following qualifications:
      (1)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front yard
a distance not exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches. Overhang of 1-foot is required in R-
1 and R-2 districts;
      (2)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance not
exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches;
      (3)    A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required
front yard a distance not exceeding 6 feet. An open railing no higher than 3
feet may be placed around the place; and
      (4)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into
any side or rear yard to the same extent, except that no porch, terrace or
outside stairway shall project into the required side yard distance except on
existing lots that are 50 feet or less in width; in that instance, allowable
architectural features may project into the required side yard a distance of 2
feet.
   (C)   A wall, fence or hedge shall not exceed 3 feet in height in the
required front yard. A 4-foot fence may be allowed if the fence is chain link
or if the zoning board deems there are no visibility problems to traffic. There
can be no plants of any kind on a chain link fence to obstruct view, or 7 feet
in height in the required side and rear yards. Any wall or fence exceeding 3
feet in height, shall maintain a 3 foot setback from a lot line unless:
      (1)   Mutual agreement can be demonstrated with abutting property owners;
      (2)   Maintenance easement agreement can be drafted and agreed to by both
affected parties; and
      (3)   Mutual ownership and responsibility agreements can be drafted and
demonstrated to the City Council.
   (D)   In the districts where filling stations are allowed, pumps and pump
islands may be located within a required yard provided they are not less than
15 feet from any street right-of-way lines.
   (E)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth, which may cause danger
to traffic on a street or public road by obscuring the view.
   (F)   In determining the depth of rear yard for any building where the rear
yard opens into the alley, 1/2 the width of the alley, but not exceeding 10
feet, may be considered as a portion of the rear yard.
   (G)   (1)   Where an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
      (2)   A detached accessory building not over 1 story and not exceeding 10
feet in height may occupy not to exceed 30% of the area of any rear yard. No
detached accessory building shall be located within 5 feet of any rear lot line
or side lot lines.
      (3)   An accessory building shall not be closer than 5 feet to the main
building unless attached to and made a part of the main building, except as
otherwise provided in this section
   (H)    A garage or building larger than 10 feet by 12 feet or a building 120
square feet or larger shall be considered a dwelling for purposes of side and
rear yard regulations and requirements and 10 feet off the rear property line.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.050 PURPOSE.
   To recognize a district that is suitable for high-density residential
development thus preserving value and character of the low-density residential
areas.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.051 PERMITTED USES.
   In an R-3 Residential District, no building or land shall be used and no
building shall be erected, structurally altered, converted or enlarged unless
otherwise provided herein, except for 1 or more of the following uses:
      (A)   All uses permitted in §
153.035, provided those uses comply with regulations established in §
153.037.
   (B)   Mobile homes in mobile home parks provided that:
      (1)   The land occupied by the park is maintained in single ownership or
control and no individual lot is transferred to other ownership;
      (2)   The owner presents plans and specifications for the proposed park
in a form suitable for making the determination required herein;
      (3)   Access to the mobile home park is from a major street;
      (4)   The proposed site contains not less than 1 acre, and has no more
than 5 mobile home spaces per gross acre;
      (5)   The park and all mobile homes within comply with appropriate
general ordinances and health and sanitary regulations;
      (6)   The park is suitably located for community facilities, including
water supply, sewage disposal, schools, shopping facilities and services, and
police and fire protection;
      (7)   The site is suitable for the purpose intended so far as soil,
ground water level, drainage, and topography are concerned;
      (8)   The location of the park will not be detrimental to the adjacent
properties, and fencing and screening shall be provided where required by the
Planning Commission and City Council; and
      (9)   Lot sizes shall not be less than 5,000 square feet, with a maximum
lot coverage of 30% of the total lot area.
   (C)   Mobile homes on private land lots provided that:
      (1)   The occupant of the home must own the lot on which it is located;
      (2)   The developer presents plans and specifications for the proposed
development that are suitable for the making of the determination required
herein;
      (3)   Access to individually owned property sites and parks is from a
major street;
      (4)   The proposed site contains not less than 2 acres and has not more
than 5 mobile homes per gross acre;
      (5)   That all mobile homes comply with appropriate ordinances and health
and sanitary regulations;
      (6)   The development is suitably located for community facilities,
including water supply, sewage disposal, schools, shopping facilities, police
and fire protection;
      (7)   The site is suitable for the purpose for which it is intended so
far as soil, ground water level, drainage and topography are concerned;
      (8)   The location of the park will not be detrimental to the adjacent
properties, and screening or fencing will be provided as the Planning
Commission and City Council may dictate;
      (9)   Minimum lot size shall be not less than 6,000 square feet, with a
maximum of 70% coverage of the total park area;
      (10)   Each lot must have a width of not less than 100 feet;
      (11)   Each lot must have a front yard setback of not less than 20 feet,
side yard of 8 feet, and rear yard of 10 feet;
      (12)   No building may be closer than 8 feet to any other building;
      (13)   All units will have skirting within 60 days of their placement;
and
      (14)   All units must be tied down with approved tie downs.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.052 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in an R-3 Residential District by
conditional use permits. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132:
      (A)   Airports, cemeteries, gun clubs and curling rinks;
      (B)   Public owned buildings; memorial buildings, community buildings and
meter supply buildings or structures; and
      (C)   Other uses of the same general character as those in §
153.051 above.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.065 PERMITTED USES.
   The following shall be permitted uses in the B-1 Highway Business District:
   (A)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to permitted uses in this
section;
   (B)   Antique, gift shop and florist shop;
   (C)   Artist's and photographer's studio;
   (D)   Automobile or auto body repair;
   (E)   Automobile sales, trailer sales, used car lots, motorcycle and
recreational vehicle sales;
   (F)   Automobile service stations for sale of gasoline or diesel fuel oil
and accessories;
   (G)   Bowling alley, skating rink, roller rink and curling rink;
   (H)   Clinics, medical and dental;
   (I)   Drive-in restaurants or similar uses that provide goods a patrons in
automobiles;
   (J)   Drive-in retail stores and service uses;
   (K)   Drive-in theater;
   (L)   Food market;
   (M)   Garden and agricultural supply store;
   (N)   Ice vending station;
   (O)   Implement sales and showrooms;
   (P)   Marine and boat sales;
   (Q)   Miniature golf course, archery or golf driving range;
   (R)   Mortuary or funeral home;
   (S)   Motel or tourist camp;
   (T)   Municipal service buildings;
   (U)   Professional and business offices;
   (V)   Restaurants, tearooms and cafés; and
   (W)   Veterinary clinic and hospital.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.066 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the B-1 Highway Business District by
conditional use permits. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132:
   (A)   Advertising and business signs;
   (B)   Bars, cocktail lounges or businesses serving alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   Billboards;
   (D)   All uses permitted in §§
153.080 and
153.095 below; and
   (E)   Other business activities of the same general character as indicated
in §
153.065.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.067 HEIGHT, YARD, AREA AND DESIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 2-1/2 stories or 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Front yard regulations. In the B-1 Highway Business District, a front
yard of 30 feet shall be required.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. In the B-1 Highway Business District, no side
yard shall be required except no building shall be located within 20 feet from
any side lot line abutting any Residential District.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations.
      (1)   In the B-1 Highway Business District, no building shall be located
closer than 20 feet from any rear lot line abutting any Residential District.
      (2)   The minimum rear yard may not be used for off-street parking or
loading space when abutting any Residential District.
   (E)   Lot coverage. Not more than 50% of the lot area shall be occupied by
buildings.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.080 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the B-2 General Business District:
   (A)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted in this
section;
   (B)   Animal or pet shop;
   (C)   Apartment-second story, related to commercial structure;
   (D)   Apparel shop;
   (E)   Armory, convention hall or exhibition hall;
   (F)   Art and school supply, book or stationery store;
   (G)   Bank, savings and loan association and insurance office;
   (H)   Billiard and pool hall;
   (I)   Bus station and taxi stand;
   (J)   Business and professional office;
   (K)   Cabinet or carpenter shop;
   (L)   Camera, photographic supply store and photographic studio;
   (M)   Church, hospital, club and lodge;
   (N)   Commercial radio or television broadcasting station;
   (O)   Confectionery shop and bakery;
   (P)   Dance hall, nightclub or tavern;
   (Q)   Department store;
   (R)   Dry cleaning;
   (S)   Frozen food locker;
   (T)   Furniture, house furnishings and applicant store;
   (U)   Garage-public, automobile repair and sales;
   (V)   Grocery store;
   (W)   Hardware store and hobby shop;
   (X)   Jewelry store;
   (Y)   Job printing, newspapers, lithographing and publishing;
   (Z)   Leather goods and luggage shop;
   (AA)   Library-public;
   (BB)   Mortuary;
   (CC)   Municipal and governmental buildings;
   (DD)   Musical studios, musical instrument store and record shop;
   (EE)   News and magazine stand;
   (FF)   Paint, wallpaper and interior decorating store;
   (GG)   Pawn shop;
   (HH)   Pet hospital;
   (II)   Physical culture, health club and gymnasium;
   (JJ)   Pipe and tobacco shop;
   (KK)   Plumbing, television or radio repair when operated as an accessory
use to a retail sales establishment;
   (LL)   Restaurant, tearoom, café or tavern;
   (MM)   Shoe sales and shoe repair shop;
   (NN)   Sporting goods store;
   (OO)   Tailor shop;
   (PP)   Theater;
   (QQ)   Tire, battery or automobile seat cover shop;
   (RR)   Upholstering and furniture repairing; and
   (SS)   Variety store, dry goods and notions.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.081 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in B-2 General Business District by
conditional use permits. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132 below:
   (A)   First floor apartments related to commercial structures; and
   (B)   Other general business activities of the same general character as
indicated in §
153.080 above.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.082 HEIGHT, YARD, AREA AND DESIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed 45 feet in height.
   (B)   Front yard regulations. In the B-2 General Business District, no front
yard shall be required, except no building shall be located closer than 30 feet
to the street where a Residential District is located across the street from
the applicable lot.
   (C)   Side yard regulations. In the B-2 General Business District, no side
yard shall be required, except no building shall be located within 20 feet of
any side lot line abutting any Residential District.
   (D)   Rear yard regulations. In the B-2 General Business District, no rear
yards shall be required, except no building shall be located closer than 20
feet to any rear lot line abutting any Residential District.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.095 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the M-1 Industrial District:
   (A)   Accessory use customarily incidental to uses permitted in this
section;
   (B)   Bottling establishment;
   (C)   Custom shop for making articles or products sold at retail on the
premises;
   (D)   Laboratory, research and testing;
   (E)   Laundry and dry cleaning establishments;
   (F)   Manufacture or assembly of boats;
   (G)   Manufacture of crates, boxes, baskets, furniture, veneers, cabinet
work and similar wood items;
   (H)   Manufacture of fabrics, clothing, pillows, mattresses, rugs, hosiery
and millinery;
   (I)   Manufacture and storage of food products, bakery, candy, ice cream,
dairy, poultry, vegetable processing and canning, but excluding slaughtering;
   (J)   Manufacture or assembly of medical or dental equipment, drafting,
optical and musical instruments, watches, clocks, games, toys and electronic or
electrical items;
   (K)   Manufacture of metal products such as bolts, nuts, screws, rivets,
tools, dies, ornamental iron, sheet metal, electrical appliances and hardware
products;
   (L)   Manufacture of plastic or fiberglass items;
   (M)   Milk distribution station;
   (N)   Nursery stock, growing, handling, crating and sorting;
   (O)   Office building directly related to any part of the above uses;
   (P)   Plumbing, heating, glazing, painting, paperhanging, roofing,
ventilating and electrical contractors, blacksmith shop, carpentry, soldering
and welding shop;
   (Q)   Storage or warehouse;
   (R)   Wholesale business establishments; and
   (S)   Yard for storage, sale and distribution of building materials.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.096 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the M-1 Industrial District by
conditional use permits. Conditional use permits shall be procured as provided
in §§
153.131 and
153.132:
   (A)   All uses permitted in §§
153.065 and
153.080;
   (B)   Agricultural chemicals and fertilizer storage structures;
   (C)   Apartments-first floor, related to industrial structures;
   (D)   Bottling plant;
   (E)   Building material sales and storage;
   (F)   Cartage and express facilities and freight terminals;
   (G)   Electric light or power generation station;
   (H)   Elevators, grain storage structures and grain drying systems;
   (I)   Monument works;
   (J)   Slaughter houses and livestock sales yard;
   (K)   Other industrial uses of the same general character as listed in §
153.095; and
   (L)   All other industries, which may be, classified heavy industry.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.097 HEIGHT, YARD, AREA AND LOT COVERAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of more than 40 feet above ground level
to the roof. Air conditioning or dust collecting equipment on the top of roofs
shall be no more than 25 feet higher than the roof level.
   (B)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than 30
feet.
      (2)   There shall be a side yard on each side of a building, each having
a depth of not less than 10 feet, except where abutting a Residential District,
in which case the side yard shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (C)    Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the lot, except where abutting a Residential District, in
which case the rear yard shall not be less than 40 feet.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.098 LOT COVERAGE.
   Not more than 50% of the total area of a lot shall be covered by buildings.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 153.105 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses, in addition to those hereinbefore specified
shall be permitted in any Residential District, if the accessory uses do not
alter the character of the premises in respect to their use for the purpose
permitted in the district:
   (A)   The renting of rooms or the providing of table board in a dwelling as
an incidental use to that of its occupancy as a dwelling of the character
permitted in the respective district, but not to the extent of constituting a
hotel as defined in this chapter, unless permitted in the district;
   (B)   The operation of necessary facilities and equipment in connection with
schools, colleges, universities, hospitals and other institutions permitted in
the district;
   (C)   Recreation, refreshments and service buildings in public parks and
playgrounds; and
   (D)   Structures used to house pets owned by the occupants of the principal
structure shall be located no further than 10 feet from the principal structure
and no closer than 10 feet from adjoining lot line.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.106 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than 1-foot rise or fall
in 7 feet of horizontal distance from the established street elevation at the
property line, 1 story in addition to the number permitted in the district in
which the lot is situated shall be permitted on the downhill side of any
building.
   (B)   In any district with a height limit of less than 50 feet, public and
semi-public buildings, schools and churches, hospitals and other institutions
permitted in the district may be erected to a height not exceeding 50 feet. The
front, rear and side yards shall be increased 1 foot for each 1 foot by which
the building exceeds the height limit hereinbefore established for the
district.
   (C)   Height limitations as set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased by 100% when applied to the following:
      (1)   Cooling towers;
      (2)   Elevator pen houses;
      (3)   Flag poles; and
      (4)   Monuments.
   (D)   Height regulations as set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased with no limitation when applied to the following, provided a
conditional use permit is issued to increase height:
      (1)   Chimneys or smokestacks;
      (2)   Church domes, spires, belfries and roof ridges;
      (3)   Grain elevators;
      (4)   Schools, colleges and university buildings; and
      (5)   Television and radio broadcasting antennae.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.107 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No lot shall be so reduced that the area of the lot or dimensions of
the open spaces shall be smaller than herein prescribed.
   (B)   (1)   No dwelling shall hereafter be erected or altered unless there
is direct access to it from a street or highway through an open space on the
same lot.
      (2)   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to close
the present means of access to an existing dwelling or so as to diminish this
means to a width less than the width of the existing dwelling.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.108 YARD REGULATIONS.
   Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point of the wall of a building
to the lot line in question, subject to the following qualifications.
   (A)   (1)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches.
      (2)   All new built homes, modular homes and homes moved into the city
require a 1-foot overhang on all sides of building.
   (B)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance not
exceeding 4 feet, 6 inches.
    (C)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding 6 feet. An open railing no higher than 3 feet may
be placed around the place.
   (D)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into any
side or rear yard to the same extent, except that no porch, terrace or outside
stairway shall project into the required side yard distance except on existing
lots that are 50 feet or less in width; in that instance, allowable
architectural features may project into the required side yard a distance of 2
feet.
   (E)   (1)   A wall, fence or hedge shall not exceed 3 feet in height in the
required front yard. A 4-foot fence may be allowed if the fence is chain link
or if the zoning board deems there are no visibility problems to traffic.
      (2)   There can be no plants of any kind on a chain link fence to
obstruct view, or 7 feet in height in the required side and rear yards.
      (3)   Any wall or fence exceeding 3 feet in height, shall maintain a 3-
foot setback from a lot line unless:
         (a)   Mutual agreement can be demonstrated with abutting property
owners;
         (b)   Maintenance easement agreement can be drafted and agreed to by
both affected parties; and
         (c)   Mutual ownership and responsibility agreements can be drafted
and demonstrated to the City Council.
   (F)   In the districts where filling stations are allowed, pumps and pump
islands may be located within a required yard provided they are not less than
15 feet from any street right-of-way lines.
   (G)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth, which may cause danger
to traffic on a street or public road by obscuring the view.
   (H)   In determining the depth of rear yard for any building where the rear
yard opens into the alley, 1/2 the width of the alley, but not exceeding 10
feet, may be considered as a portion of the rear yard.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001; Am. Ord. 1409.04, passed 12-7-
2004)
§ 153.109 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Where an accessory building is attached to the main building, it shall
be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   (1)   A detached accessory building not over 1 story and not exceeding
10 feet in height may occupy not to exceed 30% of the area of any rear yard. No
detached accessory building shall be located within 5 feet of any rear lot line
or side lot lines.
      (2)   An accessory building shall not be closer than 5 feet to the main
building unless attached to and made a part of the main building, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   A garage or building larger than 10 feet by 12 feet or a building 120
square feet or larger shall be considered a dwelling for purposes of side and
rear yard regulations and requirements. A building of this size or larger must
be 10 feet off the rear property line.
   (D)   (1)   A wall, fence or hedge shall not exceed 3 feet in height in the
required front yard. A 4-foot fence may be allowed if the fence is chain link
or if the zoning board deems there are no visibility problems to traffic, or 7
feet in height in the required side and rear yards.
      (2)   Any wall or fence exceeding 3 feet in height, shall maintain a 3-
foot setback from a lot line unless:
         (a)   Mutual agreement can be demonstrated with abutting property
owners;
         (b)   Maintenance easement agreement can be drafted and agreed to by
both affected parties; and
         (c)   Mutual ownership and responsibility agreements can be drafted
and demonstrated to the City Council.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001; Am. Ord. 1409.05, passed 12-7-
2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.110 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Required number of off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Not less than 1 off-street parking space, consisting of 300 square
feet located behind the established building line, with access from a street or
alley, shall be provided on any lot on which a main building is hereafter
erected.
      (2)   The following types of uses shall provide additional off-street
parking space, as indicated, which parking space shall have proper access from
a street or alley and shall be located on the lot on which the use is situated:
         (a)   Assembly or exhibition hall without fixed seats: 1 parking space
for each 100 square feet of floor space;
         (b)   Auditorium, theater or other places of public assemblage: a
minimum of 1 space for every 6 seats;
         (c)   Boarding and lodging house: 1 space for each 2 persons;
         (d)   Bowling alley: 5 spaces for each bowling lane;
         (e)   Churches: 1 space for each 3 seats in the nave;
         (f)   Convalescent or nursing home: 1 space for each 4 beds;
         (g)   Drive-in restaurants or similar use: a minimum of 20 spaces;
         (h)   Dwelling, multiple: 1.5 spaces for each apartment unit;
         (i)   Dwelling, 2-family: 1 space for each family;
         (j)   Filling stations: 4 parking spaces, plus 2 spaces for each
service stall. Parking spaces shall not include the parking spaces required for
gas pump areas;
         (k)   Golf course, golf club house, country club or public swimming
pool: 20 spaces, plus 1 for each 300 feet of floor area in principal structure;
         (l)   Hospital: 1 space for each 3-hospital beds, plus 1 space for
each 2 employees on the major shift;
         (m)   Hotel, motel or tourist cabin court: 1 space for each rental
room or suite;
         (n)   Manufacturing and warehouse buildings: 1 parking space for each
3 employees, based on peak employment of the largest shift, but no less than 1
space for every 1,000 square feet of floor space.
            1.   The space shall be considered required open space associated
with the permitted use unless otherwise stated. It shall not be reduced or
encroached upon in any manner after the use is established.
            2.   Where the space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot
with the principal use, the City Council, with the approval of the City
Planning Commission, may permit the space to be located on other off-street
property if the space is within 300 feet of the permitted use, measured along
lines or public access, unless specifically waived by the City Council.
            3.   Off-street parking facilities existing at the effective date
of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced to an amount less than that
required under this chapter for a similar new building or use. Off-street
parking facilities provided to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall
not subsequently be reduced below the requirements of this chapter.
            4.   In computing the number of parking spaces required, the
following rules shall govern: floor space shall mean the gross floor area of
the specific use. Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required
shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.
            5.   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically
mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature as
determined by the City Planning Commission.
         (o)   Office building, medical or dental clinic: 4 parking spaces,
plus 1 additional parking space for each 500 square feet of floor space area
over 1,000 square feet;
         (p)   Public senior or junior high school: 10 spaces for each
classroom;
         (q)   Restaurant in the B-1 Highway District, café or tea room or
similar use: 1 space for each 200 square feet of floor space; and
         (r)   Stores and other establishments in a B-1 Highway Business
District: except as otherwise specified herein, shall have a minimum of 1 space
for each 200 square feet of floor space.
   (B)   Required loading areas.
      (1)   In any commercial or industrial district, space for loading of
vehicles shall be provided on the same lot for every building used or designed
to be used for commercial or industrial purposes.
      (2)   One loading space at least 10 feet by 25 feet shall be provided for
each 20,000 square feet of floor area in the building.
      (3)   No building or part thereof in a B-1 Highway Business District, or
an M-1 Industrial District, heretofore erected which is used for any of the
uses specified for the district, shall hereafter be enlarged or extended
without providing off-street parking and loading space as provided for in this
section.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.111 SIGNS.
   (A)   Any signs hereafter erected or maintained shall conform to the
provisions of this section and any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (B)   The following types of signs, and no other, shall be permitted:
      (1)   Official traffic and street signs;
      (2)   In Residential Districts, only non-commercial signs, such as
trespassing signs, signs indicating the private nature of a driveway or premise
shall be permitted, provided that the area on 1 side of any like sign shall not
exceed 2 square feet;
      (3)    Identification signs for schools, churches, hospitals or similar
institutions, and for clubs, lodges, farms, estates or similar uses, are
permitted provided that the area on 1 side of any like sign shall not exceed 12
square feet;
      (4)   Real estate signs, including signs advertising the sale or rental
of premises, are permitted provided the area on 1 side of any like signs shall
not exceed 6 square feet. Signs indicating the location and direction of
premises in the process of development are permitted provided the area on 1
side of any like sign shall not exceed 24 square feet;
      (5)   Temporary signs of contractors, architects, mechanics and artisans
are permitted, provided that the signs shall be removed promptly upon
completion of the work and further provided that the signs shall not exceed 24
square feet in area;
      (6)   Business or industrial signs may be erected and maintained in
conjunction with a commercial or industrial use, provided:
         (a)   That the area on 1 side of all like signs erected on 1 street
frontage of any 1 premises shall not exceed 50 square feet, unless authorized
by a conditional use permit issued by the City Council; and
         (b)   The sign, except a directional sign, is erected only on the
premises on which the use to which the sign relates is conducted.
      (7)   Billboards shall be permitted in B-2, General Business District, M-
1 Industrial District and B-1 Highway Business District, provided they are
included as part of the permitted aggregate sign space for that use.
   (C)   The following restrictions shall apply to all permitted sign users:
      (1)   No sign shall be of a nature or placed in a position that it will
cause danger to traffic on a street;
      (2)   In districts requiring a front yard setback, no sign other than
official traffic signs shall be erected within the lines of any street;
      (3)   Except by conditional use permit which may be issued by the City
Council, illuminated signs shall be permitted in the Commercial and Industrial
Districts only. The city retains the right to regulate the intensity of lights
and require that the lights be turned out or down at certain times;
      (4)   No sign shall be of a flashing, intermittent type or moving
illumination type except an official traffic signal;
      (5)   In districts where there is no required building setback, no sign
shall project more than 48 inches over a sidewalk, and must be at least 7 feet
above the sidewalk, except signs shall be permitted on marquees if height of
letters do not exceed 24 inches;
      (6)   No signs shall violate the front, side or rear yard requirements of
the district in which it is placed; and
      (7)   Signs, which do not conform, to the regulations herein set forth
shall be declared a non-conforming use and as so shall be subject to the
provisions of §
153.130.
   (D)   Political campaign signs.
      (1)   Political campaign signs designating candidates seeking public
political office and other data pertinent thereof shall be subject to the
following restrictions:
         (a)   Signs shall be permitted only on private property provided the
candidate has obtained the property owner's permission. Signs are prohibited on
public property;
         (b)   At a corner of an intersection, signs are prohibited within a
triangle formed by measuring 30 feet along the curbs from the point where the
curbs intersect and drawing an imaginary line from curb to curb to define the
triangle;
         (c)   Where a sidewalk is installed parallel to a public street, 12
inches from the sidewalk edge farthest from the street shall be the minimum
setback from the street for sign placement;
         (d)   All signs are presumed to be the property and responsibility of
the candidate. Each candidate shall provide to the City Administrator the names
and means of contacting 2 persons that may receive notice of violation on the
candidate's behalf; and
         (e)   Any candidate who fails to remove a sign placed in violation of
this section within 48 hours after receiving notice from the city shall be
guiltily of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalty contained in §
153.151(A) below.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the immediate removal of
signs deemed by the city to be a safety hazard.
      (3)   Signs placed in violation of this section are also subject to
immediate removal by the city.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.112 TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND CAMPERS.
   (A)   No trucks in excess of 3/4-ton rated capacity and no tractor or semi-
trailer shall be parked, stored or repaired on public streets in any of the
Residential Districts, except for trucks making normal deliveries.
   (B)   No trucks, tractors, implements or merchandise may be stored or
displayed for sale within the right-of-way of any public street or
thoroughfare.
   (C)    No campers, trailers, boats or recreation vehicles shall be stored on
public rights-of-way.
   (D)   A camper, trailer, boat or recreation vehicle left unattended for 72
hours shall be considered stored on a public right-of-way.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.113 SATELLITE DISHES AND OTHER DISHES.
   (A)   Any satellite dishes and solar dishes hereafter erected shall conform
to the provisions of this section and any other ordinance or regulation of the
city.
   (B)   Satellite dishes and solar dishes shall not be located in front yards.
   (C)   No satellite dish or solar dish shall be located within 10 feet of any
rear lot or side lot line in any Residential District.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.114 HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS.
   Occupations may be carried on in dwellings located in Residential Districts
provided that the occupation meets the following criteria:
   (A)   No more than 1 person shall be employed other than the resident of the
dwelling;
   (B)   The occupation shall be conducted wholly within the dwelling or an
accessory building;
   (C)   Floor area devoted to the occupation shall not exceed 25% of the total
ground area occupied by buildings on the lot;
   (D)   The occupation shall not be objectionable to adjacent residences due
to noise, hours of operation, traffic, electrical interference and the like;
and
   (E)   There shall be no display or evidence apparent from the exterior of
the lot that the premises are being used for any purpose other than that of a
dwelling.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.115 ADULT USES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The nature of adult uses is so that they are recognized as having
adverse secondary effects, particularly when they are accessible to minors and
located near residential property or related residential uses such as schools,
day care centers, libraries or parks.
      (2)   Furthermore, the concentration of adult uses has an adverse effect
upon the use and enjoyment of adjacent areas. The nature of adult uses requires
that they not be allowed within certain zoning districts, or within minimum
distances from each other or residential areas.
      (3)   Special regulation of adult uses is necessary to ensure that the
adverse secondary effects would not contribute or enhance criminal activity in
the area of the uses nor will it contribute to the blighting or downgrading of
the surrounding property and lessening of its value.
   (B)   General provisions. Adult uses shall be subject to the following
general provisions:
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene are not permitted and are
prohibited. In no instance shall the application or interpretation of this
chapter be construed to allow an activity otherwise prohibited by law;
      (2)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building, which is also utilized for residential purposes; and
      (3)   An adult use, which does not qualify as an adult use-accessory,
shall be classified as an adult use-principal.
   (C)   Adult use-principal.
      (1)   Adult use-principal shall be a permitted conditional use in the M-
1 Industrial District subject to the locational criteria outlined below.
      (2)   Adult use-principal shall be located at least 300 feet, as measured
in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the building
upon which the adult use-principal is located to the property line of:
         (a)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically
listed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use-principal; and
         (g)   Any church or church related organization.
      (3)   Adult use-principal shall be located at 100 feet, as measured in a
straight line from the closes point of the property line of the building upon
which the adult use-principal is located to the closest point of the property
line of the residences that are located in the M-1 Industrial District.
      (4)   No adult use-principal shall be located in the same building or
upon the same property as another adult use-principal.
      (5)   Adult use-principal shall adhere to the following signing
regulations in addition to the sign regulations of §
153.111 above:
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name of the business; and
         (b)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for
the district in which they are located.
      (6)   Adult use-principal shall be limited to 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m.
for its hours of operation.
      (7)   A differing time schedule may be approved by the City Council, if
it can be satisfactorily demonstrated by the operator to the City Council that
all the following will apply:
         (a)   Will not adversely impact or affect uses or activities within
300 feet; and
         (b)   Will not result in increased policing and related service calls;
and
         (c)   Is critical to the operation of the business.
   (D)   Adult use-accessory. Adult use-accessory, shall be permitted in the M-
1 Industrial District as a conditional use, provided the use conforms with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Adult use-accessory shall:
         (a)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located;
         (b)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and
         (c)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (2)   Adult use-accessory shall be located at least 300 feet, as measured
in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the building
upon which the adult use-accessory is located to the property line of:
         (a)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically
listed as a permitted or conditional use;
         (b)   A licensed day care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another adult use-principal; or
         (g)   Any church or church related organization.
      (3)   Adult use-accessory shall be located at least 100 feet, as measured
in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the building
upon which the adult use-accessory is located to the closest point of the
property line of the residences that are located in the M-1 Industrial
District;
      (4)   Adult use-accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access to
minors by the physical separation of the following items from areas of general
public access:
         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation;
         (b)   Magazines publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with wrappers
or other means to prevent display of any material other than publication title;
and
         (c)   Other use. Adult use-accessory not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   Any violation of this section shall be a basis for the suspension
or revocation of the permit for the property or building in or on which the
adult use is located.
      (3)   In the event the City Council proposes to revoke or suspend a
permit, the property owner shall be notified in writing of the basis for the
proposed suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The City Council shall hold a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether to revoke or suspend the permit, which hearing shall be
within 30 days of the date of the notice.
      (5)   The City Council shall determine whether to revoke or suspend the
permit within 30 days after the close of the hearing or within 60 days of the
date of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall notify the property owner of
its decision within that period.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.116 DECKS AND RAMPS FOR HANDICAP ACCESS IN THE R-1, R-2 AND R-
3 DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to decks and ramps for handicap access
in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts:
   (A)   Uncovered ramps constructed for the purpose of providing handicap
access, provided that the ramp has a railing no higher than 36 inches and does
not extend nearer than 5 feet to the front lot line, shall not be considered as
encroachments in required front yards;
   (B)   Uncovered ramps constructed for the purpose of providing handicap
access, which do not extend nearer than 3 feet to the side lot line shall not
be considered encroachments in required side yards;
   (C)    Attached decks not more than 2 feet above grade (exclusive of any
railing), or uncovered ramps constructed for the purpose of providing handicap
access, provided that the deck or the ramp shall be set back at least 10 feet
from the rear lot line, shall not be considered encroachments in required rear
yards;
   (D)   Attached uncovered decks higher than 2 feet above grade constructed
for the purpose of providing handicap access that are set back at least 15 feet
from the rear lot line shall not be considered encroachments in required rear
yards;
   (E)   Decks and ramps shall be included in the calculations for lot
coverage; and
   (F)   All of the preceding permitted setback encroachments shall not be
construed to allow encroachment into an easement of record.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.117 LIMITED PERMIT.
   (A)   The following specified items may obtain a limited permit and may
begin construction after the Zoning Administrator has signed the building
permit.
   (B)   The limited permit will than be presented to the Zoning Board and the
City Council at the next meeting.
   (C)   If construction of this limited permit begins before approval by the
Zoning Administrator a $50 fee will apply:
      (1)   Limited permit fee: $15; and
      (2)   Limited permits shall include only the following construction:
         (a)   Shingling of roof;
         (b)   Siding of home or accessory building;
         (c)   Installation of windows; and
         (d)   Removal of detached garage, shed or barn.
   (D)   All other construction must obtain a regular building permit with
Zoning Board and City Council approval before any construction may begin.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see §
36.01
§ 153.118 TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Building permits once the Zoning Board and the City Council
approve them are good for 180 days after start date (start date is stated on
permit.)
      (2)   Applicant may request an extension of the permit with no changes.
Permit is void if an extension is not granted.
   (B)   Property in a residential zoning district shall, seed, sod or
otherwise plant with a ground cover within 240 days after any disturbance to
the property caused by construction, grading or other activity, or at any time
prior to the 240 days if the property is causing erosion or drainage problems
on the same or nearby properties, including public street.
   (C)   A structure, or a portion of a structure, located in a residential
zoning district, must complete building permit construction within 180 days
after the date that the city building permit is issued.
   (D)   The construction materials, including piles of dirt, sand and sod,
left in the open on the property must be removed within 60 days after
construction has been completed.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001; Am. Ord. 1409.14, passed 5-17-
2005)
§ 153.119 DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   No owner or caretaker of any residential building shall
knowingly allow more than 2 dogs over the age of 6 months to be kept, harbored
or maintained within any residential building or any residential lot or parcel
of property in the city without a permit as provided in §§
153.131 and
153.132 below.
      (2)   The number of dogs permitted may be increased by obtaining a
conditional use permit issued by the Planning Commission. The permit shall
specify any restrictions, limitations, conditions or prohibitions, unsanitary
conditions, unreasonable noise or odors or annoyance, or to protect the public
health or safety.
   (B)   (1)   Permits shall specify any restrictions, limitations, conditions
or prohibitions, unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or odors, or
annoyance, or to protect the public health or safety.
      (2)   A like permit may be modified from time to time or revoked by the
Commission for failure to conform to restrictions, limitations, conditions or
prohibitions, modifications or revocations shall be effective from and after 30
days following the mailing of written notice thereof by certified mail to the
person or persons keeping or maintaining the dogs.
   (C)   Any person owning or harboring a dog for 3 consecutive days shall for
the purpose of this section be deemed the owner thereof.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.120 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect and promote health,
safety, general welfare, and order within the city, and the following:
      (1)   To set forth standards for solar energy systems for the city;
      (2)   To correct and prevent conditions that adversely affect the safety,
general welfare, and health of nearby property owners; and
      (3)   To preserve the value of land and structures throughout the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure, or a part of a device or structure,
for which the primary purpose is to capture sunlight and transform it into
thermal, mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
2       SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A community solar energy
system that generates electricity by means of a ground-mounted or building-
integrated solar system and that is supplied to multiple community members or
businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the solar energy
system under the provisions of M.S. § 216B.1641 or successor statute.
   (C)   Application and regulations; application for large or small solar
energy systems. Any person desiring to construct or erect a solar energy system
shall make a written application to the Zoning Administrator. Application for
such permit shall be made upon a form furnished by the city and shall not be
complete unless it contains the following:
      (1)   A site plan of existing applicable conditions showing the
following:
         (a)   Existing property lines;
         (b)   Existing public and private roads and any easements;
         (c)   Location and size of any abandoned wells and sewage treatment
systems;
         (d)   Existing buildings and any impervious surface; and
         (e)   Existing vegetation;
      (2)   Site plan of proposed conditions:
         (a)   Planned location and spacing of solar panels;
         (b)   Planned location of access roads;
         (c)   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the solar energy system to the building, substation, or other
electric load; and
         (d)   Planned new electrical equipment other than at the existing
building or substation that is the connection point for the solar energy
system;
      (3)   Specifications and proposed installation methods for all planned
major equipment including solar panels, mounting systems, and foundations for
poles or racks;
      (4)   The planned number of panels to be installed;
      (5)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a building
or substation;
      (6)   A copy of the submitted interconnection application with the local
electric utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection
application is not necessary;
      (7)   A decommissioning plan is required to ensure that facilities are
properly removed after their
useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event they are
not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan shall include who will be
responsible for removal of all structures and foundations, restoration of soil
and vegetation, and a plan describing the financial resources that will be
available to fully decommission the site;
      (8)   Height. Solar energy systems are subject to the following height
requirements:
         (a)   Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height in any zoning district; and
         (b)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15
feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt in residential zones and may be
allowed up to 20 feet in other zones.
      (9)   Location within lot. Solar energy systems must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district.
      (10)   Accessory building limit. Solar energy systems, either roof or
ground- mounted, do not count as an accessory building for the purpose of
limits on accessory buildings.
   (D)   General regulations.
      (1)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
      (2)   Compliance with State Electric Code. All solar energy systems shall
comply with the State Electric Code.
      (3)   Utility notification. No solar energy system shall be installed
until evidence has been given to the Zoning Administrator that the owner has
notified the utility company of the customer's intent to install an
interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems are exempt from this
requirement.
      (4)   Solar panel glare. All solar energy system facilities shall be
designed and located in order to prevent reflective glare toward any inhabited
buildings on adjacent properties, as well as adjacent street rights-of-way.
Steps to control glare nuisance may include selective placement of the system,
screening on the side of the solar array facing the reflectors, reducing use of
the reflector system, or other remedies that limit glare.
      (5)   Safety measures. A clearly visible warning sign concerning voltage
must be placed at the site. All mechanical equipment, including any structure
for batteries or storage cells, shall be completely enclosed by a minimum 6
foot high fence with a self-locking gate. The fence must be 3 feet off the
property line per this chapter, unless written permission is obtained form the
abutting property owner to have the fence on the property line.
      (6)   The conversion of existing wooded areas for the placement of
systems is prohibited.
      (7)   City boulevard tree removal is prohibited without the City Council
approval, and not more than 2 boulevard trees will be considered for removal.
      (8)   The Zoning Board may require a buffer between solar energy systems
and adjoining properties.
      (9)   The Zoning Board may require a greater setback between adjoining
properties if conditions warrant.
      (10)   Solar gardens will not be classified as part of the rural taxing
district.
   (E)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems.
      (1)   A limited building permit is required for roof-mounted systems.
      (2)   Roof-mounted systems shall not exceed the maximum allowed height in
any zoning district and shall not extend greater than 4 feet above the existing
structure's roof height in all districts.
      (3)   The collector and racking for roof-mounted systems that have a
greater pitch than the roof surface shall be set back from all roof edges a
minimum of 2 feet.
      (4)   Exterior piping for roof-mounted solar hot water systems may extend
beyond the perimeter of the structure on the side and rear yards.
      (5)   Roof-mounted systems, excluding building-integrated systems, shall
not cover more than 80% of the south-facing or flat roof upon which the
collectors are mounted.
   (F)   Wall-mounted solar energy systems.
      (1)   A limited building permit is required for all wall-mounted systems.
      (2)   Wall-mounted systems shall cover no more than 25% of any exterior
wall facing the front yard in the residential district.
(Ord. passed 8-24-2015)
NON-CONFORMING USES AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.130 ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The unlawful use of a building existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter may be continued, although the use does not conform to the
provisions hereof.
      (2)   A non-conforming use of a building may be changed to another non-
conforming use of the same or more restricted classification.
      (3)   The foregoing provisions shall also apply to non-conforming uses in
districts hereafter changed.
      (4)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been changed to a
more restricted use or to a conforming use, the use shall not thereafter be
changed to a less restrictive use.
   (B)   Discontinuance.
      (1)   In the event that a non-conforming use of any building or premises
is discontinued or its normal operation stopped for a period of 1 year, the use
of the same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
      (2)   Any nonconformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land
or premises existing at the time of the adoption of an additional control under
this chapter, may be continued, including through repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including expansion, unless:
         (a)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
more than 1 year; or
         (b)   Any non-conforming used is destroyed by fire or other peril to
the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building permit has
been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this case,
the city may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in order to
mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.
      (3)   Any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a
conforming use or occupancy.
      (4)   The city may permit an expansion or impose upon nonconformities
reasonable regulations to prevent and abate nuisances and to protect the public
health, welfare or safety.
      (5)   This does not prohibit the city from enforcing an ordinance that
applies to adults-only bookstores, adults-only theaters or similar adults-only
businesses, as defined by ordinance.
   (C)   Junk yards or salvage yards.
      (1)   A junk yard or salvage yard may continue as a non-conforming use in
an Industrial District if it is completely enclosed within a building, fence,
living screen planting or other device of a height so as to screen completely
enclosed within a building, fence, living screen planting or other device of a
height so as to screen completely the operations of the junk yard.
      (2)   The City Planning Commission and the City Council shall approve
plans of a building or device before it is erected or put into place.
   (D)   Signs.
      (1)   Signs pertaining to or advertising products sold on the premises of
a nonconforming building or use may be continued only when the nonconforming
use is permitted to continue.
      (2)   Signs must not be expanded in number, area, height or illumination.
      (3)   New signs not to exceed 35 square feet in aggregate area may be
erected only after all other signs existing at the time of the adoption of this
chapter have been removed.
      (4)   New signs in conformity with the above may have illumination on 1
face of the sign, but flashing, intermittent or moving illumination is not
permitted.
   (E)   Residential alterations.
      (1)   Other improvements or alternations may be allowed to the extent
that the current livability of the home is enhanced, but not to the extent that
the useful life expectancy of the property would be increased.
      (2)   Examples of permitted improvements are: detached garages, open deck
or patio, accessory building.
      (3)   Any small enclosures attached to the home such as around an
entrance door is not to exceed 75 square feet.
      (4)   All setbacks must comply with those of the Residential District.
      (5)   Alterations may be made to a residential building containing non-
conforming residential units when they will improve the habitability of the
units, provided however, that they do not increase the number of dwelling units
in the building.
   (F)   Normal maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used for a non-conforming use will be permitted when it includes
necessary non-structural repairs and incidental alterations, which do not
extend or intensify the non-conforming building or use.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.131 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application. Conditional use permits may be issued for any of the
following:
      (1)   Any of the uses or purposes for which permits are required or
permitted by the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Public utility or public service uses or public building or
community buildings in any district when found to be necessary for the public
health, safety, convenience or welfare;
      (3)   Commercial excavating and storage of natural materials used for
building or construction purposes, in any district;
      (4)   To classify as a conforming use any non-conforming institutional
use existing in any district at the time of the establishment of a district;
and/or
      (5)   To permit the location of any of the following uses in a district
from which they are excluded by the provisions of this chapter: airport,
library, community center, church, hospital, any institution of an educational,
philanthropic or charitable nature, cemetery or mausoleum.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for the issuance of conditional use permit shall be
made to the City Planning Commission.
      (2)   Any proceedings to classify certain uses as conforming uses as
provided in this section may be initiated either by application or by the City
Council or by the City Planning Commission.
      (3)   A fee as determined by the City Council shall accompany the
application for the issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (4)   The City Planning Commission may hold hearings on the proposal to
issue a conditional use permit as it may consider necessary, but at least 1
public hearing shall be held on any application for a use permit for the
establishment of any use listed in division (A)(5) above.
      (5)   Following the hearing, the City Planning Commission shall make a
report upon the proposal to the Council and shall recommend to the Council
whatever action it deems advisable.
      (6)   The City Planning Commission shall not recommend the granting of a
permit unless it finds that the establishment, maintenance or conducting of the
use for which a use permit is sought will not under the circumstances of the
particular case be detrimental to the health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience or welfare of the persons residing or working in the neighborhood
of a use, or to the public welfare, or injurious to property or improvements in
the neighborhood.
      (7)   The City Planning Commission may designate conditions and require
guarantees in the granting of use permits in the same manner provided in §§
153.145 through
153.148, for the granting of adjustments by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
      (8)   Upon receipt of the report by the City Planning Commission, the
City Council may hold whatever public hearings it deems advisable and shall
make a decision upon the proposal to grant a conditional use permit.
      (9)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit
shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of a permit and
of any conditions designated in the connection therewith.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.132 PUBLICATION, HEARING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Publication. At least 10 days notice of hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the city.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   All property owners of record within 350 feet of the affected
property
      (2)   Where the conditional use is proposed shall be notified by
depositing a written notice in the U.S. mail as to time and place of the public
hearing.
   (C)   Omission in notification.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for proper
publication of notices, and notification to adjacent property owners.
      (2)   However, an error in the published notice of public hearing or
failure to notify a specific property owner of the application for a
conditional use permit shall not be considered cause to declare the public
hearing invalid.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receipt in proper form of the application and
other requested material the Mapleton Zoning Commission shall hold at least 1
public hearing in a location to be prescribed by the Zoning Commission.
   (E)   Fee. A fee as determined by the City Council shall accompany the
application for the issuance of a conditional use permit.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT AND OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 153.145 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Adjustment (the Board) is hereby established and
vested with administrative authority as is hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of not less than 5 members of the City
Planning Commission and the Zoning Administrator as an ex officio member
without the right to vote on matters before the Board.
   (C)   The Mayor, subject to approval by the City Council, shall appoint the
Board members.
   (D)   Its members shall be appointed for terms coinciding with terms of the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall act as Secretary of the
Board.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.146 POWERS.
   The Board, subject to the approval and confirmation of the City Council, in
each case as hereinafter provided shall have the power to grant adjustments in
and exceptions to any of the provisions of this chapter to the extent of the
following and no further:
   (A)   To vary or modify the strict application of any of the regulations or
provisions contained in this chapter in cases in which there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships resulting from strict application;
   (B)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line thereof
divides a lot in 1 ownership at the time of the passage of this chapter, but
extension of any district shall not exceed 100 feet;
    (C)    The Board shall not recommend, and the Council shall not grant, any
application unless they find that the applicant has presented a statement and
evidence, in a form as the Board may require, sufficient to show the following
facts:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
land, building or use referred to in the application;
      (2)   That the granting of the application is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of substantial property rights; and
      (3)   That the granting of the application will not materially adversely
affect the health or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood
of the property of the applicant, and will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.147 APPEALS.
   Any person, firm or corporation objecting to the ruling of any official on
the administration of the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the Board.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.148 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for any adjustment permissible under the provisions of
this section shall be made to the Zoning Administrator, as created in §
153.150(A) in the form of a written application for a building permit or for a
permit to use the property or premises as set forth in the application.
   (B)   An application for an adjustment shall be accompanied by payment of a
fee, in addition to the regular building permit fee, if any. The fee for the
adjustment shall be determined by the City Council.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application, the Zoning Administrator shall set a
time and place for a public hearing before the Board on the application.
   (D)   At least 10 days before the date of hearing, a notice of the hearing
shall be published once in the official newspaper.
   (E)   The Board shall make its recommendation upon the application to the
City Council within 15 days of the application.
   (F)   In recommending any adjustment or variance under the provisions of
this section, the Board shall designate the conditions as will, in its opinion,
secure substantially the objectives of the regulation or provision to which the
adjustment or variance is granted, with respect to light, air and the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
   (G)   No permit shall be issued under the provisions of this section unless
and until a recommendation of the Board is approved and confirmed by the City
Council.
   (H)   In reporting its recommendation to the City Council, the Board shall
report all facts within its possession regarding the application for adjustment
and its findings with respect to the application.
   (I)   The Board shall also specifically and fully set forth any adjustment
or variance granted and any conditions designated.
   (J)   Upon receipt of the report, the City Council either shall by
resolution approves and confirms the decisions (with or without changes) or
shall refuse to approve and confirm the decision.
   (K)   In all cases in which adjustments or variances are granted under the
provisions of this section, the Board and the City Council shall require
evidence and guarantees, as they may deem necessary to ensure compliance with
the conditions designated in connection therewith.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.149 AMENDMENT.
   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and convenience
and the general welfare require an amendment. This chapter shall be amended by
the procedure specified as follows.
   (A)   An amendment may be initiated by the City Council or the City Planning
Commission, or by the verified petition of not less than 50% of the property
owners affected by the proposed amendment and 50% of those property owners
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the proposed change.
   (B)   (1)   Before any amendment is adopted, the City Planning Commission
shall hold at least 1 public hearing thereon after a notice of the hearing has
been published in the official newspaper at least 10 days before the hearing.
      (2)   Following the hearing, the City Planning Commission shall make a
report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment and shall
file a copy with the City Administrator within 30 days after the hearing.
      (3)   Failure of the Planning Commission to so report shall be deemed to
be approval of the proposed amendment.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the filing of a report or upon the expiration of 30 days,
the City Council may hold a public hearings upon the amendment, as it deems
advisable.
      (2)   After the conclusion of the hearings, if any, the City Council may
adopt the amendment of any part thereof in a form, as it deems advisable.
      (3)   The amendment shall be effective only if at least 4/5 of all the
members of the Council concur on its passage.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.150 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Office of the Zoning Administrator is hereby established,
for which the City Council may appoint an employee or employees of the city, as
it may deem proper.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to enforce this
chapter through the proper legal channels.
   (B)   Hereafter, no person shall erect, alter, wreck or move any building or
part thereof without first securing a building permit therefore.
   (C)   (1)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on blank forms to be furnished by the city.
      (2)   Each application for a permit to construct or alter a building
shall be accompanied by a plan drawn to scale showing the dimensions of the lot
to be built upon and the size and location of the building and accessory
buildings to be erected.
      (3)   Applications for any kind of building permit shall contain other
information as may be deemed necessary for the proper enforcement of this
chapter or any other.
      (4)   The fee for a building permit shall be determined by the City
Council.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue the building permit only after
determination that the building plans, together with the application, comply
with the terms of this chapter.
      (6)   Building permits expire 1 year after date of issue.
      (7)   All exterior construction and landscaping must be completed within
1 year after date of issue.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.151 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (C)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, in addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action
or proceedings in the name of the city.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator hereby shall have the powers of a police
officer to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or
abate violations to prevent the occupancy of the building, structure of land,
or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the
premises.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION OF RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS AND SPAS
§ 153.165 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Residential swimming pools shall be defined as any constructed pool,
permanent or portable, which is intended for non-commercial use as a swimming
pool by owner families and their guests and which is over 24 inches in depth
and has a surface area exceeding 200 square feet.
   (B)   (1)   SPA shall be defined as a unit primarily designed for
therapeutic use, which is not drained, cleaned or refilled for each individual.
      (2)   It may include, but not be limited to, hydro jet circulation, hot
water, cold-water mineral baths, air induction bubbles or any combination
thereof.
      (3)   Industry terminology for a spa includes, but is not limited to,
therapeutic pool, hydrotherapy pool, whirlpool, hot spa and the like.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.166 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Utility lines. Pools and spas shall not be located beneath utility
lines or over underground utility lines of any type.
   (B)   Setback. No person shall build, situate or install a pool or spa
within 10 feet of any side or rear lot line, nor within 6 feet of any principal
structure nor within any required front yard.
   (C)   Portable fence. While being constructed, the pool or spa must be
fenced with a portable fence, such as snow fence, of not less than 4 feet in
height.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001)
§ 153.167 FENCING.
   (A)   Minimum height. All outdoor pools hereafter constructed shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or wall of the non-climbing type so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, afford no external handholds or footholds, and a
minimum of 4 feet in height.
   (B)   Self-closing. All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry
into the pool area shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices. The opening between the bottom of the fence and the ground or other
surface shall not be more than 3 inches.
   (C)    Latchable cover. All outdoor spas shall have either a fence as
described in divisions (A) and (B) above, or a latchable cover. The cover shall
be constructed of a material impenetrable by toddlers.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.168 PERMITS.
   No person shall construct, alter or renovate a pool or spa without a
building permit.
(Ord passed 4- -1995; Am. Ord. passed 8- -2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: FLOODPLAINS
Section
   
154.01   Permit requirements
   
154.02   Permit application
   
154.03   Duties of the City Clerk
   
154.04   Review of permit application
   
154.05   Review of subdivision proposals
   
154.06   Water supply system
   
154.07   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
154.08   Annexations and extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
154.09   Definitions
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restriction
   
154.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person may erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move,
or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate permit
for each building or structure from the designated responsible person.
   (B)   No man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including
but not limited to buildings or other structures, fences, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, may be commenced
until a separate permit has been obtained from the designated responsible
person for each change.
   (C)   No manufactured home may be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each manufactured home
from the designated responsible person.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.02 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant must first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the designated responsible person with the designated fee established by the
City Council annually, before a permit will be issued.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.03 DUTIES OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The City Clerk, hereinafter referred to as the responsible person, is
appointed as the person responsible for receiving applications and examining
the plans and specifications for the proposed construction or development.
   (B)   After reviewing the application, the responsible person may require
any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   The responsible person must review proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or State law, including § 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (D)   The responsible person must review and maintain all permit
applications to ensure that any development activities are consistent with
criteria set forth in § 60.3 of the National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.04 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The responsible person must review all permit applications to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction and
substantial improvements (including the placement of manufactured homes) must
be:
   (A)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
   (D)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.05 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   The responsible person must review subdivision proposals and other proposed
new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe
from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is
in a flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.06 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   The responsible person must require within flood prone areas, new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.07 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The responsible person must require within flood prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.08 ANNEXATIONS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The city may not approve any development located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA) outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat is in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   A floodplain ordinance legally adopted by the city that meets the
minimum federal (44 CFR 60.3), state (Minnesota Regulation Parts 6120.5000
through 6120.6200), and local requirements for development within a Special
Flood Hazard Area.
   (B)   The SFHA's of those parts of unincorporated Blue Earth County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed
into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) panel 2752310200D, dated March 5, 1990 and prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.09 DEFINITIONS.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to real estate, including but not limited
to construction or reconstruction of buildings, installing manufactured homes
or travel trailers, installing utilities, construction of roads or bridges,
erection of levees, walls, or fences, drilling, mining, filling, dredging, and
storage of materials.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31,1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, new construction means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individuals, corporation, partnership, association, or
any other entity, including state and local governments and agencies.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been
completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, Al-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, or Vl-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations,
the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above ground. The
term includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers on site for more than
180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if
the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed. The term does not, however, include either (1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions or (2) any alteration of a historic structure, provided
that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as
a historic structure.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTION.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restriction.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions will prevail.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.11 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that land uses permitted within the city will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $200. A separate offense will be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 99, passed 7-23-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
   
II.   ZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
1984-  - -    Cable communications franchise; franchisee: U.S. Cable (1985 Code, Ch. X)
06
1001-  3-12-  Keeps in effect the agreement with U.S. Cable
09     1999
XI     3-15-  Grants a franchise to Northern States Power Company, to construct, operate and
       2005   repair an electric distribution system
155.01 3-16-  Grants franchise to Crystal Communications, d.b.a. Hickorytech
       2009
1984-  11-3-  Extends U.S. Cable’s cable television franchise for a period of 7 years until
06     2009   May 20, 2016
             
 
TABLE II: ZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Extends corporate limits to include certain land owned by
2200     10-30-1997  Prarie Gold Seeds, LLC and Donald R. Jaeger and Jeanne
                     Jaeger
2200     3-17-1998   Amends Ord. 2200, passed 10-30-1997; pertaining to the
                     annexation of land
304.01   2-1-2000    Amends the Storm Sewer District to include certain lands
153.121  11-24-2020  Extends the corporate limits to include certain lands
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 1985 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                    Code Section
13.37(b)                     90.035
14.57–14.70                114.36;
                             114.99
35.71                        95.07
65B.48 subdivision 5         70.12
88.171 subdivision 9         93.03
103G.291                     51.10
144.382 subdivision 4        51.10
145A.05                      130.03
                             115.01;
151.72                       115.02;
                             115.03
151.72 subdivision 3(c)      115.01
151.72 subdivision 5         115.01
151.72 subdivision 5(a)      115.01
152.02 Sched. I–V          96.04
157.16                       114.03
157.16 subdivision 3b        114.03
168B.01–168B.101           34.01
168B.011                     34.01
168B.011 subdivision 3       92.25
169                          70.12
169.01                       70.01
169.041                      71.03
169.045                      70.12
169.045 subdivision 7        70.12
169.522                      70.12
169.70                       70.12
216B.02 subdivision 4        90.002
216B.02 subdivision 6        90.002
216B.1641                    153.120
216B.34                      90.036
216D.01–216D.09            90.015,
                             90.038
238                          90.002
243.166                      130.04
243.167                      130.04
244.052                      130.04
Ch. 253B                     130.04
Ch. 278                      115.07
301B.01                      90.002
329                          112.03
                             114.01;
                             114.02;
340A                         114.20;
                             114.23;
                             114.36;
                             114.99
340A.14 subdivision 6        114.22
340A.101                     114.03;
                             114.22
340A.101 subdivision 10      115.02,
                             115.07
340A.401 subdivision 1       114.22
340A.401 subdivision 1(4)    114.55
340A.404 subdivision 4a      114.22
340A.404 subdivision 4b      114.22
340A.404 subdivision 5       114.22
340A.408 subdivision 2b      114.22
340A.408 subdivision 3       114.22
340A.408 subdivision 5       114.23
340A.409                     114.25;
                             114.54
340A.413                     114.55
340A.413 subdivision 3       114.20
340A.414                     114.35
340A.503 subdivision 1(a)(1) 130.03
340A.503 subdivision 6       115.13
340A.504                     114.33
340A.504 subdivision 3c      114.22
340A.509                     114.02
340A.801                     114.25
346.39 subdivision 1–12    95.21
347.09                       95.03
347.14                       95.07
347.18                       95.03
347.51                       95.29
347.54                       95.29
412.151                      51.10
429                          90.062,
                             150.01
429.021                      90.057;
                             150.05
429.021 subdivision 1        90.056
429.031 subdivision 3        150.05
429.061                      92.29;
                             92.07;
429.101                      92.29;
                             92.47;
                             96.11
444                          90.058
444.17 to 444.21             35.01
444.21                       35.01
459.14 subdivision 7         150.05
462                          152.001
462.354 subdivision 1        33.01
462.357 subdivision 3        33.05
462.3593                     153.009
462.3593 subdivision 9       153.009
463                          96.11
                             92.01;
463.15–63.26               92.03;
                             150.05
466.02                       96.02
471.6985                     114.53
609.342                      130.04
609.343                      130.04
609.344                      130.04
609.345                      130.04
609.352                      130.04
609.365                      130.04
617.23                       130.04
617.246                      130.04
617.247                      130.04
617.293                      130.04
624.20–24.25               93.15
626.862                      10.20
                             
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code 2007 Code
1985 Code 2007 Code
201.01    30.01
201.02    30.02
201.03    30.03
201.04    30.04
201.05    30.05
201.06    30.06
201.07    30.07
201.08    30.08
202.01    31.01
202.02    31.02
202.03    31.03
202.04    31.04
202.05    31.05
203.01    32.01
203.02    32.02
203.03    32.03
203.04    32.04
203.05    32.05
203.06    32.06
203.07    32.07
203.08    32.08
203.09    32.09
203.10    32.10
203.11    32.11
203.13    32.12
204.01    33.01
204.02    33.02
204.03    33.03
204.04    33.04
204.05    33.05
204.06    33.06
206.01    34.01
206.02    34.02
302.01    92.01
302.03    92.40
302.04    92.03
302.05    92.04
302.06    92.05
302.09    90.080
302.10    90.081
302.11    90.082
302.12    90.083
302.13    90.084
302.14    90.085
302.15    90.086
303.01    90.055
303.02    90.056
303.03    90.057
303.04    90.058
303.05    90.059
303.06    90.060
303.07    90.061
303.08    90.062
303.09    90.063
303.10    90.064
303.11    90.065
303.12    90.066
303.13    90.067
303.14    90.068
303.15    90.069
501.01    110.01
501.02    110.02
501.03    110.03
501.04    110.04
501.05    110.05
501.06    110.06
501.07    110.07
502.01    50.01
502.02    50.02
502.03    50.03
502.04    50.04
502.05    50.05
502.06    50.06
502.07    50.07
502.08    50.08
701.01    70.01
701.02    70.02
701.03    70.03
701.04    70.04
701.05    70.05
701.06    70.06
701.07    71.01
701.07(1) Ch. 73, Sch. II
701.08    71.02
701.10    70.07
701.11    70.08
701.12    70.09
701.13    70.10
802.01    130.01
901.01    91.01
901.02    91.02
Ch. X     TSO I
1201.01   151.01
1201.02   151.02
1201.03   151.03
1301.01   152.001
1301.02   152.002
1301.03   152.003
1301.04   152.004
1301.05   152.005
1302.01   152.020
1302.02   152.021
1302.03   152.022
1302.04   152.023
1302.05   152.024
1302.06   152.025
1302.07   152.026
1302.08   152.027
1302.09   152.028
1302.10   152.029
1302.11   152.030
1302.12   152.031
1303.01   152.045
1303.02   152.046
1303.03   152.047
1303.04   152.048
1303.05   152.049
1304.01   152.060
1304.02   152.061
1304.03   152.062
1304.04   152.063
1304.05   152.064
1305.01   152.075
1305.02   152.076
1306.01   152.077
1306.02   152.078
1307.01   152.079
1307.02   152.080
1308.01   152.081
1308.02   152.082
1308.03   152.083
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
40-6-98  6-16-1998   111.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
                        95.01;
                        95.03-
–         - -         95.08;
                        95.20-
                        95.27
1984-06     - -         TSO I
304.01      7-22-1986   35.01
303.05      10-21-1988  90.059
303.05      9-18-1989   90.059
303.06      9-18-1989   90.060
601.03      1-16-1990   114.03
1900        6-22-1992   TSO I
                        153.001–
                        153.008;
                        153.020-
                        153.023;
                        153.035-
                        153.038;
                        153.050-
                        153.052;
                        153.065-
                        153.067;
–         4- -1995    153.080-
                        153.082;
                        153.095-
                        153.098;
                        153.105-
                        153.119;
                        153.130-
                        153.132;
                        153.145-
                        153.151;
                        153.165-
                        153.168
–         5-20-1997   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.001
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.002
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.003
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.004
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.005
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.006
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.007
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.008
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.009
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.010
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.011
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.012
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.013
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.014
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.015
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.016
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.030
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.031
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.032
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.033
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.034
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.035
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.036
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.037
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.038
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.039
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.040
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.041
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.042
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.043
–, § 301.9-2-1997    90.044
2200        10-30-1997  TSO II
-           1-6-1998    70.11;
                        Ch. 72, Sch. III
2200        3-17-1998   TSO II
-           6-16-1998   150.01–
                        150.14
1001-09     3-12-1999   TSO I
-           4-15-1999   Ch. 72, Sch. II
-           6-1-1999    70.05
304.01      2-1-2000    TSO II
803.01      2-15-2000   93.01–
                        93.03
701.15      9-5-2000    90.017
                        153.001–
                        153.008;
                        153.020-
                        153.023;
                        153.035-
                        153.038;
                        153.050-
                        153.052;
                        153.065-
                        153.067;
–         8- -2001    153.080-
                        153.082;
                        153.095-
                        153.098;
                        153.105-
                        153.119;
                        153.130-
                        153.132;
                        153.145-
                        153.151;
                        153.165-
                        153.168
–         5-20-2003   71.02
–         6-17-2003   152.046
804, § 1   7-15-2003   37.01
804, § 2   7-15-2003   37.02
804, § 3   7-15-2003   37.03
804, § 4   7-15-2003   37.04
804, § 5   7-15-2003   37.05
804, § 6   7-15-2003   37.06
804, § 7   7-15-2003   37.07
804, § 8   7-15-2003   37.08
–         5-18-2004   71.02
                        96.01–
2600        5-18-2004   96.16;
                        96.98
–         9-7-2004    92.28
1409.04     12-7-2004   153.108
1409.05     12-7-2004   153.109
XI          3-15-2005   TSO I
1409.14     5-17-2005   153.118
2600        7-19-2005   93.15–
                        93.17
                        92.02;
302.02      4-4-2006    92.06;
                        92.07
1800        7-11-2006   97.01–
                        97.05
                        51.01–
                        51.09;
                        51.20-
-           8-1-2006    51.23;
                        51.35-
                        51.42;
                        51.55;
                        51.56
155.01      3-16-2009   TSO I
51.39       5-5-2009    51.39,
                        51.41
1984-06     11-3-2009   TSO I
92.02       8-17-2010   92.02
71.03       12-7-2010   71.03
51          5-17-2011   51.39–
                        51.41
-           6-24-2011   51.06
98          11-1-2011   130.03
70.12       3-6-2012    70.12
92.02       2-19-2013   92.02
-           6-18-2013   92.40–
                        92.47
                        51.01–
                        51.09;
                        51.20–
-           11-5-2013   51.23;
                        51.35–
                        51.43;
                        51.55–
                        51.56
-           7-15-2014   95.08
-           10-7-2014   71.03
–         5-5-2015    Adopting Ordinance
35.02       7-7-2015    35.02
140         8-18-2015   130.04
–         8-24-2015   153.120
–         11-4-2015   71.03
                        95.03–
–         11-4-2015   95.08;
                        95.20–
                        95.27
–         11-4-2015   95.28;
                        95.29
153.009     8-2-2016    153.009
51.10       5-16-2017   51.10
30.09       9-10-2018   30.09
–         - -         37.01–
                        37.10
–         - -         51.35
–         - -         92.20–
                        92.28
–         - -         92.24;
                        92.25
                        154.01–
99          7-23-2019   154.11;
                        154.99
95.27       11-19-2019  95.30
153.121     11-24-2020  TSO II
–         12-21-2021  153.037
–         5-17-2022   71.03
115         12-20-2022  115.01–
                        115.13
                       
