MENAHGA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 12- -2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.98   Enforcement
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as
“§ 10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title,
chapter, and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The county or counties in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by this legislative body requiring publication shall
require a public hearing with published notification and then take effect from
and after due publication thereof, unless expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 10.14, passed 5-9-11)
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator for public inspection. The City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council has determined that there is a need for
alternative methods of enforcing the city code. While criminal fines and
penalties have been the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain
negative consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in
the criminal system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being
labeled as criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher
burden of proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate
for most administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard
city code violations as being important. Accordingly, the City Council finds
the use of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is
legitimate and a necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
city code violations.
   (B)   Alternative methods of enforcement. This administrative enforcement
procedure seeks to gain compliance with certain provisions of the city code and
serves as an alternate to any formal criminal or civil court action. The
administrative hearing process provided for in this section shall be in
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy available to the city for city
code violations, except that if a determination is made by the hearing officer
pursuant to the hearing process detailed in this section that a violation did
not occur, the city may not then proceed with criminal prosecution of the same
act or conduct.
   (C)   Authority to issue order to correct/compliance letters and
administrative citations. The following city employees and agents are
authorized to issue compliance letters and administrative citations for
violations of the city code:
      (1)   Licensed peace officers of the Police Department;
      (2)   Any other city official authorized by City Council by resolution to
issue compliance letters and administrative citations under this section.
   (D)   Order to correct/compliance letters; administrative citations. Upon
the reasonable belief that an administrative offense has occurred, the city
officials listed above may serve on the violator an order to correct the
violation (otherwise known as a compliance letter). If compliance is not
achieved within the time line prescribed in the order to correct letter, the
official is authorized to issue an administrative citation. An administrative
citation shall be presented in person or by first class mail to the person
responsible for the violation. Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing
the citation in the United States Mail, properly addressed to last known
address of the person to be served and postage prepaid. The citation shall
state the following: date, time and nature of the offense, citing the relevant
portion of the city code that was allegedly violated, the amount of the
scheduled civil fine and the manner for paying the fine, a statement that the
city code violation and the amount of the administrative penalty may be
contested to be heard before an independent hearing: officer by notifying the
City Administrator or designated representative in writing within ten days of
the date of the citation, and a statement that failure to pay the
administrative civil penalty may result in it being assessed against the
property as provided in M.S. Chapter 429. In no circumstances shall the city be
required to follow the administrative citation procedure.
   (E)   Exceptions to issuance of order to correct/compliance letter. For
violations of the following sections, the city shall not be required to issue a
compliance letter and may proceed directly to the issuance of an administrative
citation as provided in §§
10.98 and
10.99 listed above.
      (1)   Repeat offender. If the same owner commits a subsequent violation
within 12 months after a compliance letter has been issued for the same or
similar offense.
      (2)   License violations. This constitutes any violation of a city code
license requirement including not having a license.
      (3)   Noncriminal violations of:
         (a)   Public nuisances.
         (b)   Prohibited disposal of garbage.
         (c)   Off-road vehicle violations.
         (d)   Snowmobile violations.
         (e)   Animal complaints.
      (4)   Property Maintenance Code.
      (5)   Land Use Code.
   (F)   Reasonable extensions. Following service of the compliance letter, the
city shall attempt to work with the owner to resolve the violation, including
but not limited to responding to reasonable extensions for compliance.
   (G)   Payment of penalty and correction of violation. If the owner pays the
administrative civil penalty and corrects the city code violation, no further
action will be taken against the owner or the owner's real property for that
same violation. If payment is made but correction is not accomplished, a
subsequent administrative citation may be issued, criminal proceedings may be
initiated, or any other proceedings or remedies available to enforce correction
of the violation. If no payment is made, no correction of the violation is
made, and no request for hearing is made in accordance herein, the city may
assess the administrative civil penalty against the property owner pursuant to
M.S. Chapter 429, issue a subsequent administrative citation and commence a new
administrative process, initiate criminal proceedings, or initiate other
enforcement action authorized by law or a combination hereof.
   (H)   Request for hearing. An owner or occupant may contest the
administrative citation and the amount of the fine by requesting a hearing, in
writing, within ten days of the date of the citation, to the City Administrator
or designated representative.
   (I)   Administrative hearing procedure.
      (1)   Hearing officers. The City Council will periodically approve a list
of individuals from which the City Administrator will select a hearing officer
to hear and determine a matter for which the hearing is requested. The person
who has requested the hearing has the right to request, no later than 15 days
before the date of the hearing, that the assigned hearing officer be removed
from the case. One such request for each case will be granted by the City
Administrator. A subsequent request must be directed to the assigned hearing
officer who will decide whether the hearing officer can fairly and objectively
review the case. If such a finding is made, the hearing officer shall remove
himself or herself from the case and the City Administrator shall assign
another hearing officer. The hearing officer is not a judicial officer, but is
a public officer as defined by M.S. § 609.415. The hearing officer shall not be
a current employee of the city.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing must be served in person
or by first class mail to the person responsible for the violation no less than
20 days in advance of the scheduled hearing unless a shorter time is accepted
by both parties. Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the notice of
hearing in the United States Mail, properly addressed to last known address of
the person to be served and postage prepaid.
      (3)   Payment for cost of hearing. The cost of the hearing shall be borne
solely by the non-prevailing party. The city shall provide an estimate of the
cost of the hearing at the time of the request for hearing. The City Council
has the authority to reduce the non-prevailing party's costs where that party
can demonstrate indigence by clear and convincing evidence. Proof of indigence
can be demonstrated by the party's receipt of means tested governmental
benefits or a demonstrated lack of assets or current income. Such proof shall
be presented to the City Council for determination subsequent to the hearing.
However, the hearing officer at the time of the hearing shall make specific
findings as to whether or not the party is indigent with said findings
presented to the City Council. In all cases, where the party requesting the
hearing is unable to attend and fails to request a continuance of the hearing
at least 48 hours in advance of the scheduled hearing, all costs incurred by
the city attributable to the hearing shall be charged to the requesting party.
      (4)   Hearing procedures. At the hearing, the parties shall have the
opportunity to present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules
of evidence shall not apply. The hearing officer shall record the hearing and
receive testimony and exhibits and the full record of the hearing shall be
kept. The hearing officer shall receive and give weight to evidence, including
hearsay evidence probative value commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent
people in the conduct of their affairs.
      (5)   Authority of the hearing officer.
         (a)   The hearing officer shall determine whether a violation did or
did not occur. If the hearing officer determines that a violation did not
occur, then the citation shall be dismissed. If the hearing officer determines
that a violation did occur, then the officer may do any of the following:
impose a fine anywhere within or up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalty
for an administrative offense; stay or waive a fine either unconditionally or
upon compliance with the appropriate conditions:
         (b)   When imposing a penalty for a violation, the hearing officer may
consider any or all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the violation.
            2.   The frequency of recurrence of the violation.
            3.   The seriousness of the violation.
            4.   The history of the violation.
            5.   The violator's conduct after issuance of the notice of
hearing.
            6.   The good faith effort of the violator to comply.
            7.   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator.
            8.   The impact of the violation upon the community.
            9.   Any other factors appropriate to just result.
      (6)   Fines for continuing violations. The hearing officer may exercise
discretion to impose a fine for more than one day of a continuing violation but
only on a finding that the violation caused a serious threat of harm to the
public health, safety or welfare, or the accused intentionally and unreasonably
refused to comply with the code requirement. The hearing officer's decision and
supporting reasons for continuing violations must be in writing.
      (7)   Decision of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall issue a
decision in writing to both parties within ten days of the hearing. Any fines
or penalties imposed must be paid no later than 30 days of the date of the
hearing officer's order. If the fine is not paid; the city may assess the civil
penalty against the owner's property pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429. If the
hearing officer determines that no violation occurred, the city may not proceed
with criminal prosecution for the same act or conduct. The decision of the
hearing officer is final and may only be appealed to the Minnesota Court of
Appeals by petitioning for a writ of certiorari pursuant to M.S. § 606.01.
   (J)   Payment of fines. Prior to any assessment for unpaid fines, the city
shall seek payment of the fines by notifying the owner of the property in
writing of the fine imposed.
   (K)   Assessment procedure. Unpaid fines, including any administrative
charges for such assessment as indicated in the city's fee schedule, plus
interest of the total balance will be assessed pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429
against the property of the owner charged with the violation. For uncorrected
or continued violations, the city may, after notification to the property
owner, correct the violation pursuant to M.S. § 429.101 and assess all charges
incurred for doing so against the property.
(Ord. 95, passed 2-9-04;Am. Ord. passed 6-12-23)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Administrative offenses; schedule of fines and fees.
   (A)   Except as noted herein or otherwise ordered by the City Council, a
violation of any provision of the city code is an administrative offense which
may be subject to an administrative citation and civil penalties pursuant to
this section. Each day a violation exists constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   An administrative offense may be subject to a civil penalty not
exceeding $2,000.
   (C)   The City Council shall adopt by resolution a schedule of recommended
civil fines for offenses initiated by administrative citation. The City Council
is not bound by that schedule when a matter is appealed for administrative
review.
   (D)   The City Council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to
administrative hearing officers.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-12-23)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY COUNCIL
   
31.   DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
   
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer; procedure
   
30.03   Appeal procedure
   
30.04   Minutes; recording and approval
   
30.05   Order of business
   
30.06   Communication and appearance requests
   
30.07   Voting
   
30.08   Compensation
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Monday
of each month at 6:00 p.m. Meeting dates and times may be amended by resolution
of the City Council at their January regular meeting.
      (2)   Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the
next following business day at the same time and place.
      (3)   All meetings, including special meetings, shall be held in City
Hall unless the Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting or meeting in City
Hall is impossible.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings shall be called by the Administrator and/or Clerk/
Treasurer at the written or verbal request of the Mayor or any two members of
the Council.
      (2)   Notice of the meeting containing the date, time, place, and purpose
of the meeting shall be posted on the outside window of the main entrance of
City Hall and the Menahga Post Office.
      (3)   The notice shall be posted at least three days before the meeting
date.
      (4)   The notice shall be mailed, e-mailed, or otherwise delivered three
days prior to the meeting to each person who has requested notification with
the Administrator and/or City Clerk/Treasurer for all city meeting notices.
      (5)   In calculating the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the next regular business day shall be counted as the
third day.
   (C)   Emergency meetings.
      (1)   An emergency meeting is a special meeting called because of
circumstances that in the judgment of the Council requires immediate
consideration.
      (2)   An emergency meeting may be called by the Mayor or any two Council
members.
      (3)   Posted or published notice of an emergency meeting is not required.
However, the city shall make a good faith effort to notify each news outlet and
all persons requesting meeting notifications with the Administrator and/or City
Clerk/Treasurer by written, verbal or e-mail request.
      (4)   Members of the Council shall be given notice of the meeting by
telephone, e-mail, text or any other effective method to reach members. Notice
shall include the subject of the meeting.
   (D)   Closed meetings. When a meeting is closed, the presiding officer will
state on the record, the reason for closing the meeting and cite the state
statute that permits closing.
   (E)   Recessed or continued meetings.
      (1)   When a meeting is recessed or continued, the presiding officer
shall state the time and place for the meeting to occur and shall record the
time and place in the minutes.
      (2)   No further notice of the recessed or continued meeting is
necessary.
   (F)   Organizational meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in
January of each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city or, in case of a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of boards, commissions
and committees, as may be necessary; and
      (5)   Establish and appoint Council members to Council committees or
representatives as are deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly
management of the city.
   (G)   Public meetings. All Council meetings shall be conducted in accordance
with the Minnesota Open Meeting Law.
(’77 Code, § 201.01) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. 2018-002,
passed 12-10-18; Am. Res. 2021-004, passed 2-9-21; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Presiding officer.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
      (2)   In the absence of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside.
      (3)   In the absence of both, the Clerk/Treasurer and/or Administrator
shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the Council members
present at the meeting choose one of their members to act temporarily as
presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules of
procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to the final
decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be guided, but not bound, by Robert's Rules of
Order, Revised.
(’77 Code, § 201.02) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.03 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)    Any member may appeal to the Council a ruling of the presiding
officer.
   (B)   An appeal is made by motion. No second is needed for the motion.
   (C)   The member making the motion may speak solely on the question involved
and the presiding officer may explain the ruling, but no other Council member
shall participate in the discussion.
   (D)   Once both the maker of the motion and the presiding officer have
spoken, the matter must be voted upon by all the members present.
   (E)   The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the
members present, including the presiding officer.
(’77 Code, § 201.02) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.04 MINUTES; RECORDING AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Recording duties.
      (1)   Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk/
Treasurer and/or Administrator or, in his or her absence, by the Deputy Clerk.
      (2)   In the absence of both, the presiding officer shall appoint
secretary pro tem.
      (3)   Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in
the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the Clerk/Treasurer
and/or Administrator and can be accurately identified from the description
given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval of minutes.
      (1)   The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten form,
shall be signed by the Mayor and Clerk/Treasurer and/or Administrator.
      (2)   Copies of the minutes shall be in the Council packet for the next
regular City Council meeting for approval.
      (3)   The minutes need not be read aloud, but the presiding officer shall
call for any additions or corrections.
      (4)   If there is no objection, the Council shall vote upon the addition
or correction.
      (5)   If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes shall stand
approved.
(’77 Code, § 201.03) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.05 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
    Council business shall be conducted in the following order, unless varied
by the presiding officer:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Pledge of Allegiance;
   (D)   Approval of agenda:
      (1)   Approval of consent agenda;
      (2)   Approval of minutes;
   (E)   Communication and appearance requests;
   (F)   Public input;
   (G)   Reports by departments and liaison groups;
   (H)   Notices and communications;
   (I)   Public hearings;
   (J)   Unfinished business;
   (K)   New business;
   (L)   Consideration of bills; and
   (M)   Adjournment.
(’77 Code, § 201.04) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.06 COMMUNICATION AND APPEARANCE REQUESTS.
   (A)    All persons desiring to present new business before the Council shall
submit an appearance request to the Clerk/Treasurer and/or Administrator at
least five working days before the new business is to be heard.
   (B)   All presentations to the Council shall be limited to five minutes,
unless otherwise ordered by the Council.
   (C)   Persons who do not wish to speak before the Council under
communication and appearance requests, may be heard under "public input," which
is scheduled for each regular meeting.
   (D)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer; but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
   (E)   Agenda. An agenda of business for each regular Council meeting shall
be prepared and filed in the office of the Clerk not later than five days
before the meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the order
of business and copies thereof shall be delivered to each Council member as far
in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. No item of
business shall be considered unless it appears on the agenda for all special
meetings. Additions to the agenda at a regular meeting may be added to the
agenda at the meeting, if approved by a majority of the Council members
present.
(’77 Code, § 201.04) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.07 VOTING.
   (A)    City Council votes shall be taken by voice vote.
   (B)   A clear statement of the matter being voted on and the names of those
voting for and against the matter shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (C)   Council members may ask for a roll call vote by the Clerk/Treasurer
and/or Administrator on any motion.
   (D)   The Clerk/Treasurer and/or Administrator may ask for a verification
roll call vote if the vote of a Council member is not clear on the voice vote.
   (E)   A majority vote of the quorum present shall be sufficient for all
matters before the Council, unless otherwise provided by state statute.
   (F)   Whenever a matter is put forward for a vote, every Council member
shall vote, unless a bona fide conflict of interest, as defined by state law
exists.
(’77 Code, § 201.05) (Am. Ord. 2017-001, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 30.08 COMPENSATION.
   (A)    Effective January 1, 2025, the salary of the Mayor shall be $250 per
month (which includes the regular meeting) and the salary of each Council
member shall be $200 per month (which includes the regular meeting).
   (B)   Effective January 1, 2025, the Mayor and each Council member shall
receive, in addition to their regular compensation, $75 for each special
meeting and budget meeting of the City Council which they attend.
   (C)   Effective January 1, 2025, the Mayor and each Council member shall
receive, in addition to their regular compensation, $75 for each meeting they
attend, as assigned by the City Council (e.g., Fire Contract Committee, union
negotiations representatives, policy meetings, or representatives for other
matters).
(‘77 Code, §§ 201.08 and 201.09) (Ord. 30.08, passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 2012-
01, passed 10-9-12; Am. Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Fire Department
   
31.01   Continuance
   
31.02   Appointment of officers
   
31.03   Duties of Fire Chief
   
31.04   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
31.05   Assistant Fire Chief
   
31.06   Fire fighters; membership and compensation
   
31.07   Interference with officers
   
31.08   Fees for emergency protection fire services
Police Department
   
31.20   Establishment
   
31.21   Chief of Police
   
31.22   Duties of officers
   
31.23   Uniform and badge
   
31.24   Special officers
   
31.25   Residence requirements
Criminal History Checks
   
31.30   Persons subject to criminal history checks
   
31.31   Applications
   
31.32   Waiver statement to be on applications
   
31.33   Information on application
   
31.34   Referral to Chief of Police
   
31.35   Verification
   
31.36   Other investigations
Planning Commission
   
31.40   Establishment
   
31.41   Composition and membership
   
31.42   Organization and meetings
   
31.43   Duties and powers; execution of plans
   
31.44   Compensation
Greenwood Connections Board
   
31.50   Name
   
31.51   Establishment and authority
   
31.52   Board composition, appointment, and term limits
   
31.53   Board officers
   
31.54   Board powers and duties
   
31.55   Establishment and authority of Greenwood Connections Administrator
   
31.56   Funds, accounting and payment of accounts
   
31.57   Authority reserved by City Council
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 94
   Open Burning, see §§
92.60 et seq.
   Subdivisions, see
Chapter 150
   Zoning, see
Chapter 151
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 CONTINUANCE.
   There is continued in the city, a volunteer fire department, which shall
have the following officers: a Chief, an Assistant Chief, a Secretary and a
Treasurer.
(’77 Code, § 203.01) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed annually by the
Council. Members of the Department may recommend to the Council a nominee for
appointment by submitting the same in writing to the Council prior to February
1 of each year. The Chief of the Fire Department shall appoint each year the
Assistant Chief, the Secretary and the Treasurer, subject to confirmation by
the Council. The Chief of the Fire Department, the Assistant Chief, the
Secretary and the Treasurer shall hold office for one year and until the
successor has been duly appointed or qualified. The above-named officers may be
removed by the Council for cause and after a public hearing.
   (B)   Fire fighters and probationary fire fighters shall be appointed by the
members of the Department, subject to confirmation by the Council. Fire
fighters shall continue as members of the Department during good behavior and
may be removed by the Council only for cause and after a public hearing.
(’77 Code, § 203.02) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.03 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall have control over all of the fire fighters and shall
be solely responsible for the Department's care and condition. The Chief shall
make a report monthly to the Council and semi-annually to the Council at its
meeting in March and September, as to the condition of the equipment and needs
of the Fire Department. Any request for changes in compensation, city
contribution to the Fire Relief Association, or pension amount increases, must
be requested with a cost impact analysis. The Chief may submit additional
reports and recommendations at any meeting of the Council and shall report each
suspension of a member of the Fire Department at the first meeting of the
Council following each suspension. The Chief shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the Fire Department and may
suspend any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action
by the Council on the discharge or retention.
('77 Code, § 203.03)
   (B)   The Chief shall keep, in convenient form, a complete record of all
fires (Menahga Fire Department call log). The record shall include the time of
the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire (if known), type of building, name
of owner and tenant, purpose for which occupied, value of building and
contents, members of the Department responding to the alarm and other
information as the Chief may deem advisable or as may be required from time to
time by the Council or the state department.
('77 Code, § 203.05)
   (C)   It is the duty of the Chief, when the weather permits, to hold a
monthly practice drill of at least a one-hour duration for the Fire Department
and to give the fire fighters instruction in approved methods of fire fighting
and fire prevention.
(’77 Code, § 203.06) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.04 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The office of Fire Marshal may be held by the Chief or by the Assistant
Chief, if the Council approves. He or she shall be charged with the enforcement
of laws for fire prevention. The Marshal shall have full authority to inspect
all premises and to cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(’77 Code, § 203.04) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 94
§ 31.05 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(’77 Code, § 203.07) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.06 FIRE FIGHTERS; MEMBERSHIP AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Chief, the Assistant Chief and all fire fighters and probationary
fire fighters shall be not less than 18 years of age and shall be able-bodied.
They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a 12-month
probationary period. The Council may require that each candidate, before
becoming a probationary fire fighter, must satisfy certain minimum
qualifications, which may be specified by the Council, and must pass a
satisfactory physical examination.
('77 Code, § 203.08)
   (B)   Fire fighters absent from three consecutive drills or calls, unless
excused by the Chief, shall forfeit membership in the Department.
('77 Code, § 203.09)
   (C)   Compensation shall be established by the Council.
('77 Code, § 203.10)
   (D)   Persons who have been members of the Fire Department for at least one
year at the time of the adoption of this section shall not be required to serve
a probationary period before receiving rating.
(’77 Code, § 203.11) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.07 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or made,
an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey any
reasonable order of the Chief at a fire. To interfere shall include the
following of the fire truck when its siren and emergency lights are in
operation, closer than 500 feet, by persons not on official city business.
(’77 Code, § 203.12) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 31.08 FEES FOR EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purposes and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the City of Menahga to charge for fire service as authorized by
M.S. §§ 366.011, 366.012, and 415.01, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. For this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure to protect equipment,
life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes the
deployment of fire fighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi-trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the city's Fire Department to provide assistance to the Fire
Department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected.
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates. The charges for services shall be set and amended from time to
time by resolution of the City Council and included on the fee schedule of the
city.
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services shall be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge, requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge cannot be paid in full within 30 days, arrangements may be
made with the Deputy Clerk for six equal monthly installments of the unpaid
fire charge. If the fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be
considered delinquent, and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   Pursuant to M.S. § 366.011, as may be amended from time to time, if
the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the notice of
delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before November 30 of
each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor in
which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by October 15.
      (5)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call.
   (F)   Mutual aid agreement. When the city Fire Department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
   (G)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be designated as city funds and will be deposited into the city's general fund,
to be designated by the City Council, to offset the cost of operations of the
Fire Department.
(Ord. 31.08, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. passed - -)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Department is hereby continued. The head of the Department shall be
known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of the
Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be determined by the
Council by resolution. The compensation to paid members of the Police
Department shall be fixed by the Council. Members of the Department shall be
appointed by the Council.
(’77 Code, § 202.01) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.21 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. He or she shall be responsible to the Council for
law enforcement and for property of the city used by the Department. He or she
shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline of the members of
the Department. He or she shall be responsible for the keeping of adequate
records and he or she shall report to the Council on the needs of the
Department and its work. Every member of the Department subordinate to the
Chief shall obey the instructions of the Chief and any superior officer. The
Council shall designate one of the police officers as Acting Chief, who shall
have all the powers and duties of the Chief during his or her absence or
disability.
(’77 Code, § 202.02) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.22 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the laws applicable to the
city, bring violators before the court and make complaints for offenses coming
to their knowledge. Members of the Police Department shall serve processes on
behalf of the city and shall serve notices as may be required by the Council or
other authority. When the city is not party to the proceedings or involved in
the process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as provided by
law for town constables. All fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(’77 Code, § 202.03) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.23 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform, except that the Chief may authorize the performance of specific
duties while not in uniform. The city shall furnish each full-time officer with
a badge, which, upon termination of membership in the Department, the member
shall immediately deliver to the city, along with all other city property. The
city shall furnish each part-time officer with a uniform and badge. Upon
termination of membership in the Department, the member shall immediately
deliver to the city the badge, uniform and all other property of the city.
(’77 Code, § 202.04) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.24 SPECIAL OFFICERS.
   In case of a riot or other law enforcement emergency, the City Council may
appoint for a specified time as many emergency assistants to the Chief of
Police as may be necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During the
term of appointment, the emergency assistants to the Chief of Police shall have
only those powers and perform only those duties as shall be specifically
assigned by the Chief of Police.
(’77 Code, § 202.05) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.25 RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The City Council has found it necessary for the welfare and protection of
city residents to require police officers to live close enough to the city to
be able to respond to a call within 15 minutes. Therefore, all city police
officers shall live close enough to the city to be able to respond to a call
within 15 minutes driving the posted speed limit.
(Ord. 8, passed 7-9-84; Am. Ord. passed - -)
CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS
§ 31.30 PERSONS SUBJECT TO CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECKS.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Menahga hires, appoints and contracts
with individuals for the following positions: all staff positions; volunteer
fire fighters; citizens on patrol (COPS) and other entities designated as
neighborhood watch programs; city boards and committees; and independent
contractors hired to perform specific contracts or services.
   (B)   In addition, the city accepts filings for those wishing to run for
elective offices and issues various licenses and permits pursuant to this code.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.31 APPLICATIONS.
   Individuals applying for the list of activities in §
31.30 will complete an application with the City Clerk or City Administrator
with respect to city offices and with directors of the other agencies mentioned
in the list in §
31.30.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.32 WAIVER STATEMENT TO BE ON APPLICATIONS.
   The following waiver language shall appear on all applications: Everything
that I have stated in this application is correct to the best of my knowledge.
I understand that you will retain this application whether or not it is
approved. You are authorized to conduct a criminal history check.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.33 INFORMATION ON APPLICATION.
   Applications submitted to the Chief of Police for background checks must
include the following information:
   (A)   Name, place and date of birth, and residence address;
   (B)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other than
his or her present name, and if so, the names so used and any additional
information concerning dates and places where those names were used;
   (C)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the name,
place and date of birth, and residence of the applicant's present spouse;
   (D)   Whether the applicant, applicant's spouse, or a parent, brother,
sister or child of either of them has been convicted of any felony, crime or
violation of any city ordinance other than traffic matters and petty
misdemeanors. If so, the applicant shall furnish information regarding the
time, place, and offense for which convictions were had; and
   (E)   Any other information as the city or other agency may require.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.34 REFERRAL TO CHIEF OF POLICE.
   All applications will be referred to the Chief of Police for verification
and investigation of the facts set forth in the application. Investigations
shall include, but not be limited to, a criminal history records check. The
Chief of Police will cause to be made an investigation of the information
requested in §
31.33 as shall be necessary and a list of all violations of federal or state
law or municipal ordinance and other facts that weigh upon the public interest
in considering an application.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.35 VERIFICATION.
   Upon investigation and verification of the facts set forth in the
application, the City Clerk or City Administrator may use the data compiled to
approve or deny an applicant's application.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.36 OTHER INVESTIGATIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter will prohibit the Chief of Police from conducting
other investigations and background checks including driver's license checks
and credit checks as authorized by state or federal law.
(Ord. passed - -)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Planning Commission for the city is established. The Commission shall be
the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354, Subdivision 1, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(’77 Code, § 204.01) (Am. Ord. 2018-001, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.41 COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members from the
resident population of the city, or a business owner (who need not be a
resident) appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
      (1)   The appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms of three
years, except as noted below, commencing on the first day of January in the
year of appointment.
      (2)   Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall continue until
reappointed, or a successor is appointed.
      (3)   It is the duty of each member to be present at all Planning
Commission meetings. Absence from any three meetings in a year, unless excused
in advance by the chair, constitutes a vacancy.
      (4)   In the event of any vacancy, the Mayor, with the approval of the
Council, shall appoint a person to complete the unexpired term.
   (B)   One member shall be a Council member appointed by the Mayor with
Council approval, for a one-year term to expire on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   Other people may serve in an ex-officio capacity as the Council deems
appropriate. Ex- officio members will not have voting rights.
   (D)   Each of the five regular Planning Commission members shall have equal
voting privileges.
   (E)   Any member may be removed for cause by a four-fifths majority vote of
the City Council upon written charge and after a public hearing held by the
City Council.
(’77 Code, § 204.02) (Am. Ord. 2018-001, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.42 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting in January, the Commission shall elect a
Chair and Vice Chair from among its appointed members, each for a term of one
year.
   (B)   The Commission may create and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet monthly on the first Thursday of each month,
unless otherwise determined by the Commission.
   (D)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chair, or in case of
the Chair's absence, by the Vice Chair.
   (E)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer and/or Administrator prior to the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting, but shall be subject to approval at the next Planning Commission
meeting.
   (F)   No expenditures by the Commission shall be made unless and until
authorized for the purpose by the Council.
(’77 Code, § 204.03) (Am. Ord. 2018-001, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.43 DUTIES AND POWERS; EXECUTION OF PLANS.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and
duties given to city planning agencies generally by law and shall also exercise
the duties conferred upon it by this code.
   (B)   Comprehensive plan.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend Council
adoption of a comprehensive plan for the physical development of the city,
including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and improvements,
efficient design of major thoroughfares for traffic movement, parking
facilities, public utilities services, parks and playgrounds, a general land
use plan and other matters relating to the physical development of the city.
      (2)   The plan may be prepared in sections, each of which shall relate to
the overall comprehensive plan.
      (3)   The Commission shall periodically, but at least every five years,
review the comprehensive plan and any ordinances or program implementing the
plan.
      (4)   Following Council adoption of the comprehensive plan or any section
of the plan, the Commission shall recommend to the Council reasonable and
practicable means for implementing the plan or sections.
      (5)   The plan will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical
development of the city and as a basis for judging the timely disbursements of
funds to implement the objective.
      (6)   Means of effectuating the plan shall, among other things, consist
of zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, capital improvement programming
and technical review, and recommendations of matters referred to the Planning
Commission by the Council.
   (C)   Zoning code. The Planning Commission shall review all proposed
amendments to the zoning chapter, hold public hearings and make recommendations
to the Council as prescribed by the zoning chapter.
   (D)   Conditional use and interim use permits. The Planning Commission shall
make recommendations on all conditional use permit requests under the terms of
the zoning chapter. The Commission shall report its recommendations to the
Council for Council action.
   (E)   Subdivision of land and rezone requests. The Planning Commission shall
make recommendations in relation to the subdividing of land and rezone requests
as prescribed by the zoning chapter. The Commission shall report its
recommendation to the Council for Council action.
   (F)   Capital improvement plan. The Planning Commission shall list and
classify all proposed public works projects and shall prepare a coordinated
program of proposed public works projects for the ensuing year and for a
projected five-year period. The Planning Commission shall recommend to the
Council all needed updates to the plan.
('77 Code, § 204.04)
   (G)   Variances. All applications for variances shall be referred to the
city's Planning Commission and forwarded with or without recommendations
directly to the Council for its decision.
   (H)   Other duties.
      (1)   To hold public hearings for the city as directed by the City
Council. All public hearings will be held in accordance to M.S. § 394.26, as
may be amended from time to time, which requires placing notice in the official
newspaper, required notifications and posted at City Hall at least ten days
prior to the meeting.
      (2)   To acknowledge all metes and bounds property divisions within the
city that result in parcels under five acres.
(’77 Code, § 204.05) (Am. Ord. 2018-001, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.44 COMPENSATION.
   Each commission member shall receive compensation for each meeting the
member attends. Compensation will be set by resolution of the City Council from
time to time.
(Am. Ord. 2018-001, passed 2-12-18; Am. Ord. passed - -)
GREENWOOD CONNECTIONS BOARD
§ 31.50 NAME.
   The nursing home, and home for the aged, and related facilities owned by the
city is hereby collectively named Greenwood Connections. The nursing home may
also be known or referred to as Green Pine Acres Nursing Home, and the assisted
living known or referred to as Woodside Manor.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.51 ESTABLISHMENT AND AUTHORITY.
   Greenwood Connections Board (“Board”) is hereby established and authorized
to manage and operate Greenwood Connections, subject to the authority of the
City Council, as provided in M.S. § 447.41, as amended.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.52 BOARD COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT, AND TERM LIMITS.
   The Board shall be composed of seven members, two of whom shall be members
of the City Council, appointed by the City Council on an annual basis. The
remaining five members of the Board shall serve for a term of four years. At
all times a minimum of five of the members of the Board shall be residents and
qualified voters of the city. A member shall serve for a maximum of three
consecutive terms. The City Council, at its meeting in December, shall appoint
appropriate persons to succeed the members whose terms expire in such year.
Vacancies on the Board shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with City
Council approval. Board members will be compensated for each meeting they
attend with the amount to be determined and recommended from time to time by
the Board and ratified by City Council. In the event that an ad hoc committee
is needed they will be compensated for each meeting they attend with the amount
to be determined and recommended from time to time by the Board and ratified by
the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31.52, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-
16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.53 BOARD OFFICERS.
   Each year in January at the first regular meeting of the Board, the Board
shall elect the Board President and Vice-President from members of the Board,
and the Board Secretary, who may be a non-Board member. The Board President is
the presiding officer for all Board meetings. The Board Vice-President shall
perform the duties of the Board President in the case of absence or incapacity.
The Board Secretary shall take Board meeting minutes and provide the city's
designated responsible authority and/or designee with the minutes within ten
days after each meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.54 BOARD POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board or its designee, to the extent permissible by law, shall
have the power to:
      (1)   Require a bond of any officer or employee and pay the premium
thereon;
      (2)   Recommend hiring and terminating of employees to the City Council;
      (3)   Effect all necessary insurance;
      (4)   Approve repairs of Greenwood Connections and its contents;
      (5)   Administrator has authority to purchase all necessary equipment,
apparatus and supplies up to $25,000. Splitting of purchase orders to create
orders of $25,000 or less which cumulatively would exceed $25,000 is
prohibited; and
      (6)   Receive and accept all donations and contributions for Greenwood
Connections and related purposes and manage any such gifts that may be in the
form of securities or property; subject to acceptance by the City Council.
   (B)   The Board shall reserve unto itself the following powers:
      (1)   Establish such committees as it sees fit;
      (2)   A search committee to replace the Greenwood Connections
Administrator will consist of: the entire City Council, two Greenwood
Connections Board Members, two Greenwood Connections supervisory staff and City
Clerk/Treasurer. The City Council shall be responsible for the appointment of a
qualified individual to function as the Greenwood Connections Administrator,
with a recommended compensation package;
      (3)   The Board shall approve the budget including rates and suitable
charges for Greenwood Connections, and for payment and collection of the rates
and charges; subject to approval by the City Council;
      (4)   The Board shall recommend capital improvement/purchases over
$25,000; subject to City Council approval;
      (5)   The Board shall meet monthly and all meetings must comply with the
open meeting law pursuant to Minnesota Statutes;
      (6)   The Board shall establish salary scales and benefit program for
employees; subject to City Council approval;
      (7)   Each member of the Board shall serve in good faith and in a
diligent and responsible manner with a duty of loyalty to exercise his or her
authority on behalf of the institution rather than for any personal gain or
benefit; and
      (8)   The Board shall meet annually in joint session with the City
Council to hear the report of the Auditor, review the Auditor’s management
letter and review the operations of Greenwood Connections.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.55 ESTABLISHMENT AND AUTHORITY OF GREENWOOD CONNECTIONS ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Greenwood Connections (GWC) Administrator is hereby established for the
purposes of carrying out the administration of Greenwood Connections and its
related facilities' management and operations and is directly responsible to
the Board. To the extent deemed necessary by the Board including the duties
provided in §
31.54 at the discretion of the Board. The City Council authorizes the GWC
Administrator to approve and sign all contracts with the following
restrictions: Purchase of capital and non-capital items or contracts over
$25,000 shall first be approved by City Council. All employment contracts and
final authority for hiring and terminations of employees shall be approved by
the City Council monthly.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.56 FUNDS, ACCOUNTING AND PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   All earnings of Greenwood Connections together with all contributions and
other funds procured for the maintenance and improvement of Greenwood
Connections shall be deposited into the nursing home fund. All checks drawn on
the account of Greenwood Connections shall contain two signatures. One
signature shall be of either the Greenwood Connections Administrator, Mayor or
City Clerk/Treasurer. The second signature shall be either the Business Office
Manager, Mayor, City Clerk/Treasurer, Deputy Clerk/Treasurer or Deputy Mayor.
The City Council authorizes the Greenwood Connections Administrator and
Greenwood Connections Business Office Manager to make regular expenditure
payments for Greenwood Connections to include payroll expenditures, regular
cyclical payments and payments for all necessary equipment, apparatus, and
supplies. The Board authorizes the Greenwood Connections Administrator to
approve and make the payment of regular expenditures and any single capital
item of purchase not specifically included in the budget that does not exceed
$25,000. All capital items of purchase of more than $25,000 shall first be
approved by the City Council. The Greenwood Connections Board/Administrator
shall keep accurate accountings of all monies received and disbursed by it and
of all outstanding credits and liabilities and shall furnish to the Council on
a monthly basis an itemized list of all checks written and a financial
statement showing monthly income, expenditures and fund balances. The books,
accounts and funds of the facility shall be audited in the same manner as all
other funds of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 31, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.57 AUTHORITY RESERVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall, to the extent permissible by law, have the exclusive
authority to:
   (A)   Construct any additional nursing homes and related facilities;
   (B)   Construct any appurtenant structures;
   (C)   Acquire any real property;
   (D)   The city shall withdraw, by referendum vote only, its interest in a
nursing home or home for the aged; and
   (E)   Levy or impose taxes for the operation and maintenance of any part of
Greenwood Connections.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Interpretation and effect
   
32.03   Definitions
   
32.04   Establishment of Emergency Management Organization
   
32.05   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.06   Local emergencies
   
32.07   Emergency regulations
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, from sabotage or hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which require that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter, the workers’ compensation law, or any
pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government, the Emergency Management
Organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed at any time.
The Director shall serve with a salary and shall be paid necessary expenses.
The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the state emergency plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions,
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the state and city emergency plans, the Director
shall institute training programs and public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the city emergency plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city’s Emergency Management Organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of emergency activities as will involve the utilization of the
facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.06 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations consistent
with applicable federal or state law or regulations respecting the conduct of
persons and the use of property during emergencies, the repair, maintenance and
safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health, fire and safety
regulations, drills or practice periods required for preliminary training, and
all other matters which are required to protect public safety, health and
welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing, shall
be dated, shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the Office of the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public inspection
during business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations and their
availability for inspection at the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator’s office
shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the City Hall or other
headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as the Council
shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may modify or
rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirements for bids.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The Emergency Management Organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Applications for service; connections
   
50.02   Billing; owner’s responsibility
   
50.03   Protection of city; permit and bond
Water Regulations
   
50.15   Connections; service and supply
   
50.16   Plumbing regulations
   
50.17   Meters; maintenance and testing
   
50.18   Water rates adopted by reference
Sanitary Sewer System
   
50.30   Sewer construction
   
50.31   Discharge of surface water
   
50.32   Connection required
Individual Sewage Disposal Systems
   
50.45   Purpose and objectives
   
50.46   Definitions
   
50.47   State regulations adopted by reference
   
50.48   Administration
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of water or sewer system restricted. No person other than a city
employee shall uncover or make use of any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system, except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(’77 Code, § 401.01)
   (B)   Applications for service. Application for a water or sewer service
installation and for water service shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator on forms approved by the Utilities Superintendent and furnished
by the city. The applicant’s signature shall be an agreement to conform to this
chapter and to rules and regulations that may be established by the city as
conditions for the use of the water.
(’77 Code, § 401.02)
   (C)   (1)   Charges for service connections. No connection shall be made to
the city water or sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the
Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator. The fee for each permit shall be as established
from time to time by Council resolution for a water main connection permit and
as established from time to time by Council resolution for a sewer connection
permit. These fees shall be in addition to any fees required under subsections
(3) through (5) below.
      (2)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a
service line from the main to the property line, the cost of installing the
service from the main to the premises, as well as repairs to the same, shall be
borne entirely by the consumer.
      (3)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water
or sanitary sewer main unless the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator certifies to
the truth of one of the following, or if payment required under subsection (4)
is made:
         (a)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings
for levying the assessment have been or will be commenced in due course;
         (b)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the
developer or builder platting the lot or tract; or
         (c)   If neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion
of the cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot
or parcel has been paid to the city.
      (4)   Additional connection fee. If no certification can be issued, the
applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the portion of the
cost of construction of the main upon the same basis as any assessment
previously levied against other property for the main. The determination shall
be made by the Council. If no assessment has been levied, the assessable cost
shall be determined upon the basis of the uniform charge which may have been or
will be charged for similar connection with the main. The amount shall be
determined on the basis of the total assessable cost of the main allocated on
the basis of frontage or other equitable means.
(’77 Code, § 401.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.02 BILLING; OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The owner shall be liable for water supplied or sewer service provided
to the owner’s property, whether the owner is occupying the property or not,
and any charges unpaid shall be a lien upon the property. The City Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator’s office requires a renter’s deposit as may be
established from time to time by Council resolution.
   (B)   Water and sewer charges shall be billed together. Bills shall be
mailed to the customers monthly and shall specify the water consumed and the
sewer and water charges in accordance with the rates set out in this chapter.
   (C)   All charges for water and sewer shall be due on the monthly due date
of the tenth of each month. Eighteen percent per annum interest charge on the
60 days past due balance, 90 days past due letter to owner and renter, if
rental property, requiring payment or arrangements to be made for payment.
Delinquent accounts, 90 days past due, shall be certified to the County Auditor
on October 10.
(’77 Code, § 401.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03 PROTECTION OF CITY; PERMIT AND BOND.
   (A)   Protection of public and city.  A permit for construction and
connection of the extension between a building drain and the sewer main or
stub, herein called the building sewer, or for construction of a water main or
stub, shall be issued only upon application by a person who has furnished a
bond either to the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator or to the Secretary of State,
under M.S. § 326.40, as it may be amended from time to time. The bond shall be
in the amount of $2,000 conditioned so as to secure compliance by the principal
with the provisions of this code and to further secure the person’s performance
of all work undertaken within the city.
   (B)   Liability insurance. Before undertaking the construction work
authorized by the permit, the person shall secure and maintain a policy of
insurance against damages to property or injury or death to individuals. Before
the permit should be issued, the person shall agree to hold the city harmless
and shall agree to defend and indemnify the city, and the city’s employees and
agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the work under
the permit. The city shall be named as an additional insured under that
insurance. The licensee’s contract of insurance shall be the primary
insurance for the city and the person or insurance company shall provide a
certificate of insurance which verifies the existence of the insurance
required, including provisions to hold the city harmless and defend and
indemnify the city. The insurance shall provide coverage up to $300,000 for any
single claim and $1,000,000 for any number of claims in a single occurrence.
Proof of insurance shall be filed with the city prior to construction work and
the policy shall provide that the city shall be notified immediately of any
termination or modification of the insurance. If the insurance coverage is
adequate in amount, the person shall indemnify and save harmless the city and
its personnel in like manner.
   (C)   Indemnification by owner. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer or extension
of water service to private property. The owner shall indemnify the city for
any loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by its installation. The
Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall establish rules and regulations for the
proper implementation of these requirements which, when approved by the Council
by resolution, shall govern the installation of building sewers and
connections.
(’77 Code, § 401.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 CONNECTIONS; SERVICE AND SUPPLY.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs, upon notice as provided in
§ 50.02 for non-payment of charges or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than one house or building shall be
supplied from one service connection, except by special permission of the
Council. Whenever two or more parties are supplied from one pipe connecting
with a service main, each building or part of a building separately supplied
shall have a separate stop box and separate meter.
   (C)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person, except an authorized city
employee, shall turn on any water supply at the stop box or tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a stop cork or
other appurtenance therein without a city permit.
   (D)   Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the service pipe from the mail box into the building served. If the
consumer fails to repair any leak in the service pipe within 24 hours after
notice by the city, the city may turn the water off. The water shall not then
be turned on again until the sum as established from time to time by Council
resolution has been paid to the city. When the waste of water is great or
damage is likely to result from the leak, the city shall turn the water off
immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not commenced immediately.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrants. No person, other than an authorized city
employee, shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city
water system without first obtaining authority to do so from the Utilities
Superintendent.
   (F)   Private water supply. No water pipe of the city water supply system
shall be connected with any pump, well or tank that is connected with any other
source of water supply. When any connection is found, the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall notify the owner to sever the connection and if this is not
done immediately, the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith. Before
any new connection to the city system is permitted, city employees shall
ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air conditioning or other specified uses. After publication of the
resolution or two days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution; any
customer who does so shall be charged a sum as established from time to time by
Council resolution for each day of violation and the charge shall be added to
his or her next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance with
terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of
the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who has
received the notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the above charge. Continued
violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
(’77 Code, § 402.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Required basic improvements, see §
150.41
   Zoning, see
Chapter 151
§ 50.16 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
to allow not less than one foot of extra length and in such manner as to
prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than
eight feet below the surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by
freezing. A shut-off or other stop cork with a waste valve of a size and
strength required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and
be well protected from freezing. Copper tubing shall be used for all services
of two inches or less. Joints on copper tubing shall be as few as possible and
not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length.
Each joint shall be left uncovered until inspected by the city. Every service
over two inches shall be cast iron or PVC, or meet the NB Plumbing Code.
Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least 3/4 of an inch
per residential unit, or equivalent.
   (B)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The gate or ball valve shall be 12 inches above the floor;
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be 12 inches above the finished floor
line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches horizontally from the
inside line of the basement wall unless a different position is approved by the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator or his or her designee. A suitable bracket
shall be provided to support the meter in a proper vertical position and
prevent noise from vibration;
      (3)   The water pipe connecting with the main shall not exceed two feet
under the basement floor from the inside basement wall to the water meter
connection; and
      (4)   Deviation from the installation specifications in the subdivision
shall be by Council approval only.
(’77 Code, § 402.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.17 METERS; MAINTENANCE AND TESTING.
   (A)   Meters required. Except for the extinguishing of fires, no person
other than an authorized city employee shall use water from the city water
supply system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes
through a meter supplied or approved by the city. No person not authorized by
the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall connect, disconnect, take apart or in
any manner change or interfere with any meter or its use.
   (B)   Maintenance. The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any
meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall
replace it if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act
or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense
caused thereby shall be a charge against and collected from the water consumer,
and water service may be disconnected until the cause is corrected and the
amount charged is paid.
   (C)   Complaints; meter testing. When a consumer complains that the bill for
any past service period is excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on
request. If still dissatisfied, the consumer may, on written request and a
deposit as may be established from time to time by Council resolution, have the
meter tested. If the test shows error in the city’s favor exceeding 5% of the
water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded, an accurate meter shall be
installed, and the bill shall be adjusted accordingly. The adjustment shall not
extend back more than one service period from the date of the written request.
   (D)   Meters property of city. Water meters shall be the property of the
city and may be removed or replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
   (E)   Meter reading and inspection. Authorized meter readers shall have free
access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of every building and
premises connected with the city water supply system in order to read meters
and make inspections.
(’77 Code, § 402.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.18 WATER RATES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Water rates shall be established by Council resolution and may be revised
from time to time, and are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated fully
as if set out herein.
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 50.30 SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the requirements of the Minnesota
Building and Plumbing Codes. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the Utilities Superintendent when the building sewer and connection is
ready for inspection. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Utilities Superintendent or the Inspector’s representative. No backfill shall
be placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
(’77 Code, § 403.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.31 DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATER.
   (A)   Discharge of surface water.  No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm sewer, surface water, groundwater, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. No rain spout or
other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage shall be connected
with any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Non-acceptable wastes. No person shall discharge or permit to be
discharged into any public sewer any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 180° F.;
      (2)   Any water or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand
exceeding 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any 12-month
period;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide or
other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage works;
      (6)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than six or higher than nine
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance,
whether or not listed as a hazardous waste by Minnesota Rules part 7045.0135,
as it may be amended from time to time, in sufficient quantities to constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, injure or interfere with sewage treatment, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant; or
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when
they are necessary for the proper handling of any liquid waste containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful
ingredients; but such interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. Interceptors shall be located so as to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (D)   Control manhole required. The owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of the
waste. The manhole shall be constructed by the owner in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer. The owner shall maintain the manhole so as to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (E)   Separate sewers. A separate and independent sewer shall be provided
for every building connected to the sewer system, except that the Council may
waive this requirement where it finds that a separate sewer for a building is
impractical.
   (F)   Inspections.
 
      (1)   The city’s Utilities Superintendent and other authorized employees
of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall, at
reasonable times, be permitted to enter upon all properties connected to the
city sanitary sewer system for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing.
      (2)   The premises of any property owner or occupant, who refuses entry
to a city employee, after a proper request as provided for in this section,
shall be terminated from the connection with the city sanitary system. The
termination of connection shall be effected by the city only after a hearing
before the City Council upon ten days mailed notice to the owner or occupant
concerned.
      (3)   The requirements of § 50.32, for connection to the city sanitary
sewer system, shall not be applicable to property disconnected under this
section. However, any property producing sewage shall be equipped with an
adequately maintained and liquid tight holding tank.
(’77 Code, § 403.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.32 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)    Suitable facilities. When property abuts upon any street or alley
along which water and sewer mains have been constructed, the owner of any
dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall install suitable
toilet facilities therein and connect them with the sanitary sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after the date of
mailing or delivering official notice to do so. The notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant in writing by the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator on order
of the Council.
   (B)   Connection by city. Whenever any owner or occupant fails to comply
with the written notice, the Council shall, by resolution, direct that a toilet
be installed and connection made with the water and sewer system and that the
cost of the installation be paid in the first instance out of the general fund
and then assessed against the property benefitted.
   (C)   Unpaid connection charge.
      (1)   After the installation and connection have been completed pursuant
to Council resolution, the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall serve a written
notice of the unpaid connection charge upon the owner or the owner’s
representative directing the owner to pay the unpaid connection charge to the
Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator within ten days after the service of the notice.
      (2)   If the assessment is not paid within ten days, the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall certify the amount to the County Auditor for collection in
the same manner as property taxes and connection charges. The Council may by
resolution spread the unpaid connection charge over a three-year period.
(’77 Code, § 403.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 50.45 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives are to provide adequate and safe methods of sewage disposal
and to prevent the contamination of any existing or future water supply by an
existing or future sewage disposal system. Any system of special, unusual or
new design which will satisfy the objectives may be accepted as
complying with this subchapter and any permit granted for the construction,
installation, alteration or repair of any system shall be subject to the
conditions and guarantees as may be stated in the permit.
(’77 Code, § 404.08)
§ 50.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. Part of the building drainage system which receives the
discharge from soil, wastes and other drainage pipes inside the walls of any
building and conveys the same to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. Part of the horizontal portion of the building drainage
system, extending from the building drain to its connection with the septic
tank and carrying the sewage out of the building.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system, other than a
public or community system, which receives sewage from an individual
establishment. Unless otherwise indicated, the word “system” as it appears in
this subchapter means INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage, of any residence, industry or commercial establishment, whether
treated or untreated, and includes the liquid wastes produced by bathing,
laundry and culinary operations, and from toilets and floor drains. Raw sewage
is SEWAGE which has not been subjected to any treatment process.
(’77 Code, § 404.01)
§ 50.47 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7080, as it may be amended from time to time, is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set
forth herein. Before publication of this code of ordinances, the Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator shall mark at least one copy of this code as an
official copy and file it in his or her office for use and examination.
(’77 Code, § 404.02)
§ 50.48 ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(’77 Code, § 404.06)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Turning restrictions
   
70.03   Designation of through and one-way streets; authority
   
70.04   Establishment of safety zones
   
70.05   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.06   Enforcement
   
70.07   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.08   Recreational vehicles and golf carts
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may be
amended from time to time, has the meaning given it by that section.
(’77 Code, § 701.01)
§ 70.02 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to preserve a free flow of
traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any intersection as one where the
turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or both, is to be restricted
at all times during specified hours. The City Engineer shall mark by
appropriate signs any intersection so designated. No intersection on a trunk
highway shall be so designated until the consent of the Commissioner of
Transportation to the designation is first obtained. No person shall turn a
vehicle at any intersection contrary to the directions on the signs.
(’77 Code, § 701.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH AND ONE-WAY STREETS; AUTHORITY.
   The Council, by resolution, may designate any street or portion of street as
a through highway or a one-way roadway where necessary to preserve the free
flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. The City Engineer shall post
appropriate signs at the entrance to the street. No trunk highway shall be so
designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the
designation is first secured.
(’77 Code, § 701.03)
§ 70.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF SAFETY ZONES.
   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe driving
conditions at any intersection or dangerous location and to warn pedestrians or
drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions or hazards, the Chief of
Police may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic and stop intersections, and
he or she may order installation by the City Engineer of stop signs, yield
signs, warning signs, signals, pavement markings or other devices. No
regulation may be established on a trunk highway unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation is first secured.
(’77 Code, § 701.11)
§ 70.05 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is a
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(’77 Code, § 701.13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and the
state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic within
the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in
conformity with this chapter and the state traffic laws. During a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police Department may direct traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the
provisions of this chapter and the state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire
Department may direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene of
a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
(’77 Code, § 701.14)
§ 70.07 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of
highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statues for the same offense.
§ 70.08 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless the language or context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended, the following terms shall have the following
meanings.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV) CLASS ONE. Motorized flotation-tired vehicles
with at least three but no more than six low pressure tires that have an engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less
than 1,000 to 1,800 pounds.
      ALL-TERAIN VEHICLE (ATV) CLASS TWO. Motorized flotation-tired vehicles
with at least three but no more than six low pressure tires that have an engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of 1,000
pounds to 1,800.
      INSURANCE. Motor vehicle liability insurance, which complies with the
requirements set forth in Minn. State Statutes. If a person cannot obtain
liability insurance in the private market, that person may purchase automobile
insurance, including no-fault coverage, from the Minnesota Automobile Insurance
Plan at a rate to be determined by the Commissioner of Commerce.
      MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A vehicle usually three or four wheeled, which is
self- propelled and is designed to be used to provide transportation on a golf
course.
      SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. A sign which complies with the requirements
set forth in M.S. § 169.522.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle originally manufactured and designed
for travel on snow or ice steered by skis or runners. SNOWMOBILE does not
include ATVs as defined above that are equipped with aftermarket ski and track
configurations.
      PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSON. Any person meeting the criteria set forth in
M.S. § 169.345, subd. 2 that qualifies for a certificate allowing the person to
park in a handicapped-parking space.
   (B)   Restricted and prohibited operation. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a snowmobile or ATV under the following circumstances:
      (1)   On city parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, and the city beach.
      (2)   On private property of another without permission to do so by the
owner of said property.
      (3)   On any city sidewalk, designated walking/bike trail.
      (4)   On State Hwy 87 and State Hwy 71; with the exception of crossing as
state statute allows.
      (5)   Between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Sunday through
Saturday, within city limits.
      (6)   Exceptions: Emergency vehicles in the course of their duties and
vehicles authorized by the city.
   (C)   Operator permits.
      (1)   Persons wishing to operate motorized golf carts on public roadways
must obtain application from the City Police Department and shall be issued by
the City Clerk. The City Council will set a reasonable fee to cover the cost of
issuing such permits.
      (2)   Conditions for issuance of a permit are as follows:
         (a)   (i)   Persons at least 16 years of age and holding a driver’s
license recognized by the State of Minnesota as permitting the operation of
motor vehicles in the state are eligible for permits. A permit issued under
this section shall be valid during the time and under the circumstances that
the holder’s driver’s license would allow operation of a motor vehicle in the
State of Minnesota.
            (ii)   Persons not holding a driver’s license may apply for an
initial or renewal permit. Applications shall be accompanied by a certificate
signed by a physician stating that the applicant is capable of safely operating
a motorized golf cart or a four-wheel all-terrain vehicle on the roadway of
streets.
         (b)   Applicant’s golf cart must be equipped with a rearview mirror.
         (c)   Applicant’s golf cart must have a reflective slow moving vehicle
sign on the rear of the vehicle.
         (d)   Applicant’s golf cart must have current vehicle/homeowner’s
insurance per M.S. § 169.045, subd. 8.
         (e)   All golf carts and ATVs must have mufflers that are properly
attached, which reduce the noise of operation of the vehicle to a minimum. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or similar device on said vehicles.
         (f)   Each golf cart will be issued is own permit. Permits issued to
dealers may be transferred for the purpose of test-driving a vehicle. However,
vehicles used for the operation of a business will have their own permit.
         (g)   All vehicles will be inspected by the Police Department at time
of initial application for that particular vehicle.
      (3)   If an applicant satisfies the above described conditions, the city
shall issue a permit. Permits will be valid for the calendar year in which they
were issued. Permits will be issued throughout the year however permits will
not be prorated if purchased for less than 12 months.
   (D)   Operation.
      (1)   A person who has been granted a permit shall have the permit
displayed on the golf cart. The permit will be placed on the rear of the
vehicle in such a fashion as to be visible to following vehicles.
      (2)   Motorized golf carts, snowmobiles and ATVs shall only be operated
on city-owned streets, alleys, and county roads or county state-aid highways
located within the boundaries of the city. Golf carts, snowmobiles and ATVs are
permitted to cross State Hwy 71.
      (3)   Golf carts may not be operated during inclement weather or when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (4)   Motorized golf cart, snowmobiles and ATV operators must obey all
traffic laws which can be applied to motorized vehicles. Golf carts,
snowmobiles and ATVs may not travel at a speed in excess of 15 MPH.
      (5)   Physically disabled persons wishing to park in marked handicap
parking spaces are required to display their state issued handicap-parking
permit.
      (6)   A permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that the
permittee cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart on the designated
roadways. The city may require, as a condition to obtaining a permit, that the
applicant submit a certificate signed by a physician that the applicant is able
to safely operate a motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on the roadways
designated.
      (7)   Golf carts, snowmobiles and ATVs not equipped with brake lights or
turn signals must use appropriate hand signals as defined by M.S. § 169.19,
subd. 8.
      (8)   This section is not all-inclusive. Operators of ATVs and
snowmobiles need to comply with all off-road vehicle laws, which are available
for review in the Minnesota Department of Natural Resource Off-Highway Vehicle
Regulations Manual.
      (9)   The operator is required to obey all Minnesota traffic laws and use
hand signals.
      (10)   The operator is required to have a valid driver’s license for
legal operation.
      (11)   An operator can be arrested for D.U.I. while operating a golf
cart, snowmobile or ATV.
   (E)   Limitation of liability. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
an assumption of liability by the city for any injuries to persons or property
which may result from the operation of a motorized golf cart, snowmobiles or
ATV by a permit holder or the failure by the city to revoke the permit.
   (F)   Violations.
      (1)   Violation of any of the requirements of this section is a
misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail, a fine of up to $1,000 or
both.
      (2)   In addition to any criminal sanctions, the permit may be revoked by
the city for any violations of this section.
      (3)   The city is notified by any court that a permit holder was
convicted of violating a state or local traffic law other than a parking law
while operating the motorized golf cart, snowmobile or ATV.
      (4)   An applicant is found to have made fraudulent representations in a
permit application.
(Ord. passed 12-11-23)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Angle and parallel parking
   
71.03   No stopping, standing or parking zones
   
71.04   Time restrictions
   
71.05   Truck zones; loading zones
   
71.06   Bus stops and taxi stands
   
71.07   Winter parking; restrictions
   
71.08   Removing keys while parked
   
71.09   Impounding vehicles; violations
   
71.10   Truck parking regulations on certain streets
§ 71.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 169.01, as it may be
amended from time to time, has the meaning given it by that section.
(’77 Code, § 701.01)
§ 71.02 ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be required on designated streets. On any designated
street, every vehicle shall be parked with the front of the vehicle facing the
curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the street at an angle of
approximately 60° or as specified in M.S. Chapter 169, and the Minnesota
Uniform Traffic Control Guidelines as it or they may be amended from time to
time and facing between the painted or other markings on the curb or street
indicating the parking space. On all other streets, cars shall be parked
parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in accordance with law.
(’77 Code, § 701.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.03 NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets or
portions of streets as no parking, stopping or standing zones and may limit the
hours in which the restrictions apply. The City Engineer shall mark, by
appropriate signs, each zone so designated. Except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or a traffic control device, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in
an established no stopping or standing zone when stopping or standing is
prohibited.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked in a no-parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited, except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in a
zone for the purpose of forming a funeral procession and a truck may be parked
temporarily between the hours as specified on the sign of any business day for
the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the premises is not
otherwise available.
(’77 Code, § 701.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain areas where the right
to park is limited during hours specified. The City Engineer shall mark, by
appropriate signs, each zone so designated. During the hours specified on the
sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer
period than is so specified.
(’77 Code, § 701.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 TRUCK ZONES; LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain
areas as truck loading zones or truck zones. The Utilities Superintendent shall
mark, by appropriate signs, each zone so designated.
   (B)   Truck zone prohibitions. During truck zone hours, no person shall
stop, stand or park any vehicle, except a truck, in a truck zone. No person
shall stop, stand or park a truck in a truck zone during truck zone hours,
except to receive or discharge passengers or freight and then only for a period
no longer than is necessary for the purpose.
   (C)   Loading zone prohibitions. During loading zone hours, no person shall
stop, stand or park any vehicle in a loading zone, except to receive or
discharge passengers or freight and then only for a period no longer than is
necessary for the purpose. No person shall occupy a loading zone with a vehicle
other than a truck for more than five minutes during the hours.
   (D)   Property owner initiative. Any person desiring the establishment of a
loading zone or truck zone abutting premises occupied by him or her shall make
a written application therefor to the City Council. If the Council grants the
request, the proper city officer shall bill the applicant for the estimated
cost of placing signs and of painting the curb. When the amount is paid to the
City Clerk/ Treasurer/Administrator, the Chief of Police shall install the
necessary signs and paint the curb.
   (E)   Semi-trailer parking. No person shall allow a semi-trailer to stand or
be parked unattached from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street
in the city, except in an emergency in order to change tractors.
   (F)   No truck parking zones. The Council may by resolution establish “No
Truck Parking” zones in the business district and the City Engineer shall mark,
by appropriate signs, any zones so established in the business district where
heavy traffic by trucks or other traffic congestion makes parking by trucks a
hazard to the safety of vehicles or pedestrians.
(’77 Code, § 701.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   (A)   Designation. The City Council by resolution may designate spaces on
streets in the city where vehicles engaged in carrying passengers for hire
shall stand or park. The Chief of Police shall mark, by appropriate sign, any
bus stop or taxi stand so established.
   (B)   Parking restrictions. Except for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers, no driver of any vehicle other than a bus shall stand or park at a
bus stop and no driver of any vehicle other than a taxicab shall stand or park
in a taxi stand.
   (C)   Bus and taxi parking. No driver of any bus shall stand or park the bus
upon any street, except at a bus stop. Except for the purposes of loading or
unloading passengers or for a reasonable time while on personal errands, no
driver of any taxicab shall stand or park upon any street, except at a taxi
stand.
(’77 Code, § 701.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.07 WINTER PARKING; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle or permit it to stand on any
right-of-way or city property between the hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. between
November 1 and April 30, for the purpose of snow plowing.
(’77 Code, § 701.10) (Res. passed 11-11-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.08 REMOVING KEYS WHILE PARKED.
   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a truck which is engaged in
loading or unloading, unattended on any street, used car lot or unattended
parking lot without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition and
removing all ignition keys from the vehicle. Whenever any police officer finds
any motor vehicle standing in violation of this provision, he or she shall
remove the keys from the vehicle and deliver them to police headquarters.
(’77 Code, § 701.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.09 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage or
other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street improvement or
maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until the fees for
towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or
parking in violation of this chapter is a prima facie evidence that the
registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the
violation.
(’77 Code, § 701.07)
§ 71.10 TRUCK PARKING REGULATIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Truck-tractor and/or semi-trailer parking. Any nonessential truck-
tractor or semi-trailer traffic over four tons shall be banned on a seasonal
basis from any residential street so posted, and that any parking of semi-
tractor or trailers or other vehicles exceeding the weight limit in residential
areas serviced by those posted streets is also prohibited.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person violating this section is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a maximum amount of $200. Each violation, and every
day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 71.10, passed 5-14-07)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   RESERVED
   
91.   ANIMALS
   
92.   NUISANCES
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   FIREWORKS
   
95.   FALSE ALARMS
CHAPTER 90: RESERVED
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Dogs
   
91.03   Non-domestic animals
   
91.04   Farm animals
   
91.05   Impounding
   
91.06   Kennels
   
91.07   Nuisances
   
91.08   Seizure of animals
   
91.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
91.10   Diseased animals
   
91.11   Dangerous animals
   
91.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
91.13   Basic care
   
91.14   Breeding moratorium
   
91.15   Enforcing officer
   
91.16   Pound
   
91.17   Interference with officers
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, FARM
ANIMALS shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators;
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator in accordance with the regular license
requirement if the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any
maintenance costs incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release
fee shall be as established by resolution of the Council as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.02 DOGS.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator upon
payment of the license fee as established by Council resolution as may be
amended from time to time. The owner shall state, at the time application is
made for the license and upon forms provided, his or her name and address and
the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept by him or her. No
license shall be granted for a dog that has not been vaccinated against
distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a veterinarian qualified
to practice in the state in which the dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator the license fee established by
Council resolution as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by Council
resolution as may be amended from time to time, the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag
for each dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it
is issued and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate.
Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the
license tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn. In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be
issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator. A charge shall be made for
each duplicate tag in an amount established by Council resolution as it may be
amended from time to time. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to
another and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee or tag because of
death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of the
license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (A) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show, nor
shall this provision apply to "seeing eye" dogs properly trained to assist
blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from place to place.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator from
all dog licenses and metallic tags fees as established by Council resolution as
may be amended from time to time, shall first be used to defray any costs
incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including, but not restricted
to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and maintenance of the
dogs.
   (B)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs kept harbored, maintained, or transported within the city
shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed veterinarian
for:
         (a)   Rabies — with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator, the Animal Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall
present for examination the required certificate of vaccination for the animal.
In cases where certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the
animal shall have seven days in which to present the certificate to the City
Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator or officer. Failure to do so shall be deemed a
violation of this section.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. In case the owner is unknown, the officer shall post notice
at the city office that if the dog or other animal is not claimed within the
time specified in division (C) of this section, it will be sold or otherwise
disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful
to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs
running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
91.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
91.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while the animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to time, and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may sell the animal to the
University of Minnesota, or cause the animal to be destroyed in a proper and
humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains thereof. Any money
collected under this section shall be payable to the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs or three or
more cats on the same premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for
whatever purpose kept, shall constitute a "kennel"; except that a fresh litter
of pups may be kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be
deemed to be a "kennel."
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs or
three or more cats on the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing
discomfort to persons in the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general
aesthetic depreciation, the keeping of three or more dogs or three or more cats
on the premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and no person shall keep or
maintain a kennel within the city.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
91.05.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
91.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
91.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
91.01;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
dog and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or
officer may apprehend the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement
under §
91.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
91.05(C).
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner's home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen
or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼ inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches;
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1);
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the orders issued will stand or the Animal
Control Officer may order the animal destroyed.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator's office shall be admissible for consideration by the
Animal Control Officer without further foundation. After considering all
evidence pertaining to the temperament of the animal, the City Council shall
make an order as it deems proper. The City Council may order that the Animal
Control Officer take the animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is
not currently in custody. If the animal is ordered into custody for
destruction, the owner shall immediately make the animal available to the
Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
91.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed
six feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of
age or older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Animal Control Officer;
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. The Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
91.12(B), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
91.12(B) is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
91.11 (F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
91.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
91.11(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
91.12(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
91.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or other enclosure
in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog except for planned
breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the animal, every dog shall be
neutered or spayed prior to being transferred to a new owner.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an Animal Control Officer to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
§ 91.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs or other animals and convey them
to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any unauthorized person
break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or attempt to take from any
agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance with this chapter, or in
any other manner to interfere with or hinder the officer in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
91.02,
91.07,
91.13 and
91.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 91, passed 3-11-24)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
92.01   Public nuisance prohibition
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Noise violations
   
92.06   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.07   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.08   Domestic animals
   
92.09   Duties of city officers
   
92.10   Abatement procedure
   
92.11   Recovery of cost
   
92.12   Public nuisances penalty
Open Burning
   
92.60   Purpose
   
92.61   Definitions
   
92.62   Prohibited materials
   
92.63   Permit required for open burning
   
92.64   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
92.65   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
92.66   Permit process for open burning
   
92.67   Permit holder responsibility
   
92.68   Revocation of open burning permit
   
92.69   Denial of open burning permit
   
92.70   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
92.71   Rules adopted by reference
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see §
31.01 through
31.07
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For purpose of this subchapter, a person that does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this subchapter to
be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2 malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow (three inches or more) and ice that is not removed from
public sidewalks within 24 hours after the snow or other precipitation causing
the condition has ceased to fall.
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection.
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk, street and alleys as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or
vehicles.
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure, or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties.
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations.
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this subchapter or other applicable law.
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner.
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk.
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by subchapter.
   (J)   The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk.
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public.
   (L)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties.
   (M)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or other
safety hazards from such accumulation.
   (N)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located.
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials.
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance.
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse in public on a public right-of-way
or on adjacent private or public property.
   (R)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
   (S)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.05 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public health, safety,
peace, or welfare:
   (A)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property's value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this subchapter). PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected
by a person using their unaided hearing faculties.
   (B)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules. Chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this subchapter by reference.
   (C)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create loud
and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
   (D)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motorboat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
   (E)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking of
any vehicle.
   (F)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any radio
receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging system,
machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly
and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any
person nearby.
   (G)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn mower,
power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or other
similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:
00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any
weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
   (H)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse in
any residential district, except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend
or holiday.
   (I)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
   (J)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The operation of
any device referred to in division (F) between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line of the
structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (K)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.06 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on all
properties of large numbers of vehicles, materials, supplies, or equipment not
customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the requirements set
forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of city streets for public parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential or in the
Central Business District, unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover
or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
areas must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
         (d)   No shipping containers will be allowed. Temporary use of
shipping containers will be allowed when used in conjunction with an active
land use permit, but no longer than 365 days. No extensions will be allowed.
NOTE: Some areas of the city may have private development covenants that may
prohibit their use, even temporarily. Please check your property documents for
covenants prior to using shipping containers.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.07 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store,
or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition, partially
dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement
parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any
kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the state,
pursuant to M.S. § 1688.011, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster a complaint from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.08 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom
including, but not limited to, cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine,
ponies, ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens, dogs, cats and feathered
fowl. ANIMALS shall be classified as follows:
         (a)   DOMESTIC. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
         (b)   NON-DOMESTIC. Those animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
            1.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding accepted
domesticated house cats.
            2.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family
canidae) including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
commonly accepted domesticated dogs.
            3.   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a
dog or a coyote and a dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a
domesticated house pet.
            4.   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any
skunk, raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those otherwise defined or
commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
            5.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families, including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators.
            6.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but
which can be reasonably defined by these definitions, including, but not
limited to: bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
direct control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. These terms shall be
synonymous with the definitions of DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG
and apply to any animal.
      DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. These terms have the same
meanings as defined by M.S. § 347.50, included herein or as amended from time
to time.
         (a)   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has, without provocation:
            1.   Inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human being on public
or private property;
            2.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner's property; or
            3.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner
has notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
            1.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal
on public or private property;
            2.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
            3.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      DOG KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, boat or vehicle wherein
dogs are kept, congregated or confined.
      ENFORCING OFFICER. The Council is hereby authorized to appoint city
personnel, in addition to law enforcement officers, to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter. In the appointed personnel or law enforcement officer's
duty of enforcing the provisions of the subchapter, he or she may from time to
time, with the consent of the City Council, designate assistants.
      FARM ANIMAL. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the following families: equestrian (horses, mules); bovine
(cows, bulls); sheep; poultry (chickens, turkeys); fowl (duck, geese); swine
(including pot-bellied pigs); goats; bees; and other animals associated with a
farm, ranch or stables.
      OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, feeds, boards, keeps or otherwise
possesses an animal and is presumed to be the owner or tenant of the residence
real estate at which the animal is normally kept, remains, or to which the
animal returns; or the owner or manager in charge of the establishment or
premises at which the animal is kept, remains or to which it returns. Any
parent or guardian of any non-emancipated minor owner under the age of 18 years
of age shall be presumed to be the actual owner of the animal and the
responsible party for the animal's care, control, licensing and action.
      PREMISES. Any building, structure, shelter or land whereon dogs or other
animals are kept or confined.
      UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal on the premises of the owner or person
harboring and keeping the animal and the owner or person harboring and keeping
the animal must be outside with the animal and have the animal in sight and
under control while the animal is loose on the premises. The animal is
considered to be UNDER RESTRAINT if the animal is within a private motor
vehicle or the animal is controlled by a leash, not to exceed ten feet in
length. This provision also applies to an animal within a fenced in area on the
owner's premises.
   (B)   Number allowed.
      (1)   No household within the city shall own or possess more than three
adult dogs or three adult cats. An adult dog or cat shall be any dog or cat
over the age of six months.
      (2)   (a)   Exception. Any resident or household that has more than the
number of cats allowable under this division (B), or more dogs and cats than
the allowable combined limit under this division (B), shall be able to retain
all animals properly licensed as of the date the subchapter is approved until
which time the animal is no longer alive or residing at the property. At that
time, the resident or household will become subject to the number of dogs and
cats allowable herein.
         (b)   In the event a resident or household has more than the number of
dogs or cats, or more than the combined limit, at the time this subchapter is
approved and one or more of the animals is not properly licensed, the owner
shall have 90 days from the enactment of the subchapter to either surrender or
re-home the animal(s) humanely in order to comply with the limitations herein,
or, contact the City Council, via an agenda request form available from the
City Clerk, to request an exception for animals owned prior to the time of
enactment. In order for the Council to consider approval of such a request, the
owner must come into compliance with all other provisions of this subchapter
including payment of all applicable fees and penalties.
      (3)   The keeping of farm animals will be allowed in accordance with
Chapter 151 of this code.
   (C)   Impounding.
      (1)   Any animal declared a public nuisance may be subject to impound by
any enforcing officer as appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   Notice to owner and redemption. The owner shall be notified within
a reasonable time after the impound of any animal. The owner of any animal so
impounded may reclaim the animal upon payment of applicable impound fees (as
described below) as well as the license fee (if unlicensed) and late licensing
penalties, if applicable.
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, a written notice shall be posted for five
days at City Hall describing the animal and the place and time it was found.
The notice shall also state the time and date on which the five-day redemption
period shall expire. All rights of ownership shall strictly expire and be null
and void for all animals unclaimed by the owner at the expiration of the five-
day redemption period.
      (4)   Impound fee. Impound fees will be determined from time to time by
the City Council. The fee will increase with each additional impoundment of the
same animal in a calendar year. Additional charges for maintenance and keeping
of the animal, as well as the cost of any needed rabies inoculation, shall be
due and payable prior to the release of the animal.
      (5)   Permissible return of unrestrained animals. If an animal is found
unrestrained and its owner can be identified and located, such animal need not
be impounded but may, instead, be taken to the owner. In such cases, however,
proceedings may be taken against the owner for violation of this subchapter.
      (6)   Immobilization. For the purposes of enforcement, any enforcement
officer or law enforcement officer or assistant may use a so-called
tranquilizer gun or other instrument for the purpose of immobilizing a dog or
any other animal when the animal is a threat to the health, safety, or general
welfare of any member of the public.
      (7)   Bites. Whenever the owner of any animal learns that the animal has
bitten a human being, the owner shall immediately provide for impoundment of
the animal for a period of ten days. The animal shall be kept apart from other
animals until it is determined whether the animal has or has had rabies.
Impounding may be by the owner if the animal has a current rabies vaccination
at the time the bite occurred and if approved by the Police Department. If the
animal did not have a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite occurred,
the animal shall be impounded at the city or by a licensed veterinarian. In
either case, impounding shall be at the owner's expense.
      (8)   Rabies. Any animal found to have rabies shall be handled pursuant
to the shelter/humane society/veterinary hospital's rules and regulations.
   (D)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   Implied consent. Any owner of an animal shall be deemed to have
given implied consent to entry on his or her premises by animal control officer
or a police officer for the purpose of enforcing this subchapter.
      (2)   Cruelty. In accordance with M.S. § 343.21, no owner shall fail to
provide animals with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper
shelter and protection from the weather, and veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering. No owner shall fail to provide humane care and treatment to
animals. No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse any animal, or cause or permit any fight or other combat
between animals and humans.
      (3)   Abandonment. In accordance with M.S. § 343.21, no person shall
abandon any animal.
      (4)   Exception. Any person relinquishing ownership to a shelter, humane
society or veterinary hospital shall not be considered in violation.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.09 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this subchapter
relating to public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer or
other designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.10 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever the peace officer or other designated official
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the city, the official shall notify in writing the owner of record and
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
official shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the
City Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant and an opportunity to
be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation is
a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving
a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement
or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place, and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record and
occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered mail.
If the premise is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or if the owner
of record or occupant refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall
be served by posting it on the premises.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice requirements
as set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the peace officer or other designated official shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the city and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety, or welfare. The officer or designated official shall notify in writing
the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether
public health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this
section and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If
the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under §
92.04(D), the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.11 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Administrator or other
city official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Administrator
shall, on or before December 1 or as determined by the County Auditor.
Following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with
all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against
the property under that statute and any other pertinent statutes for
certification to the county auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
§ 92.12 PUBLIC NUISANCES PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this subchapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution
in either case.
(Ord. 90, passed 6-12-23)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish permitted categories of open
burn events for residences and farms within the city and provide for a
permitting process for residential and agricultural open burning, except when
the open burning is defined as a recreational fire, as prescribed in this
subchapter.
§ 92.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a recreational fire, as defined herein.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a recreational fire site using
dry, clean wood, producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line, conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times, for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes, extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion, and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. Mobile cooking devices such as manufactured
hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or natural gas devices are
not defined as RECREATIONAL FIRES. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is
allowed on any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter
circle, measured from the inside of the fire ring or border, completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either
of natural rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only and which
area is depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE, as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 92.62 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.63 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire, as defined in § 92.61.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.64 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of a fire health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, land spreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only be issued by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.65 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshal for reviewing and processing the
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require a fee. Permit fees shall be set
annually by City Council resolution. However, the City Council may at other
times amend its resolution setting the fee as it deems necessary. The fee
established by City Council resolution shall continue to be the required fee
until amended by a resolution.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.66 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshal shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 92.67 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event safety plan, as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.68 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to, a fire hazard existing
or developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the
permit being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance
conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with
no flame present.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.69 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 92.70 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.71 RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as it may be amended from time to
time, and the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
93.01   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.02   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
93.03   Permit requirement
   
93.04   Permit applications
   
93.05   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.06   Permit fees
   
93.07   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.08   Supplementary applications
   
93.09   Denial of permit
   
93.10   Installation requirements
   
93.11   Inspection
   
93.12   Work done without a permit
   
93.13   Supplementary notification
   
93.14   Revocation of permits
   
93.15   Mapping data; information required
   
93.16   Location of facilities
   
93.17   Damage to other facilities
   
93.18   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.19   Indemnification and liability
   
93.20   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
93.21   Appeal
   
93.22   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Local Improvements
   
93.35   Petitions; time restrictions
   
93.36   Branch service lines
   
93.37   Government aid
   
93.38   Partial prepayment and certification of assessments
   
93.39   Permanent Improvement Revolving Loan Fund
   
93.40   Improvement bonds
Cross-reference:
   Water and Sewers, see
Chapter 50
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this subchapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minnesota Rules Chapter 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is
hereby adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in
full. The definitions included in Minnesota Rules part 7819.0100 subparts 1
through 23, as it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the
terms used in the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 93.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right- of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of- way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minnesota Rules part 7819.1000
subpart 3, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division
(B) of this section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for
unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or
restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to time by
Council resolution as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers’ compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State;
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by Council resolution as may be amended
from time to time, estimated restoration costs and other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by Council
resolution as may be amended from time to time, if applicable.
§ 93.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 93.06 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established by Council resolution as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to time,
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to
time, and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow the applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by Council resolution as
may be amended from time to time, that were paid for a permit that the Director
has revoked for a breach as stated in § 93.14 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minnesota Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Rules part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minnesota Rules part 7819.1100, as it may
be amended from time to time. The Director shall have the authority to
prescribe the manner and extent of the restoration, and may do so in written
procedures of general application or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Director shall correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to time. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 93.08 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 93.09 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 93.10 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota
Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other
applicable local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S.
§§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minnesota Rules part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to § 93.14.
§ 93.12 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.  
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for the actions
it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
§ 93.13 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 93.14 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to § 93.11.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city
for the city’s reasonable costs, including restoration costs and the costs of
collection and reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 93.15 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minnesota Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as may be
amended from time to time.
§ 93.16 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minnesota Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Director
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of
the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 93.17 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way
which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant
caused during the city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 93.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minnesota Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.19 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this subchapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota Rules 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.20 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Director.
§ 93.21 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had a permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are
invalid, may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon
written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely
written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City
Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
§ 93.22 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 93.35 PETITIONS; TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   Petitions for construction of curb and gutter, asphalt surfacing and sewer
or water conduit shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administration on
or before April 1 of the year of requested construction.
(’77 Code, § 303.01)
§ 93.36 BRANCH SERVICE LINES.
   Water and sewer lines shall be installed from the main to the front of the
property to be served before any permanent street surfacing is constructed in
the street. If any property owner fails to put in the water and sewer service
lines within 30 days after notice from the City Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator,
the City Council shall proceed to have water and sewer installed. The costs of
installation shall be a charge against the property under M.S. § 444.075,
Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to time, and the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall certify unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection
as other taxes are collected.
(’77 Code, § 303.08)
§ 93.37 GOVERNMENT AID.
   If the city receives financial assistance from the federal government, the
state or the county to defray a portion of the cost of a street improvement
project, the aid shall be used first to reduce the share of the project cost
which would be met from general city funds.
(’77 Code, § 303.07)
§ 93.38 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT AND CERTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Partial prepayment. After the adoption by the City Council of the
assessment roll in any local improvement proceeding, the owner of any property
specially assessed in the proceeding may pay to the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator any portion of the assessment not less than $1,000. The remaining
unpaid balance shall be spread over the period of time established by the
Council for installment payment of the assessment.
(’77 Code, § 303.09)
   (B)   Certification of assessments. After the adoption of any special
assessment by the Council, the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall transmit a
certified duplicate of the assessment roll with each installment, including
interest, set forth separately to the County Auditor to be extended on the
property tax lists of the county.
(’77 Code, § 303.10)
§ 93.39 PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a permanent Improvement
Revolving Fund of the city to be held and administered by the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator separate and apart from all other funds of the city,
for the purpose of financing local improvements.
   (B)   Source of funds. The fund shall be a permanent fund of the city and
the money’s necessary for its maintenance shall be provided by taxation, by the
appropriation of available monies from other funds of the city, and/or by the
issuance and sale of permanent improvement revolving fund bonds of the city as
deemed necessary from time to time by the Council.
   (C)   Disposition of funds. Monies in the fund shall be used only as
directed by resolution of the Council for the purpose of advancing to local
improvement funds, the cost of improvements for which assessments are to be
levied. All monies so advanced to an improvement fund shall be restored as soon
as sufficient monies are received in the improvement fund, together with
interest at a rate fixed by the Council, during the time for which the monies
have been so furnished.
   (D)   Investment. Whenever there are monies in the fund not immediately
needed for local improvements, the monies shall be invested by the Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator under the direction of the Council in any securities
authorized for investment of municipal sinking funds by law.
   (E)   Transfer of surplus. When the fund accumulates encumbered monies in
excess of any amounts reasonably anticipated to be needed for local improvement
fund advances, the Council may, by resolution adopted by a four-fifths vote,
declare any part of the excess to be surplus and transfer it to the general
fund.
(’77 Code, § 303.11)
§ 93.40 IMPROVEMENT BONDS.
   Whenever the Council determines that it is necessary to borrow money under
M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time, for the financing of
any local improvement the cost of which is to be paid in whole or in part from
special assessments, the borrowing shall be affected by the issuance of
improvement bonds of the city under that chapter, for the payment of which
bonds and interest thereon the full faith and credit of the city shall be
irrevocably pledged.
(’77 Code, § 303.13)
CHAPTER 94: FIREWORKS
Section
   
94.01   License required
   
94.02   Application and fee
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Fire Marshal, see §
31.04
§ 94.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall use or explode any fireworks, as defined in M.S. § 624.20,
as it may be amended from time to time, without a license therefor.
(’77 Code, § 505.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.02 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Every application for a license shall be made in writing to the Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display.
The application shall be promptly referred to the Fire Marshal, who shall make
an investigation to determine whether the operator of the display is certified
by the State Fire Marshal, is competent and whether the display is of a
character and is to be so located, discharged or fired that it will not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person. The Fire Marshal shall report the
findings of this investigation to the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator and if the
Marshal reports that in his or her opinion, the operator is competent and that
the display as planned, will confirm to safety requirements, including the
rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal, the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall issue a license for the display.
(’77 Code, § 505.02)
   (B)   The license shall not be issued until a fee as may be established from
time to time by Council resolution is paid for each day of the display.
(’77 Code, § 505.03)
CHAPTER 95: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
95.01   Justification
   
95.02   Coverage
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Permit requirements and exceptions
   
95.05   Application for permit
   
95.06   Issuance of permits
   
95.07   Denial of permits
   
95.08   Suspension or revocation of permit
   
95.09   Appeal from denial, suspension, or revocation
   
95.10   Rules and regulations
   
95.11   Automatic dialing devices - interconnecting to primary trunk lines
   
95.12   Automatic dialing devices - intermediary services
   
95.13   Possession, display, and surrender of permits
   
95.14   Prohibitions
   
95.15   Responsibility
   
95.16   Disputes
   
95.17   Limitation of liability
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 JUSTIFICATION.
   The Menahga Police Department responds to a large number of false alarms
each year, a level which places intolerable burdens upon the time and resources
of the Police Department. These many false alarms also create an increased
level of risk on the safety of the responding officers and to the public as
well. Therefore, the justification of this chapter is to reduce the high level
of risk and expense by reducing the frequency of occurrence of these false
alarms.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.02 COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply to all types of alarms, including but not limited
to: radio-enhanced, direct line, central station, and automatically dialed
fire, intrusion, and robbery alarms.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, including an owner, corporate officer, or director,
whose duties include any of the following: selling, maintaining, leasing,
servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving, or installing on any
building, place, or premises, any police alarm system, central station system,
or burglar alarm system.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Shall include the business of selling, leasing, maintaining,
servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving, or installing, any police
alarm system.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A burglar alarm system, a central station system or a police
alarm system.
   ALARM USER. Any person as defined herein, using the services of a police
alarm system, a central station system, or a burglar alarm system.
   ANSWERING SERVICE. A telephone answering service which receives signals from
any alarm system and thereafter immediately relays the message by live voice to
the Communications Center of the Sheriff's Department.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. Refers to an automated alarm system which sends a
prerecorded voice message or coded signal indicating the existence of the
emergency situation which the alarm system is designed to detect.
   BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into an area protected by the system, but which system is not connected to a
police alarm or central station system.
   CENTRAL STATION. An office to which remote alarm and supervisory signaling
devices are connected, where operators supervise the circuits, and where guards
are maintained continuously to investigate signals.
   CENTRAL STATION SYSTEM. A system, in which the operation of electrical
protection circuits and devices are signaled automatically to, recorded in,
maintained, and supervised from, a central station having operators and
security personnel on duty at all times.
   DIRECT LINE. A telephone line leading directly from a central station to the
Communications Center of the Wadena Sheriff's Department that is used only to
report emergency signals on a person-to-person basis.
   EXCESSIVE ALARMS. Ten or more false alarms signaled by any police alarm
system within a calendar year.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, or the action(s) of the owner or lessee of
an alarm system, or its employees or agents, to which a police officer has been
dispatched, where an emergency situation does not exist. Such terminology does
not include alarms caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, lightning,
power failure, damage to power lines, or other such severe weather conditions.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other
entity.
   POLICE ALARM SYSTEM. Any device designated for the detection of an
unauthorized entry on premises or for alerting others of the commission of an
unlawful act, or both, and, when actuated, emits a sound or transmits a signal
or message, which system is connected to or monitored by the Wadena County
Sheriff's Department who dispatches for the Menahga Police Department.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE. Any telephone line leading directly into the
Communications Center of the Sheriff's Department that is for the purpose of
handling emergency calls on a person-to-person basis, and which is identified
as such by a specific number included among the emergency numbers listed in the
telephone directory issued by the telephone company(s) and covering the service
area(s) within the Menahga Police Department jurisdiction.
   PROPRIETARY SYSTEM. An alarm system sounding and/or recording alarm and
supervisory signals at a control center located within the protected premises,
the control center being under the supervision of the proprietor of the
protected premises. If a proprietary system includes a signal line connected
directly to the Sheriff's Department Communications Center, a central station,
or answering service, it thereby becomes an ALARM SYSTEM as defined in this
chapter.
   SPECIAL TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading directly into the
Communications Center of the Sheriff's Department and having a primary purpose
of handling emergency signals or messages originating, either directly or
through a central location, from automatic dialing devices.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.04 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   After being notified in writing of the alarm policy, all persons using an
alarm system, without first complying with the provisions of this chapter and
without first obtaining the proper permit as required by this chapter shall be
denied response to the alarm location by the Police Department. The provisions
of this chapter shall not be applicable to audible alarms affixed to motor
vehicles, as allowed by law, or to the City of Menahga, its officers, agents,
and employees, in their official capacity.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for permits required under this chapter shall be made to
the Chief of Police on forms provided by the Police Department. It shall be the
responsibility of the alarm user to obtain the permit required under this
chapter. It shall not be a defense to a violation of this chapter that the
owner of the premises or the owner, installer or security company that operates
and maintains the alarm system did not obtain a permit.
   (B)   Each permit shall be valid for a period of one calendar year and shall
expire on the last day of the month of December unless sooner revoked as
provided herein. Application for the next ensuing year may be filed with the
Chief of Police beginning 90 days before the first day of January.
   (C)   The application for an alarm user permit shall state the name,
address, and telephone number to the applicant's property serviced by a police
alarm system or by a central station system and the name, address, and
telephone number of the applicant's residence, if different. If the applicant's
police alarm system or central station system is serviced by an alarm business
the application shall include the name, address, and telephone number of such
business. Each alarm system must be inspected each year by qualified personnel,
the application shall state the name, address, telephone number, the date of
inspection, and a statement as to the condition of the system. The application
may include such other information as the Police Chief shall find necessary to
determine the qualifications of the applicant for such permit.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.06 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall approve or deny applications made pursuant
to this chapter within five working days of the receipt of the completed
application forms of the alarm user, if upon investigation; there shall appear
no reason to deny the permit as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Each alarm user shall maintain a current registration card with the
Police Department, containing his name, address, and telephone number, as well
as the name, address, and telephone number of a person or persons who can
render service to the alarm at any hour of the day or night (Each alarm user
shall immediately inform the Chief of Police of any and all changes in the
information on file with the Police Department regarding such permit).
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.07 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   An application for an alarm user permit shall be denied if the applicant
willfully falsifies any information on the application, or if the alarm system
fails to meet the qualifications of this chapter.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.08 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   An alarm user permit shall be revoked or suspended by the Chief of Police
for such period of time as decided, for any reason for which the granting of
such permit might be lawfully denied, or for a violation of any provision of
this chapter or of any rule or regulation made in implementation thereof, by
the Chief of Police under §
95.10.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.09 APPEAL FROM DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   Every applicant for or holder of an alarm user permit shall have the right
of appeal to the City Council upon a denial of such application; upon a
suspension or revocation of such permit; or a determination of additional
permit charges under §
95.99. All appeals must be made in writing within seven days of the date the
notice of denial suspension, revocation, or determination of additional permit
charges is served upon the alarm user. A signed, dated letter bearing the
signature and printed name, address, and telephone number the appellant shall
satisfy the requirement of a written appeal. The appeal will be heard at the
next regularly scheduled Council meeting which occurs not less than 14 days
following receipt by the City Clerk of the written appeal. All written appeals
must be served upon or mailed to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The rules and regulations prescribed by the Chief of Police will be
published and made available at the Police Department and/or City Hall.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may prescribe any of the following:
      (1)   Minimum standards for the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of
police alarm systems;
      (2)   Specific provisions relating to testing procedures; and
      (3)   Specific provisions relating to the skill and competency of the
applicant to be a permittee.
The Chief of Police is authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected, the
premises whereon the alarm system is located. The Chief of Police shall have
the power to make and enforce such reasonable rules and regulations as may be
necessary in the discretion of the Chief of Police to implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.11 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES - INTERCONNECTING TO PRIMARY TRUNK LINES.
   (A)   No automatic dialing devices shall be interconnected to a primary
trunk line after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter, all automatic
dialing devices interconnected to a primary trunk line shall be disconnected
therefrom. The alarm user of such device shall be responsible for having the
device disconnected within the 90 day time period prescribed herein.
   (C)   Hearing impaired persons, verified by a physicians order, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this section and may use direct dial, recorded
message alarms.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.12 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES - INTERMEDIARY SERVICES.
   (A)   Persons owning or leasing an automatic dialing device may have the
device interconnected to a telephone line transmitting directly to:
      (1)   A central station;
      (2)   A modified central station; or
      (3)   A licensed answering service.
   (B)   The relaying of messages by intermediary services to the Sheriff's
Department may be made over a special trunk line, at the discretion of the
Chief of Police.
   (C)   This section shall apply only to those automatic dialing services
interconnected to the Communications Center of the Sheriff's Department.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.13 POSSESSION, DISPLAY, AND SURRENDER OF PERMITS.
   The alarm business permit and alarm user permit must be conspicuously
displayed at the alarm location, and shall be displayed upon request by any
police officer. Any permit hereunder shall be surrendered to the Chief of
Police upon suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.14 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to activate any alarm system for the
purpose of summoning police, except in the event of what is reasonably believed
to be an unlawful act and/or unauthorized entry on premises. Whenever a police
alarm system has been designed and commonly understood to alert others of the
commission of a particular crime, it shall be unlawful for anyone to activate
such police alarm for the purpose of summoning police, except in the event of
what is reasonably believed to be such particular crime.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to install or use an alarm system which, upon
activation, emits a sound similar to sirens in use on emergency vehicles or for
civil defense.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.15 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Except for false alarms occurring in the first 30 days of operation of a new
alarm system, the alarm user and alarm business shall be subject to the
requirements and penalties provided herein for false alarms occurring in the
user's alarm system.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.16 DISPUTES.
   All disputes or questions arising under this chapter should be forwarded to
the Chief of Police, who shall investigate the matter and reach a final
conclusion thereon. A written, dated, and signed conclusion will be served/sent
to the alarm user and the appeal period shall commence on the date it is
received by the alarm user. Such final conclusion shall terminate the dispute
brought before the Chief of Police, subject to such right of appeal as afforded
herein.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.17 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The City of Menahga shall be under no duty or obligation to a permittee or
any other person hereunder, by reason of any provision of this chapter, or the
exercise of privileges of a permittee hereunder, including, but not limited to,
any defects in a police alarm system, or any delays in transmission or response
to any alarm.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any alarm user who maintains or has an alarm system which
signals a false alarm, or, if caused by the negligence of the owner or lessee
of an alarm system or of his agents or employees, shall be charged with an
administrative penalty fee for each false alarm in the excess of three per
license year. The penalty shall be $35 for the fourth false alarm and shall
increase by the sum of $15 up to $50 for each succeeding and subsequent false
alarm thereafter.
      (2)   If human action has caused five or more false alarms, the alarm
user and its agents or employees must undergo remedial training in the proper
operation of the alarm system and certify to the city that such remedial
training has been completed. Written certification will be required and
certification will be signed by the person administering the training.
      (3)   Any false alarms over ten per license year shall be considered
excessive and shall result in the suspension of the user's alarm permit, and
said Police Department shall no longer respond officers to the alarm location
until such time as the alarm system has been repaired, modified, or maintained
to remedy the problems with the system. This notice of suspension will be sent
to the alarm user by a written, dated notice of suspension signed by the Chief
of Police. The notice will state the effective date of the suspension.
      (4)   Penalties shall be payable within seven calendar days of
notification to avoid suspension of the alarm user's permit. If payment is not
received in the above prescribed time, and/or an appeal to the City Council is
not applied for. The Chief of Police shall inform the alarm user that their
alarm permit is suspended and the Police Department shall no longer respond
officers to the alarm location.
   (B)   The Menahga Police Department shall keep a record of all false alarms
received by the Department and the explanation for such false alarms. These
records shall be available for inspection by alarm users and alarm businesses.
   (C)   Within three working days of receiving written notice of any false
alarm, the alarm user shall submit, to the Menahga Police Department, a signed
statement stating the apparent cause of the false alarm and the measure(s)
taken to remedy the problem. If certain measures are to be taken to remedy the
problem(s), the statement shall state the amount of time necessary to remedy
the problem(s).
(Ord. 114, passed 3-8-04)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
   
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
   
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Transference prohibited
   
110.03   Revocation of license or permit
   
110.04   Denial of license or permit; appeal
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see §
92.08
   Fireworks, see
Chapter 94
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses and permits
granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall conduct any activity or use any property for which a
license or permit is required by law or this code without a currently valid
license or permit for the activity or use.
   (C)   Every application for a license shall be made to the Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator on a form he or she provides. It shall be accompanied by payment
to the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator of the prescribed fee. If, after
investigation, the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator is satisfied that all
requirements of law and this code have been met, he or she shall present the
application to the Council for action or, if the license or permit does not
require Council approval, the Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator shall issue the
license or permit.
(’77 Code, § 501.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02 TRANSFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No license issued by the city may be transferred from one person to another
without permission from the Council. When the Council permits the transfer of a
license, it may waive any residency requirement, but only for the required term
of the license.
(’77 Code, § 501.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.03 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Any license may be revoked by the Council for a violation of the section or
chapter under which it is issued. The revocation must follow any procedure
provided in the section or chapter in question.
(’77 Code, § 501.03)
§ 110.04 DENIAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; APPEAL.
   Any person who has made application which has been denied or not acted upon
within 30 days after the application may apply directly to the Council for a
license. The application to the Council shall contain the same information
required in the original application, plus any additional information that the
Council may require or that the applicant may feel is pertinent. The Council
may grant the license, after hearing if the requirements of this code are
substantially complied with, and in the opinion of the Council, granting the
license would be in the best interests of the public.
(’77 Code, § 501.04)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Regulations
   
111.01   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
Municipal Liquor Dispensary
   
111.15   State law adopted by reference
   
111.16   Dispensary established
   
111.17   Location and operation
   
111.18   Dispensary Fund created
   
111.19   Enforcement
Intoxicating Liquor Licenses
   
111.30   State law adopted by reference
   
111.31   License required
   
111.32   Application and fee
   
111.33   Investigations; issuance and transfer
   
111.34   Ineligibility
   
111.35   Conditions of license
   
111.36   Purchase and consumption
   
111.37   Suspension and revocation
3.2% Malt Liquor Licenses
   
111.50   Definitions
   
111.51   License required
   
111.52   Applications and fee
   
111.53   Council investigation; granting licenses
   
111.54   Ineligibility
   
111.55   Conditions of license
   
111.56   Restricted hours
   
111.57   Clubs; restriction
   
111.58   Purchase and consumption
   
111.59   Revocation of license
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 111.01 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license.
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR DISPENSARY
§ 111.15 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor in or by a Municipal Liquor Dispensary are adopted and
made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(’77 Code, § 602.01)
§ 111.16 DISPENSARY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Municipal Liquor Dispensary for the
on- and off-sale of intoxicating liquor. No liquor may be sold at retail
elsewhere in the city or by anyone not employed in the Dispensary.
   (B)   No person shall consume liquor in a public park, on a public street or
in any public place other than the Dispensary or in an establishment where the
consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
(’77 Code, § 602.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.17 LOCATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   The Dispensary shall be located at a suitable place in the city as the
Council determines, but no premises upon which taxes, assessments or other
public charges are delinquent shall be leased for Dispensary purposes.
   (B)   The Dispensary shall be in immediate charge of the liquor store
manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is fixed by the
Council. He or she shall furnish a surety bond to the municipality, conditioned
upon the faithful discharge of his or her duties, in a sum as the Council
specifies. The bond premium shall be paid by the city. The manager shall
operate the Dispensary under the Council’s direction and shall perform the
duties in connection with the Dispensary as may be imposed upon him or her by
the Council. He or she shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of
the Dispensary in full compliance with this subchapter and with the laws
relating to the sale of liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (C)   The Council shall also appoint additional employees as may be required
for the Dispensary and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including
the manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No
minor shall be employed in the Dispensary.
(’77 Code, § 602.03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.18 DISPENSARY FUND CREATED.
   (A)   (1)   A Municipal Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created in which
all revenues received from the operation of the Dispensary shall be deposited
and from which all ordinary operating expenses shall be paid. Any amounts as
may be necessary to borrow from the general fund of the city for initial costs
of rent, fixtures and stock or for operating expenses shall be reimbursed to
that fund out of the first available monies coming into the Dispensary fund
thereafter.
      (2)   Surpluses accumulating in the Dispensary fund may be transferred to
the general fund or to any other appropriate fund of the city by resolution of
the Council and expanded for municipal purpose.
   (B)   The handling of Municipal Liquor Dispensary receipts and disbursements
shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law for the receipts and
disbursements of the city funds generally.
   (C)   The Council shall provide as soon as possible following the close of
each fiscal year for an audit of the accounts of the Municipal Liquor
Dispensary for that fiscal year by the state auditor or a qualified public
accountant.
   (D)   No business other than the sale of a liquor shall be carried on in the
Dispensary, except the retail sale of cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco,
food, soft drinks and 3.2% malt liquor, both on-sale and off-sale.
(’77 Code, § 602.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter to search premises and seize evidence of law
violation and preserve the same as evidence against any person alleged to be
violating this subchapter and to prepare the necessary processes and papers
therefor.
(’77 Code, § 602.05)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 111.30 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, financial
responsibility of licensees and hours of sale and all other matters pertaining
to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor are
adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(’77 Code, § 601.01)
§ 111.31 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Temporary on-sale licenses. Subject to the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety, temporary on-sale licenses shall be issued only to clubs or
charitable, religious or other non-profit organizations in existence for at
least three years. A temporary license authorizes the on-sale of intoxicating
liquor in connection with a social event within the city sponsored by the
licensee and subject to restrictions imposed by the state liquor act.
(’77 Code, § 601.01)
§ 111.32 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Forms. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall
state the name of the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the
applicant’s character, with references as the Council may require, citizenship,
the type of license applied for, the business in connection with which the
proposed license will operate, and its location, whether the applicant is owner
and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been at that address
at that place and other information as the Council may require from time to
time. Every application shall also include a copy of each summons received by
the applicant under M.S. § 340A.802, as it may be amended from time to time,
during the preceding year. In addition to containing the information, the
application shall be in the form prescribed by the Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension and shall be verified and filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
      (2)   Liability insurance. Prior to the issuance of a liquor license, the
applicant shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator a liability
insurance policy in the amount of $50,000 coverage for one person and $100,000
coverage for more than one person and shall comply with the provisions of M.S.
§ 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, relating to liability
insurance policies. If a liability insurance policy is made subject to all the
conditions of a bond under that statute, the policy may be accepted by the
Council.
      (3)   Approval of security. The security offered under subsection (3)
shall be approved by the City Council and in the case of applicants for on-sale
wine licenses and off-sale licenses, by the State Commissioner of Public
Safety. Surety bonds and liability insurance policies shall be approved as to
form by the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having on
file with the city at all times effective security, as required in subsection
(3) above, is a cause for revocation of the license.
(’77 Code, § 601.02)
   (B)   (1)   Fees. The annual fee for a special club license shall be $100.
      (2)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator for payment in full of the
license fee and the fixed investigation fee required under § 111.33, if any.
All fees shall be paid into the general fund. If an application for a license
is rejected, the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall refund the amount paid as
the license fee.
      (3)   Term; pro rate fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of
one year, except that if the application is made during the license year, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with
any unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license
shall expire on the last day of December.
(’77 Code, § 601.04)
§ 111.33 INVESTIGATIONS; ISSUANCE AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 111.34 INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to any
person made ineligible for a license by state law.
(’77 Code, § 601.06)
   (B)   Places ineligible for license.  
      (1)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
      (2)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises on which
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city are delinquent and
unpaid.
      (3)   No license shall be granted within 300 feet of any school or within
300 feet of any church. In applying this restriction, the distance shall be
measured between the main front entrances of the two buildings, following the
route of ordinary pedestrian travel.
(’77 Code, § 601.07)
§ 111.35 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license is subject to the conditions in the following
subdivisions, all other provisions of this subchapter and of any other
applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any
employee on the licensed premises authorized to sell intoxicating liquor there
is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable to
all penalties provided by this subchapter and the law equally with the
employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer or
properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter, inspect and
search the premises of the licensee during business hours without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor dealer’s special
tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(’77 Code, § 601.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.36 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Liquor in unlicensed places. No person shall mix or prepare liquor for
consumption in any public place or place of business, unless it has a license
to sell liquor on-sale or a permit from the Commissioner of Public Safety under
M.S. § 340.119, as it may be amended from time to time, and no person shall
consume liquor in any place.
   (B)   Consumption in public places. No person shall consume liquor on a
public highway, public park or other public place.
(’77 Code, § 601.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.37 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
liquor license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing, pursuant to M.S. §§ 15.0418 to 15.0426, as may be
amended from time to time.
(’77 Code, § 601.10)
3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 111.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not more than 3.2% by weight.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR STORE. An establishment for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor,
cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco, beverages and soft drinks at retail.
(’77 Code, § 603.01)
§ 111.51 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the extent authorized by
law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale or otherwise, or keep or offer
for sale, any 3.2% malt liquor within the city without first having received a
license as hereinafter provided. Licenses shall be of three kinds: regular on-
sale, temporary on-sale and off-sale.
   (A)   Regular on-sale. Regular on-sale licenses shall be granted only to
bona fide clubs, 3.2% malt liquor stores, exclusive on-sale liquor stores,
restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption on the
premises. On-sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for
consumption on the premises only.
   (B)   Temporary on-sale. Temporary on-sale licenses shall be granted only to
bona fide clubs and charitable, religious and non-profit organizations for the
sale of 3.2% malt liquor for consumption on the premises only.
   (C)   Off-sale. Off-sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor
at retail, in the original package for consumption off the premises only.
(’77 Code, § 603.02)
§ 111.52 APPLICATIONS AND FEE.
   (A)   Every application for a license to sell 3.2% malt liquor shall be made
to the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator on a form supplied by the city and
containing information as the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator or the City Council
may require. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement in an
application.
(’77 Code, § 603.03)
   (B)   (1)   Payment required. Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator for
payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a
license, the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator shall refund the amount paid.
      (2)   Expiration; pro rata fees.
         (a)   Every license, except a temporary license, shall expire on the
last day of December in each year. Each license, except a temporary license,
shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when the license is granted, the license shall be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
         (b)   A temporary license shall be issued for a specific period in
which a special event to which the sale is incident is being held and the
period shall be stated on the license.
      (3)   Fees. The annual fee for a regular on-sale license, an off-sale
license and a temporary on- sale license shall be established by Council
resolution.
      (4)   Refunds. No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this
subchapter shall be refunded, except in the following instances upon
application to the Council within 30 days from the happening of the event.
There shall be refunded a pro rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period
of the license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed
business ceases not less than one month before expiration of the license
because of:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee’s illness;
         (c)   The licensee’s death; or
         (d)   A change in the legal status of the municipality, making it
unlawful for the licensed business to continue.
(’77 Code, § 603.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.53 COUNCIL INVESTIGATION; GRANTING LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and hearing. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation
and hearing, the Council shall grant or refuse the application in its
discretion.
   (B)   Transfers. Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and
shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only
for the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another place without the approval of the Council.
(’77 Code, § 603.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.54 INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person who:
      (1)Is under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Has, within five years prior to the application for a license, been
convicted of a felony, or of violating any law of this state or local ordinance
relating to the manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for sale or
distribution of intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor and cannot show
competent evidence under M.S. § 364.03, as it may be amended from time to time,
of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of a
3.2% malt liquor licensee;
      (3)   Is a manufacturer of 3.2% malt liquor or is interested in the
control of any place where 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured;
      (4)   Is a non-resident of the city;
      (5)   Is not of good moral character;
      (6)   Is, or during the period of this license becomes, the holder of a
federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating
liquor at any place, unless there has also been issued to him or her a local
license to sell intoxicating liquor at the place; or
      (7)Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued.
(’77 Code, § 603.06)
   (B)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for sale on any premises where a
licensee has been convicted of the violation of this subchapter, or of the
state 3.2% malt liquor or liquor law, or where any license hereunder has been
revoked for cause until one year has elapsed after the conviction or
revocation.
      (2)   No on-sale license shall be granted for a business or club which
has not been in regular operation and eligible to receive a license for at
least six months immediately preceding the application for a license.
(’77 Code, § 603.07)
§ 111.55 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following divisions, all other provisions of this subchapter and any applicable
ordinance of the city or state law.
   (B)   No 3.2% malt liquor shall be sold or served to any intoxicated person
or to any person under 21 years of age.
   (C)   No person under 21 years of age shall be permitted to consume 3.2%
malt liquor on the licensed premises, unless accompanied by his or her parent
or legal guardian.
   (D)   No person under 21 years of age shall be employed on the premises of a
3.2% malt liquor store.
   (E)   No gambling or any gambling device shall be permitted on any licensed
premises.
   (F)   No manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall have any
ownership of or interest in an establishment licensed to sell at retail.
Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.402(4), as it may be amended from time to time, no
retail licensee, manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt liquor shall be
parties to any exclusive purchase contract. No retail licensee shall receive
any benefits contrary to law from a manufacturer or wholesaler of 3.2% malt
liquor and no manufacturer or wholesaler shall confer any benefits contrary to
law upon a retail licensee.
   (G)   No licensee shall sell 3.2% malt liquor while holding or exhibiting in
the licensed premises, a federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp,
unless he or she is licensed under the laws of Minnesota to sell intoxicating
liquors.
   (H)   No licensee who is not also licensed to sell intoxicating liquor and
who does not hold a consumption or display permit shall sell or permit the
consumption and display or intoxicating liquors on the licensed premises or
serve any liquids for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor. The
presence of intoxicating liquors on the premises of a licensee shall be a prima
facie evidence of possession of intoxicating liquors for the purpose of sale;
and the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating
liquors shall be a prima facie evidence that intoxicating liquor is being
permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to this subchapter.
   (I)   Any peace officer may enter, inspect and search the premises of a
licensee during business hours without a search and seizure warrant and may
seize all intoxicating liquor found on the licensed premises in violation of
division (H) above.
   (J)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of sobriety and order.
(’77 Code, § 603.08)
§ 111.56 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   No sale of 3.2% malt liquor shall be made on any Sunday between the hours of
1 a.m. and 12 noon. No sale shall be made between the hours of 1 a.m. and 8
a.m. on any other day.
(’77 Code, § 603.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.57 CLUBS; RESTRICTION.
   No club shall sell 3.2% malt liquor, except to members and to guests in the
company of members.
(’77 Code, § 603.10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.58 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Age misrepresentation. No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for
the purpose of obtaining 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Inducing purchase. No person shall induce a minor to purchase or
procure 3.2% malt liquor.
   (C)   Procurement. No person other than the parent or legal guardian shall
procure 3.2% malt liquor for any minor.
   (D)   Possession. No minor shall have 3.2% malt liquor in his or her
possession with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
his or her parent or guardian.
   (E)   Consumption. No minor shall consume 3.2% malt liquor, unless in the
company of his or her parent or guardian in the household of his or her parent
or guardian.
   (F)   Prohibited locations. No 3.2% malt liquor shall be consumed in any
theater, recreation hall or center, dance hall, ball park or other place of
public gathering used for the purpose of entertainment, amusement or playing of
games.
   (G)   Consumption and display. No person shall consume or display any
intoxicating liquor on the premises of a licensee who is not also licensed to
sell intoxicating liquor or who does not hold a consumption and display permit.
(’77 Code, § 603.11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.59 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The violation of any provision or condition of this subchapter by a 3.2%
malt liquor licensee or his or her agent is grounds for revocation or
suspension of the license. The license of any person who holds
a federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp, without a license to sell
intoxicating liquors at the place, shall be revoked without notice and without
hearing. In all other cases, a license granted under this subchapter may be
revoked or suspended by the Council, in accordance with § 110.03.
(’77 Code, § 603.12)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Gambling
   
112.01   State law incorporated by reference
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application; fee and bond
   
112.04   Copies of reports
   
112.05   Revocation
Circuses, Shows and Exhibitions
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Application and fee
   
112.17   Deposit required
GAMBLING
§ 112.01 STATE LAW INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
are incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if fully set out
herein.
(’77 Code, § 509.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to the conduct of bingo and
other lawful gambling within the city, in addition to the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The unlicensed or unpermitted conduct of bingo or lawful gambling
within the city is prohibited. Any organization authorized by law to conduct
bingo or lawful gambling occasions may do so only after applying for and
receiving a license from the State Charitable Gambling Control Board after
approval
of the City Council or, if no state license is required, after applying for and
receiving a permit from the City Council as hereafter provided.
(’77 Code, § 509.02)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION; FEE AND BOND.
   (A)   Application. Those interested in conducting lawful gambling, which is
otherwise exempt from licensing under M.S. § 349.214, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall apply for a bingo or lawful gambling permit to the Council
upon forms prepared by the Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator for that purpose. The
application shall state where the games will be played and the dates and hours
for which permission to play the game is requested. The organization shall not
conduct lawful gambling at any place, date or time other than those specified
in the application. The application shall be verified by a duly authorized
officer of the organization and by the designated gambling manager. No
application shall be accepted by the city, unless accompanied by the required
investigation fee.
   (B)   Investigation fee. The Council by resolution may assess an
investigation fee up to $100 on organizations applying for or renewing a state
license or local permit to conduct lawful gambling in the city. State licenses
shall be for a term listed on the license. Permits shall expire upon the date
listed on the permit or 12 months after issuance.
   (C)   Fidelity bond. As a condition of permitting, the Council may require
the permit applicant to provide a fidelity bond in the sum of $10,000 in favor
of the organization. The bond shall be conditioned on the faithful performance
by the manager of his or her duties. The bond shall not be canceled, except on
30 days written notice to the city. The Council may, by unanimous vote, agree
to waive the fidelity bond requirement. If the waiver is granted, the permit
must be endorsed to indicate the action.
(’77 Code, § 509.02)
§ 112.04 COPIES OF REPORTS.
   All licenses shall furnish to the city, copies of any and all reports
required by law to be filed with the State Charitable Gambling Control Board.
All permittees shall furnish, at the request of the city, reports and records
on the operation of lawful gambling including, but not limited to, gross
receipts, expenses and profits.
(’77 Code, § 509.02)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION.
   No licensee or permittee shall have a vested right in any license or permit
issued hereunder, and permits issued hereunder may be revoked by the Council at
any time. Licenses and permits shall be
revoked upon a showing that the licensee or permittee violated or caused to be
violated, any provisions of this section, or of state law regulating the
licensing or conduct of lawful gambling. The license or permit shall also be
revoked in the event of any misrepresentation in the license or permit
application or any reports required of the licensee or permittee to be made.
(’77 Code, § 509.02)
CIRCUSES, SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, except a local school, lodge, society or charitable organization,
none of which are organized or maintained for profit, shall hold, promote,
advertise for or otherwise engage in offering or opening to the public a
circus, theatrical performance, amusement, show or exhibition without first
obtaining from the Council a license therefor. This requirement and the
provisions of §§ 112.15 to 112.17 apply only if the event is to occur on city
property.
(’77 Code, § 507.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.16 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Any person or persons desiring to engage in activities regulated under
this section shall make application for the license on a form furnished by the
City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator. The application shall set forth the name
and address of the person, persons, committee or organization which is to
conduct the regulated activity; state the nature of the activity for which the
license is sought. The application shall also contain other information as is
reasonably requested by the Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator. In the event the
license is issued, the same shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises at which the activity is conducted.
(’77 Code, § 507.03)
   (B)   The license fee shall be the sum as established from time to time by
Council resolution per year or $5 per day for each day that the activity is
conducted, offered or held open for the public, whichever is less.
(’77 Code, § 507.02)
§ 112.17 DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   As a condition for the issuance of a license, the applicant shall
deposit with the Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator, the sum as established from
time to time by Council resolution, dedicated to cleaning up and restoring the
area used to its state existing prior to the commencement of the activity
licensed. The
licensee shall have a period of 24 hours following the termination of the
activity within which to clean up and restore the area or premises. The Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator or other authorized personnel of the city may examine
the area to see if the conditions herein stated have been complied with. Upon
compliance, the Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator shall refund the deposit of
$100.
   (B)   The refusal of or failure by the licensee to comply with the
conditions of this section shall constitute a release of any claim to the
deposited sum by the licensee, and the sum shall thereafter be forfeited to the
city for the purposes of cleaning up and restoring the area or premises. Any
balance remaining thereafter shall be deemed liquidated damages forfeited to
the city for failure to comply with this section.
(’77 Code, § 507.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Permitting
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   Procedure
   
113.06   Duration
   
113.07   Permit exemptions
   
113.08   Ineligibility for permit
   
113.09   Suspension and revocation
   
113.10   Notice of revocation or suspension
   
113.11   Public hearing
   
113.12   Emergency
   
113.13   Appeals
   
113.14   Transferability
   
113.15   Registration
   
113.16   Prohibited activities
   
113.17   Exclusion by placard
   
113.18   Effective date
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§  113.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or otherwise
transporting. PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term “hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays, defined by state law,
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term "canvasser."
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and
delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property and
who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location permanently.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 113B, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.02 EXEMPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter the terms PEDDLER,
SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property, to a retailer of the
item(s) being sold by the wholesaler;
      (2)   The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route;
      (3)   Garage sales. A garage sale in residentially zoned districts of the
city can only be held for three consecutive days. No more than six garage sales
can be held at any one location during any 12 month period.
      (4)   Anyone conducting an auction as a properly permitted auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court ordered sale or persons selling
goods or wares related to the main business at the location; and
      (5)   Any person participating in a sponsored event in town, so long as
the person has registered with the event sponsor as an approved vendor.
   (B)   Exemption from the definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not
excuse any persons from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or local ordinance.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 113B, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.03 PERMITTING.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county if the county licenses
the business.
   (B)   City permit required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a permit from the city.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city permit to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Failure to meet the
required 14 day timeframe will result in a double fee. Applications for a
permit shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operation(s) owned,
managed, or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or
agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   And all business related telephone number(s) of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city;
      (12)   Any and all address(es) and telephone number(s) where the
applicant can be reached while conducting business within the city, including
the location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or Federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county permit;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided; and
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the city.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 113B, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.04 FEES.
   All applications for a permit under this chapter shall be accompanied by the
fee established in the city’s fee schedule, as adopted from time to time by a
resolution passed by the Council.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.05 PROCEDURE.
   Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of the permit fee, the
City Administrator, or the City Administrator's designee, shall within two
regular business days of receipt, issue the permit or inform the applicant of
the reasons for denial of the application. An application shall be determined
to be complete only if all required information is provided. If the
Administrator or designee determines that the application is incomplete, the
Clerk shall inform the applicant of the required necessary information which is
missing. The City Clerk shall inform the City Council, at its next regular
meeting date of applications received and permits issued or denied, in the
event of denial of the permit, the applicant will be notified in writing of the
denial and the reasons therefor and further be notified of his or her right to
appeal the denial by requesting a hearing within ten days of receiving notice
of rejection. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the City Clerk will
schedule the hearing within ten days. The hearing will be conducted by three
people including the Mayor or one of the Council whom the Mayor may designate,
the Director of the Park Rapids Area Chamber of Commerce and one other person
appointed by the Director of the Chamber of Commerce. The final decision of the
hearing body will be issued within five days, shall be in writing, and shall
state its findings. The decision of the three member body is viewed as the
city's final decision and shall be appealable by petitioning the Minnesota
Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.06 DURATION.
   An annual permit granted under this chapter shall be valid for one calendar
year from the date of issue. A seasonal permit granted under this chapter shall
be valid for no more than four months from the date of issue. All other permits
granted under this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated
on the permit.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.07 PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for any person who sells or attempts to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm by the person.
   (B)   No permit shall be required of any person going from house-to-house,
door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or type of place-to-place
when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's state or
Federal constitutional rights (i.e., freedom of speech, press, religion and the
like) except that this exemption may be lost if the person's exercise of
constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial activity.
   (C)   (1)   No permits shall be required for any person who sells or
attempts to sell, or take or attempt to take orders for any product or service
supplied to the person by a tax-exempt non-profit organization, the person
being a member of the organization, and the proceeds generated by the sales
becoming the property of the non-profit organization.
      (2)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the permitting requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.08 INELIGIBILITY FOR PERMIT.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a permit under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county permit;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure, to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application, for any violation of any Federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the permit is being sought in an
honest and legal manner or that will not adversely affect the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the city. These violations shall include, but
not be limited to, burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful
business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against
another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any permit issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is determined to have a bad business reputation.
Evidence of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the
existence of more than two complaints(s) against the applicant with the Better
Business Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or
consumer rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or four
complaints filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked at
the discretion of the City Clerk for violation of any of the following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the permitted activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a permit could have
been denied under §
113.08 of this chapter; and
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension or revocation of any permit issued for the purpose of
authorizing multiple persons to conduct business as a peddler or transient
merchants on behalf of the permittee, shall serve as a suspension or revocation
of each authorized person's authority to conduct business as a peddler or
transient merchant on behalf of the permittee whose permit is suspended or
revoked.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.10 NOTICE OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   Prior to revoking or suspending any permit issued under this chapter, the
city shall provide the permit holder with written notice of the alleged
violation(s) and inform the permittee of his or her right to a hearing on the
alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the permit application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the permit
application.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.11 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Upon receiving the notice provided in §
113.10, the permittee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular business
days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the
suspension or revocation.
   (B)   For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of request.
   (C)   Within three regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the permittee of its decision.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.12 EMERGENCY.
   If in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to the health or
safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a peddler or transient
merchant permitted under this chapter, the Council may immediately suspend the
person's permit and provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent public
hearing as prescribed in §
113.11 of this chapter.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.13 APPEALS.
   Any person whose permit is suspended or revoked under this chapter shall
have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.14 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person other
than the person to whom the permit was issued.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.15 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the permitting requirements of
this chapter under §
113.07, shall be required to register with the city. Registration shall be made
on the same form required for a permit application, but no fee shall be
required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City Clerk
shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as proof of the
registration. Certificates of registration shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.16 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. in the morning, or after 9:00
p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of permit or registration, and
identification, when requested, or using the permit or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a permit or certificate of registration to the
person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.17 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner, or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating, “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 113B, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon publication in the city’s official
newspaper.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation
for the purposes of this chapter. The city reserves the right to use its
administrative penalties ordinance in lieu of criminal penalties.
(Ord. 113, passed 6-9-14)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Weapons
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference of the
Wadena County Sheriff’s Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The
person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 9 p.m. and 6 a.m. on a night preceding a curricular school day,
and between the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. on all other nights or days,
official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. on a night preceding a curricular school day,
and 12 midnight and 6 a.m. on all other nights or days, official city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of such business trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating
in or traveling directly to or from an official activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the city, a civic organization, school, religious institution
or similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor and with the
permission of the minor’s parent, guardian or other adult person having the
primary care and custody of the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section apply.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except a police officer in the performance of duty,
shall, within the city, discharge any gun, pistol or firearm of any description
or carry any weapon, unless it is dismounted or broken apart or carried in a
case in a manner that it cannot be discharged.
      (2)   This subdivision does not prevent the carrying of a handgun within
the city under a permit subject to the restrictions imposed by law.
   (B)   No person shall use or discharge any air rifle or sling shot within
the city.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of any person under the age
of 18 years knowingly to permit the person to violate any provision of this
section.
(’77 Code, § 802.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in § 10.99.
   (B)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of § 130.01 may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of § 130.01 shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced up to the maximum penalty
authorized by state law for a misdemeanor.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
151.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Jurisdiction
   
150.04   Compliance
   
150.05   Conflict and higher standards
   
150.06   Definitions
Subdivision Procedures
   
150.20   Required approvals
   
150.21   Application procedure
   
150.22   Sketch plan meeting
   
150.23   Preliminary plat
   
150.24   Final plat
Design Standards
   
150.35   Streets; purpose and arrangement
   
150.36   Blocks
   
150.37   Service standards
   
150.38   Prohibited plans
   
150.39   Lot requirements
   
150.40   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
150.41   Required basic improvements
   
150.42   Small subdivision standards
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.55   Administration and acting authority
   
150.56   Building and zoning permits
   
150.57   Variances
   
150.58   Amendments
   
150.59   Fees
   
150.60   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Chapter of the City of
Menahga.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is hereby adopted in order:
   (A)   To safeguard the best interest of the city and to assist the
subdivider in coordinating his or her developing plans with the aims and
purposes of the city at large; and
   (B)   To provide for the orderly, economic and safe development of land
plats by providing uniform procedures.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.03 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
the acres within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.04 COMPLIANCE.
   After the adoption of this chapter, no lot in a subdivision shall be sold,
no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in a
subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision unless a
subdivision plat has been approved and recorded and until the improvements
recorded and required by the City Council, relative to the subdivision, have
been constructed or guaranteed as provided herein.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.05 CONFLICT AND HIGHER STANDARDS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any other
official regulations or ordinances of the city. Provided, however, that when
there is a difference between minimum standards
or dimensions herein and those contained in other official regulations or
ordinances of the city, the highest standards shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets or a combination of streets, exterior boundary lines of the subdivision
and/or bodies of water.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof, which may provide shelter or
enclosure of persons or animals, when the structure is divided by partition
walls. Without openings, each portion of the BUILDING so separated shall be
deemed a separate BUILDING.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The group of charts, maps and text that make up the
comprehensive long range plan of the city.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of the items as right-of-
way.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewers
or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision meeting all the requirements
of the city and in forms as required by Wadena County for the purpose of
recording.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel intended for building
development or for transfer of ownership.
   LOT OF RECORD. A platted lot or metes and bounds parcel which has been
recorded in the Office of the Wadena County Recorder of Deeds prior to adoption
of this chapter.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular, and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or
quasi-public corporation, private corporation or combination of any of them.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access, to be used by pedestrians and which may be used for
the installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a
foot for each 100 feet or horizontal distance measured at the center line of a
street.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to a manner
in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving the
physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   ROAD. See “Street.”
   SKETCH PLAN. An informal plan presented at the pre-application meeting held
by the Planning Commission to indicate preliminary lot lines and anticipated
street rights-of-way as well as any other information required by the
Commission.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a STREET, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, thoroughfare road, avenue, boulevard, lane or however
otherwise designated.
      (1)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Those that carry traffic from minor streets to
the major system of thoroughfares and highways, including the principal
entrance streets of residential districts, as shown on the comprehensive plan.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC STREETS. A minor street with only one outlet and having
an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movements.
      (3)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel and
adjacent to thoroughfares and highways, which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      (4)   MINOR STREETS. Those which are used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
      (5)    THOROUGHFARES or ARTERIAL STREETS. Those used primarily for heavy
traffic and serving as any arterial traffic way between the various districts
of the community, as shown on the comprehensive plan.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street right-of-way.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm or corporation undertaking the subdivision or re-
subdivision of a tract or parcel of land according to the requirements of this
chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
plat, registered land survey or by metes and bounds description, regardless of
how it is to be used. The following classes, however, shall be exempt:
      (1)   The division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels greater
than 2½ acres where no new streets, roads or other rights-of-way are involved.
      (2)   The division of a lot of record for the purpose of attachment to
contiguous lots, provided no residual plot is left.
   TANGENT. A straight line which is perpendicular to the radius of a curve
where a TANGENT meets a curve.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of the chapter where
it is determined that by reason of special and unusual circumstances relating
to a specific lot, that strict application of the chapter would cause an undue
or unnecessary hardship, or that strict conformity with the provisions of this
chapter would be unreasonable, impractical or unfeasible under the
circumstances.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street, road or highway center
line located between lines of different percentage of grades.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure from its lowest level to the sky, except as permitted in this
chapter. The YARD extends along the lot line at right angles to the lot line to
a depth or width specified in the setback regulations for the zoning district
in which the lot is located.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of the city.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
§ 150.20 REQUIRED APPROVALS.
   Before any plat shall have any validity, it shall have been approved by the
Planning Commission and the City Council and recorded in the Office of the
Recorder of Deeds of Wadena County.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.21 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Before any subdivision of land is proposed to be made, and before any
contract for sale of, or any offer to sell any lots in a subdivision or any
part thereof is made, and before any permit for the erection of a structure in
a proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdivider or his or her duly
authorized agent shall apply in writing for approval of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the following procedures.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.22 SKETCH PLAN MEETING.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit three copies of the sketch plan and any
protective covenants to the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer two copies of the sketch plan to
the Planning Commission and one copy to the City Council. If the proposed
subdivision fronts or has access to a state or federal trunk highway, the
Zoning Administrator shall require an extra copy and shall refer this copy to
the District Engineer or the Minnesota Highway Department for review as
required by the state law. If the proposed subdivision is within the shoreland
district, the Zoning Administrator shall require an extra copy and refer this
copy to the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   (C)   The subdivider or a duly authorized representative shall attend the
Commission meeting at which time the proposal is scheduled for consideration to
discuss the requirements which pertain to his or her subdivision.
   (D)   The Commission shall determine whether the plan conforms to design
standards set forth in this chapter, the zoning chapter and the comprehensive
plan. The Planning Commission shall make specific recommendations and comments
about this sketch plan to be incorporated by the applicant in the next
submission to the Commission.
   (E)   (1)   Data required for sketch plan at the pre-application meeting:
         (a)   Location map;
         (b)   Sketch plan of street and lot layout;
         (c)   Conformity with the subdivision chapter; and
         (d)   Conformity with the zoning chapter.
      (2)   No fee shall be required of the subdivider for the submission of
the sketch plan.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.23 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission and hearing.
      (1)   Within six months of the Planning Commission’s consideration of a
sketch plan, the subdivider shall submit to the Zoning Administrator ten copies
of a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision. The preliminary plat shall
be submitted two weeks prior to the next regular scheduled Commission meeting
and shall be accompanied by a fee of $10, plus $1 for each five lots, or
portion thereof. Failure to act with the above time limit shall invalidate an
approved sketch plan and require that it be resubmitted.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit copies of the preliminary
plat to the utility companies, the City Engineer and the District Engineer of
the Minnesota Highway Department, if the plat borders a federal, state or
state-aid highway. He or she shall submit copies to the County Engineer if the
subdivision has access points on a county road and shall submit two copies to
the Commissioner of Natural Resources if any part of the subdivision is within
the shoreland district.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall study the practicability of the
preliminary plat taking into consideration the requirements of the city and the
best use of the land being subdivided. Attention shall be given to the
arrangement, location and width of streets, their relation to the topography of
the land, water supply, sewage, a disposal drainage, lot sizes and arrangement,
the future development of adjoining lands as unsubdivided and the requirements
of the community development plan of the city.
      (4)   A public hearing/date shall be set to be held within 46 days of the
filing date. The required legal publications shall be made and notices shall be
sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of the
proposed plat. A Planning Commission meeting may serve as a public hearing
provided the legal requirements pertaining to the same are met.
      (5)   Upon completion of their review, the above mentioned offices or
agencies shall submit their comments on the proposed subdivision to the
Planning Commission. These comments will be read at the public hearing.
      (6)   At the public hearing, the subdivider and all interested persons
shall have the opportunity to be heard, upon completion of the hearing, the
Commission prepares and submits a report along with a copy of the preliminary
plat to the City Council. Upon receipt of the Commission’s reports, the City
Council reviews the report and preliminary plat. The Council may hold another
hearing or hearings, or take action to approve, disapprove or specify
conditions for approval of the plat.
   (B)Preliminary plat requirements.
      (1)   Site map, including land within 300 feet of plat boundary;
      (2)Existing and proposed streets;
      (3)   Existing utilities;
      (4)   Names of adjacent property owners, within 300 feet;
      (5)   Any easements to be platted;
      (6)   Existing and proposed zoning changes;
      (7)   Preliminary plat map, at a scale no smaller than 100 feet to an
inch;
      (8)   Name of subdivision, which must not duplicate or closely resemble
another plat;
      (9)   Location, section, township, and the like;
      (10)   Names and addresses of owners and subdividers;
      (11)   Names of surveyor and engineer;
      (12)   North arrow and scale;
      (13)   Block and lot numbers;
      (14)   Names, location and widths of streets proposed by the subdivision;
      (15)   Location and width of alleys, pedestrian ways and easements;
      (16)   Land to be dedicated or reserved for public access;
      (17)   Topography map with a minimum of one-foot contours; and
      (18)   Proposed restrictive covenants.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.24 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Unless an extension of time is requested by the subdivider and granted
by the Commission, the subdivider shall have one year, following approval of
the preliminary plat, to submit to the Zoning Administrator four paper prints
of the final plat, together with an up-to-date copy of the abstract of title by
the subdivider’s attorney.
   (B)   The final plat shall conform to all Minnesota platting regulations and
must be correctly surveyed. The Planning Commission shall state whether a final
plat conforms to the preliminary plat approved by the Commission, with the
recommended changes, if any.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the final plat, the Zoning Administrator shall refer
two copies to the Planning Commission, and other copies to the agencies as the
Commission may desire. Each person or agency above shall submit a report on the
final plat to the Zoning Administrator within 15 days or receipt of the final
plat.
   (D)   Upon completion of the requirements above and notation to the effect
upon the final plat, it shall be deemed to have final approval and shall be
signed by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission and the appropriate city
officials as required by Minnesota Statutes. The final plat shall then be filed
with the Wadena County Recorder of Deeds by the applicant. A final plat not
filed within 90 days of approval by the Planning Commission shall become null
and void unless the particular circumstances of the applicant warrant the
Commission to grant an extension which shall not exceed 180 days.
   (E)   No changes, erasures, modifications or revisions shall be made on any
final plat after approval by the Planning Commission and endorsed in writing on
the plat, unless the plat is resubmitted to the Commission for approval. In the
event that any plat is recorded without complying with the proper requirements,
the final plat shall become null and void and the Commission shall institute
proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records of the county.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 150.35 STREETS; PURPOSE AND ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Streets in the subdivision shall provide for the continuation
of existing streets of adjoining subdivisions and for the proper protection of
principal streets into adjoining properties which are not yet subdivided in
order to make possible necessary community services extensions.
   (B)   Street arrangement.
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way, road surface width and maximum street
grades for streets or pedestrian ways included in any subdivision shall not be
less than the minimum dimensions for the classification as follows:
 
Class                Right-of-Way Width Minimum Width of Maximum Street Grade
                                        Road Surface 
Collector street     80 feet            44 feet          5%
Minor or local       66 feet            36 feet          8%
street
Marginal service and 60 feet            24 feet          8%
access road
Alley                20 feet            16 feet          8%
Pedestrian way       10 feet            –              –
*    Except when, upon the recommendation of the City Engineer, the
topography warrants a
    greater maximum.
 
      (2)   Minor streets shall be arranged so their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (C)   Dead end streets. The creation of dead end or loop residential streets
will only be used where the Planning Commission finds this type of street
development will not interfere with normal traffic circulation in the area. All
dead end streets, if approved, must be provided with a cul-de-sac which has a
right-of-way radius of 50 feet.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.36 BLOCKS.
   Blocks shall not be less than 300 feet, nor more than 1,200 feet in length.
No block width shall be less than twice the normal lot depth, unless it abuts a
railroad right-of-way, a limited access highway, a major or arterial street, a
body of water or a park.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.37 SERVICE STANDARDS.
   When a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial or
major street, the Planning Commission may require marginal frontage streets, or
other treatments as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential
properties and to attend separation of through and local traffic.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.38 PROHIBITED PLANS.
   The following shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Half of partial streets;
   (B)   Private streets, unless part of an approved planned unit development,
in which case the streets shall conform to the approved design criteria of the
city; and
   (C)   Intersection with more than four corners.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.39 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radical to curved street lines, unless a variance from this
rule shall give a better street or lot plan.
   (B)   Lots with frontage on two parallel streets shall be permitted only
under unusual circumstances.
   (C)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added to
adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an unusable
out lot, unless the owner can show future plans for the remnants.
   (D)   Lots abutting upon a water course, drain way, channel, stream or water
hole shall have additional depth or width, to assure that home sites are not
subject to flooding.
   (E)   In the subdividing of any land, regard shall be shown for all natural
features, which if preserved, will add attractiveness to the proposed
development.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.40 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   No conveyance of land to which these regulations are applicable shall
be filed or recorded if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and
bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after the
effective date of this chapter. The foregoing provision shall not apply to a
conveyance if the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of land on record on the date of the adoption
of this chapter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to the date of the adoption of this chapter; or
      (3)   Is a single parcel of land of not less than 2½ acres and having a
width of not less than 300 feet.
   (B)   Only one division of land in which the tract is described by metes and
bounds shall be permitted. Any further division of the remaining land must be
by plat, duly approved and recorded in accordance with the laws and regulations
in the case made and provided. Any further conveyance of land by metes and
bounds description must be handled as a variance.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.41 REQUIRED BASIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Approval.
         (a)   Before a final plat may be approved by the City Council, the
owner shall execute and submit to the Council an agreement, which shall be
binding on his or her heirs, personal representatives and assigns, that he or
she shall cause no private construction on the land, except with approval of
the Planning Commission, until all improvements required under this chapter
have been petitioned for and have been constructed.
         (b)   No final plat shall be approved by the Council without first
receiving a report from the Planning Commission certifying that the
improvements described herein, together with the agreements and documents
required herein will meet the minimum requirements of all applicable
ordinances.
         (c)   A certified copy of the plat restrictions shall be filed with
the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator and Register of Deeds which shall
include a provision that, in all instruments of sale or conveyance given before
all street improvements have been made, the grantee shall agree to and approve
the improvements and the assessment of their cost.
      (2)   City financing. With the approval of the City Council, any or all
of the required improvements may be financed and assessed by the city, pursuant
to M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time. Length of
assessment period and rate of interest shall be as determined by the City
Council.
      (3)   Financing by developer. If deemed advisable and to be in the best
interests of the city, the City Council may require the developer to finance
and pay for any or all improvements. Prior to the making of the required
improvements, the owner or subdivider shall deposit with the City Clerk/
Treasurer/Administrator an amount equal to the City Engineer’s estimated cost
of any or all improvements which are to be financed by the developer, either in
cash or as indemnity bond, with sureties to the satisfaction of the city,
conditioned upon the payment of all construction cost incurred by the city in
the making of the improvements and all expense in connection with the making of
the improvements. All improvements shall be contracted through the city.
   (B)   Improvements. The following improvements shall be constructed as
provided for in this section. Plans and specifications of improvements shall be
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   City obligation. The city will construct, furnish and install, at
city expense, the following improvements to city specifications. Furnishing
these improvements shall be commensurate with available city funds for the work
and according to programs and priorities as established by the City Council. If
the developer would desire any of these improvements sooner than the city would
be able to furnish them, then the costs of the following improvements shall be
paid for by the developer.
         (a)    Street lighting. Street lighting shall be constructed by the
city, preferably after curbs and gutters have been installed. If additional or
other type of lighting is desired by the developer, he or she shall pay the
increased cost thereof.
         (b)   Signs. Street name signs and traffic control signs shall be
installed by the city.
      (2)   Obligation of developer. The developer shall pay the proportionate
amount of the following improvements on or for his or her subdivision or
development. The financing shall be according to division (A).
         (a)   Site grading. Necessary site grading shall be accomplished by
the subdivider.
         (b)   Street grading.
            1.   Streets shall be graded for the total width of the right-of-
way and to the elevations as established by the City Engineer prior to any site
grading or building construction. A minimum of four inches of granular base
material should be applied if required to stabilize the roadbed.
            2.   Temporary construction may, at the discretion of the Street
Superintendent, be required, for just cause, on any street, streets or portion
thereof. Reconstruction or alteration in any way of existing streets affected
by the plat or improvements thereupon shall be subject to the approval of the
Planning Commission. All costs therein incurred, for either temporary access or
reconstruction, shall be borne by the owner or subdivider.
         (c)   Sanitary sewer.
            1.   Where a sanitary sewer is or will be available at the boundary
of the subdivision, it shall be constructed in accordance with plans as
prepared by and under the supervision of the City Engineer. The cost of any
required pumping station, deemed necessary by the Engineer, shall be assessed
against the benefitting property.
            2.   Where it is neither practical nor economical for the city to
extend city sewer, private sewage disposal facilities shall be constructed
according to city and state specifications. Consideration shall be given to
future availability of a city sewer in the installations.
         (d)   Water main. Where city water is, or will be available at the
boundary of the subdivision, it shall be constructed in accordance with plans
as prepared by, and under the supervision of the City Engineer. Where it is
neither practical nor economical for the city to extend city water, private
water supplies shall be constructed according to city and state specifications.
         (e)   Storm sewer. Where a city storm sewer is, or will be available
at the boundary of the subdivision, it shall be constructed in accordance with
plans as prepared by and under the supervision of the City Engineer.
         (f)   Utility easements. The costs of any necessary utility easements
shall be borne by the contractor.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.42 SMALL SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   For purpose of conveying a title or securing building permits, the platting
procedures, design features and documents shall not apply to the division of
one or more lots platted into lots and blocks and designated in a subdivision
plat on file and of record in the Office of the County Registrar of Deeds into
one or more separately described tracts, nor shall the chapter apply to the
consolidation of two or more platted lots or platted lots or parts thereof into
one or more tracts, upon compliance with the following conditions:
   (A)   The owners or owner of the platted lot or lots to be so divided shall
file with the City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator a proposed survey plat by a
registered land surveyor of the lot or lots to be divided or consolidated. The
plat or survey shall show the dimensions of the lot as measured upon the
recorded plat, and also the proposed division thereof, a written description of
the separately described tract or tracts which will result from the proposed
subdivision or consolidation shall be filed with the plat or survey.
   (B)   The separately described tract of land to be conveyed or designated
for building permit purposes by reason of the subdivision or consolidation as
described upon the proposed plat, shall not be less than the minimum dimensions
required to secure the minimum lot areas specified in the zoning chapter.
   (C)   As a result of the division or consolidation as herein authorized, no
remaining part of an original subdivision lot shall become a separately
described lot upon the proposed plat with a size less than the minimum
dimensions required to secure the minimum lot area specified in the zoning
chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.55 ADMINISTRATION AND ACTING AUTHORITY.
   The city’s Zoning Administrator shall administer the provisions of this
chapter. All appeals applying to the terms of this chapter shall be made to the
City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.56 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement on any land henceforth
subdivided until all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied
with.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.57 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend a variance to this chapter to
the City Council from strict compliance with the chapter when extraordinary
hardships are imposed on the property owner. The variances shall not deter from
the public welfare or nullify the intent and purposes of the community
development plan or the zoning chapter.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission refuses to recommend a variation, the
subdivider may petition the Board of Adjustments and Appeals for a review of
the decision for application of variation.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Cross-reference
   Planning Commission, see §§
31.35 through
31.38
§ 150.58 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments shall be initiated by the Planning Commission as recommendations
to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public
hearing when an amendment to the subdivision chapter is being considered.
Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall report its findings and
recommendations to the City Council. The City Council shall hold public
hearings upon the amendment or any part thereof that they shall deem necessary.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Cross-reference
   Planning Commission, see §§
31.35 through
31.38
§ 150.59 FEES.
   The City Council may charge the fee schedule and method of collection for
subdividing.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
§ 150.60 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter,
the City Council or any member thereof, in addition to other remedies, may
institute proper action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
the violation or threatened violation, and it shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to institute the action.
   (B)   Any taxpayer or citizen of Menahga may institute mandamus proceedings
in district court to compel specific performance by the proper official or
officials of any duty required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Intent and purpose
   
151.03   Rules
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Districts established
   
151.06   Application of this chapter
   
151.07   Environmental documents and concurrent permits
   
151.08   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
151.09   Nonconforming lots
   
151.10   Building standards
   
151.11   Allowed uses
   
151.12   Uses allowed by state statute
   
151.13   Substantially similar uses
   
151.14   Use of accessory structures
   
151.15   Zoning district and district provisions
   
151.16   R-R, rural residential
   
151.17   R-1, one- or two-family residence
   
151.18   R-2, multiple-family residence
   
151.19   C-B, central business
   
151.20   C-1, commercial
   
151.21   C-2, highway commercial
   
151.22   I, industrial
   
151.23   S-D, shoreland overlay district
   
151.24   M-H, manufactured home residence; new
   
151.25   Manufactured homes standard
   
151.26   M-H, manufactured home residence; existing
   
151.27   Community use
   
151.28   Reserved
   
151.29   Reserved
   
151.30   Reserved
   
151.31   Reserved
   
151.32   Reserved
   
151.33   Reserved
   
151.34   Reserved
   
151.35   Reserved
   
151.36   Cannabis sales
   
151.37   Sign regulations
   
151.38   Fence regulations
   
151.39   Parking and loading
   
151.40   Drainage
   
151.41   Sheds, porches and accessory buildings
   
151.42   Solar energy systems
   
151.43   Storage containers
   
151.44   Planned unit developments
   
151.45   Extractive uses
   
151.46   Landfills
   
151.47   Bed and breakfasts
   
151.48   Proposed telecommunications towers
   
151.49   Auto salvage yards
   
151.50   Keeping of chickens
   
151.51   Keeping of horses
   
151.52   Keeping of farm animals
   
151.53   Recreational vehicles and camping
   
151.54   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU)
   
151.55   Commercial storage (mini storage)
   
151.56   Short-term rentals
   
151.57   Zoning Administrator
   
151.58   Conditional use permits (CUP)
   
151.59   Variances
   
151.60   Interim use permit (IUP)
   
151.61   Land use zoning permits
   
151.62   Fees
   
151.63   Financial requirements
   
151.64   Amendments
   
151.65   Procedure
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to and cited as the “Menahga Zoning
Ordinance,” except herein where it shall be cited as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is established pursuant to the authority granted by the
Minnesota Statutes, in particular the Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351
through 462.364, M.S. Chapter 379, and policies in M.S. Chapters 105, 115 and
116 and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
      (1)   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare;
      (2)   Promoting order in development by dividing the area of the city
into zones;
      (3)   Regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of the structures and land;
      (4)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
city, for the health of the public;
      (5)   Providing for adequate light, air, and access to property by
regulating the use of the land and buildings and the bulk of structures in
relation to surrounding properties;
      (6)   Providing for the administration of the provisions of the chapter
and defining the authority and duties of the Administrator, Planning
Commission, Board of Adjustment and City Council and this chapter.
      (7)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
city for the health and welfare of the public; and
      (8)   Inauguration and effectuating the goals of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. passed 12- -2024)
§ 151.03 RULES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the maintaining of the public health, safety, morals, and
welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than applicable provision of other laws, ordinances, statutes,
resolutions, covenants or regulations of any kind, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
   (C)   Except as this chapter specifically provides, with provision for
variances granted thereto, no structure shall be erected, converted to another
use, or enlarged, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in
any manner that does not conform with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12- -2024)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the language or context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended, the following words, terms, and phrases, for the purpose of this
chapter, shall have the meanings and inclusions subjoined to them:
   ACCESSORY FACILITY OR STRUCTURE. Relating to telecommunication facilities,
any facility or structure serving or being used by or in conjunction with
wireless telecommunication facilities or support structures, including but not
limited to, utility or transmission equipment, storage sheds or cabinets.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed as Zoning Administrator by the City
Council, as provided by this chapter.
   ADULT USE. The offering of merchandise or recreation, whether for sale or
rental or loan, characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” on a limited scale that are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
   AIRPORT or HELIPORT. Any land or structure, which is used or intended for
use, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any appurtenant land or
structure used or intended for use for port buildings or other port structures
or rights-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL. The background noise level prior to installing the wind
energy conversion system.
   ANIMALS.
      (1)   Domestic pets. Fish, dogs, cats, reptiles, birds, and similar
animals.
      (2)   Domestic farm animals. Cattle, hogs, horses, bees, sheep, goats,
chickens, and other commonly known farm animals.
   ANS/TIA/EIA. American National Standard; Telecommunication Industry
Association; Electronic Industrial Association.
   ANTENNA. Any structure, device or system of electrical conductors, that
transmit or receive electromagnetic waves for the provision of cellular,
paging, personal communications services (PCS) and microwave communications.
Such structures and devices include, but are not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes and satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennas, such as whips.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities available, which
is occupied as a residence by a single family and including buildings with
three or more dwelling units.
   AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where one or more
licensed motor vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for more than seven
days for the purpose of dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding,
sale of parts, sale as scrap, storage or abandonment.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. The general repairable building or reconditioning
of engines, motor vehicles or trailers, including bodywork, framework, welding
and major painting service.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. The replacement of any part or repair of any part
which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine,
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting
and upholstering service when said service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks not in excess of 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground and having one-
half or less of its floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied residence where, for compensation,
lodging and certain meals are provided to overnight guests.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality best management practices that are the most effective and practical
means of controlling, preventing and minimizing degradation of surface water
including avoidance of impacts, construction phasing, minimizing the length of
time soil areas are exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices
published by state or designated area-wide planning agencies. BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES referenced in this chapter are from the Minnesota Storm Water Manual
as amended from time to time, published by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment, having all
the following characteristics: (a) part or all of the feature is in a shoreland
area; (b) the slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high-water level
of the water body; (c) the grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a
point 25 feet or more above the ordinary high-water level averages 30% or
greater; and (d) the slope drains toward the water body.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 30 feet from the top of
the bluff.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a motel or hotel, where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings are
provided for three or more persons, but not to exceed eight persons.
   BUFFER STRIP. Land area used to visibly separate one use from another, or to
shield or block structures, noise, lights or other potential nuisances.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals or chattel. When said structure is divided by party walls,
without openings, each portion of such building so separated shall be deemed a
separate building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from: (a) the average elevation of
the adjoining ground level; or (b) the established grade adjacent to the
building, whichever is lower, to the top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the
deck line of a mansard roof, to a point of the roof directly above the highest
wall of a shed roof, to the uppermost point on a round or other arch type roof,
to the highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building. BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS include, but are not
limited to, active photovoltaic or hot water systems that are contained within
roofing materials, windows, walls, skylights, and awnings, or passive systems
that are designed to capture direct solar heat.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
   CANNABIS. As defined by the State of Minnesota.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
   CELLAR. That portion of a building having more than one-half of the floor to
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CHILD CARE, CENTER. A facility that is maintained, for the whole or part of
the day, for the care of five or more children who are 18 years of age or
younger and who are not related to the owner, operator or manager thereof,
whether such facility is operated with or without compensation for such care
and with or without stated educational purposes. The term shall not include any
facility licensed as a foster care home or any facility defined as a “child
care, family home.”
   CHILD CARE, FAMILY HOME. A primary residence where, for the whole or part of
the day, an owner of the residence, licensed as a childcare provider, cares for
five or more children who are 18 years of age or younger and who are not
related to the owner, whether such facility is operated with or without
compensation for such care.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained, and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of the premises being restricted to members and their
guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises,
providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available.
   COLOCATION. The act of siting telecommunications facilities in the same
location of the same support structure as other telecommunications facilities.
COLOCATION also means locating telecommunications facilities on an existing
structure (for example buildings, water tanks, towers, utility poles, etc.),
without the need to construct a new support structure.
   COLUMBARIUM (COLUMBARIA). An above-ground repository composed on niches
designed for the purpose of interring the cremains of the deceased.
   COLUMBARIUM INDIVIDUAL NICHE(S). An individual recess within a columbarium
designated to contain the cremains of one deceased within a single cremation
urn or container; or the cremains of two deceased within two cremation urns or
containers.
   COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT. An area where 15 or more animals per acre are fed solely
for purpose of wholesale or retail sale.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. Any premises where three or more dogs, at any one time,
over six months of age, boarded, bred or offered for sale.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, pool
hall, vehicle racing for amusement, dance hall, skating, theater, firearms
range and similar uses.
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (CWECS). A wind energy conversion
system with a total nameplate generating capacity no less than 40 kilowatts but
no greater than 100 kilowatts.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN. A solar energy system that provides retail electric
power (or a financial proxy for retail power) to multiple community members or
businesses residing or located off-site from the location of the solar energy
system, consistent with M.S. § 216B.1641 or successor statute. A COMMUNITY
SOLAR GARDEN may be either an accessory or a principal use.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Unless otherwise stated, the general plan for land use,
transportation and community facilities prepared and maintained by the Planning
Commission.
   CONDITIONAL USE. The occupations, vocations, skills, arts, businesses,
professions or uses specifically designated in each zoning use district, which
for their respective conduct, exercise or performance in such designated use
districts may require reasonable but special, peculiar, unusual or
extraordinary limitations, facilities, plans, structures, thoroughfares,
conditions, modifications or regulations in such use districts for the
promotion or preservation of the general public welfare, health, convenience or
safety therein and in the city, and therefore, may be permitted in such use
district only by a conditional use permit.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit specially and individually granted by the
City Council after review and recommendation by the Commission for any
conditional use so permitted in any use district.
   CONSTRUCTION OFFICE. The principal place of business used by a company or
individual engaged in building or road construction, including on site
fabrication of components, on site storage and maintenance of equipment.
   CONTROLLED INTERSECTION. An intersection with two or more stop signs or
traffic signals.
   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the governing body of the
curb in front of the center of the building. Where no curb level has been
established, the engineering staff shall determine a curb level or its
equivalent for the purpose of this chapter.
   DAYCARE FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain regularly
provides one or more persons with care, training, supervision, habilitation,
rehabilitation or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of
less than 24 hours per day, in a place other than the person's own home.
DAYCARE FACILITIES include, but are not limited to, family daycare homes, group
family daycare homes, daycare centers, day nurseries, nursery schools,
development achievement centers, day treatment centers, adult daycare centers
and day services.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railing,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure, including
wetlands, for the temporary storage of runoff which contains a permanent or
semipermanent pool of water.
   DEWATERING. Removal of water for construction activities.
   DUPLEX, TRIPLEX, or QUAD. A dwelling structure on a single lot having two,
three, or four dwelling units respectively being attached by common walls, and
each unit being equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living, and
interior sanitation facilities.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more persons
including rental or time share accommodations such as motel, hotel, resort
rooms, and resort cabins. Any structure containing kitchen or bathroom
facilities, or plumbing shall be considered a DWELLING UNIT.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A dwelling unit totally separated from any other
dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Two or more dwelling units attached together by any
point including duplexes, triplexes, townhouses, and multi-level units
regardless of type of ownership.
   DWELLING, GUEST QUARTERS. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may
contain sleeping spaces and/or kitchen and/or bathroom facilities in addition
to those provided in the primary dwelling unit on a lot; dependent upon the
principal structure for primary utilities, services, entrance, parking, and
accesses; and not for rent or lease. Any accessory structure containing kitchen
or bathroom facilities or plumbing.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings.
   FAA. Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the wind energy
conversion system base, in which the system will collapse in the event of a
structural failure.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood,
marriage or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit, or a group
of not more than four persons not so related, maintaining a common household.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier, or enclosure.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbing activity is completed, and exposed
soils have been stabilized with a permanent vegetative cover with a density of
70% over the entire site.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, including interior balconies, mezzanines, basements and attached
accessory buildings, excepting that area primarily devoted to window display,
fitting rooms, stairs, escalators, unenclosed porches, detached accessory
buildings utilized as dead storage, heating and utility rooms, inside off-
street parking or loading space.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor
area of a building or buildings by the lot area on which such building or
buildings are located.
   FORESTRY. The management, including growing or harvesting of a forest,
woodland or plantation, including the construction, alteration or maintenance
of woods, roads and landings, and related research and educational activities.
   FRONT YARD. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting front street right-of-
way line to a depth required in the yard regulations for the district in which
such lot is located.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is used primarily for storing passenger
vehicles, trailers or trucks.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles, but not including factory assembly of such vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments or junkyards.
   GENERAL FLOOR PLANS. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization
of the floor area within a building or structure, but not necessarily as
detailed as construction plans.
   GROUND MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system with a supporting
framework that is placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that is independent
of any building or other structure. Garages, carports, or similar structures
that incorporate building-integrated or building-mounted solar energy systems
shall not be classified as ground-mounted solar energy systems and shall
instead be subject to regulations governing accessory structures.
   HEIGHT. The distance measured from ground level to the highest point on a
tower or structure, including any antennas.
   HOBBY. An activity or interest pursued outside of one's regular work
primarily for pleasure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. The accessory use of a home for a business or commercial
enterprise, engaged in by the person residing in that unit. The use must be
incidental and secondary to the principal residential use of the dwelling unit
and must not change the residential character of the dwelling unit or adversely
affect the character of the surrounding neighborhood. HOME OCCUPATION does not
refer to a hobby.
   HOTEL. A building having provision for nine or more guests in which lodging
is provided, with or without meals, for compensation, and which is open to
transient or permanent guests, or both, and where no provision is made for
cooking in any guestroom, and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms
is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
   HOUSE/BUILDING NUMBERS. A set of numbers or letters with a minimum height of
four inches that are visible from across the street or avenue that specifies
the street address of the house or building.
   HUB HEIGHT. When referring to a wind turbine, the distance measured from
ground level to the center of the turbine hub of a wind energy conversion
system.
   HYDRIC OR HYDROPHILIC SOILS. Soils which have an affinity for water or swell
and are not easily coagulated, such as colloids.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Vegetation which has an affinity to thrive under
saturated or nearly saturated conditions.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property to which reasonable conditions may
be attached and which will expire on a certain date or after a certain event,
or until zoning regulations no longer permit it.
   INTERIM USE PERMIT. A permit specially and individually granted by the City
Council after review and recommendation by the commission for any interim use
so permitted in any use district.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The substantial removal of more than 25% of
trees or shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block within 100 feet of
the ordinary high-water mark of a river.
   JUNKYARD. An area where used, wasted, discarded, or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber products, bottles and used building materials. Storage of such
material in conjunction with permitted manufacturing process when within an
enclosed area or building shall not be included. Such use shall not include
organic waste or material.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands
within the City of Menahga's jurisdiction including construction, clearing,
grubbing, grading, excavating, transporting, and filling of land.
   LANDINGS. A flat area of a stairway and does not include boat landings.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings, such as trees, grass, and shrubs.
   LIFTS. A mechanical conveyance for access up and down a slope and does not
mean boat lift.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or used or intended for occupancy or used by
a use permitted in this chapter, abutting on a public street, and of sufficient
size to provide the yards required by this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The area of lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
   LOT CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot, except that where any portion of
a lot extends into the public right-of-way or a proposed public right-of-way,
the line of such public right-of-way shall be the lot line for applying this
chapter.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street and, in case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest dimension
on a public street, except that a corner lot in a nonresidential area shall be
deemed to have frontage on both streets. A lot line abutting a controlled
access highway from which there is not direct access to the lot shall not be
deemed a front lot line for the purposes of building or structure setback
requirements.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
In the case of a corner lot or other lot with more than one front lot line, the
REAR LOT LINE shall be opposite the front lot line of the shortest dimension,
or as otherwise determined by the Zoning Administrator after considering the
layout of the lot in relation to surrounding lots. If the REAR LOT LINE is less
than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the REAR LOT
LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the
maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of real property in separate ownership as shown by
the real estate records of the Wadena County Recorder as of January 1, 1981.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two
substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH
LOT, both street lines shall be front lines for applying this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured parallel to the front lines of the lot at the front building setback
line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home used for living purposes that is
transportable in one or more sections and is less than 24 feet in width, with
or without a permanent foundation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any premises on which are parked two or more
occupied manufactured homes, or any premises used or held out for the purpose
of supplying to the public a parking space for two or more such trailers; does
not include sales lots on which automobiles or unoccupied trailers, new or
used, are parked for purposes of inspection or sale.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located. Such uses
include, but are not limited to, the following: sawmill, papermills, boat
manufacturing, refineries, commercial feedlots, acid, cement, explosives,
flour, feed and grain milling or storage, meat packing, slaughterhouses, coal
or tar asphalt distillation, rendering of fat, grease, lard or tallow,
alcoholic beverages, poisons, exterminating agents, glue or size, lime, gypsum,
plaster of paris, tanneries, automobile parts, paper and paper products, glass,
chemicals, crude oil and petroleum products, including storage, electric power
generation facilities, vinegar works, junkyard, auto reduction yard, foundry,
machine shop, forge, casting of metal products, rock, stone and cement
products, and including all uses permitted in the I-1 Industrial District.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment or assembly of products and materials, provided such use
will not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations, or
other objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use is
located. Generally, these are industries dependent upon raw materials refined
elsewhere. Such uses include, but are not limited to, the following:
lumberyards, machine shops, products assembly, sheet metal shops, plastics,
electronics, general vehicle repair, bodywork and painting, contractors' shops
and storage yard, food and nonalcoholic beverages, signs and displays,
printing, publishing, fabricated metal parts, appliances, clothing, textiles,
and used auto parts.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER (MET). A tower and associated equipment used primarily
to measure wind speed and directions; plus other pertinent data relevant to
siting a wind energy conversion system.
   MOTOR COURT, MOTEL HOTEL OR MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, other
than a hotel, used primarily as a temporary residence of a motorist.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is transferred and stored for movement in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale
of motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services
generally required in the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles. These
may include sales of petroleum products, sales and servicing of tires,
batteries, automotive accessories, and replacement items, washing and
lubrication services, and the performance of minor automotive maintenance and
repair.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION CONVENIENCE STORE. A store operated in conjunction with a
major motor fuel station or truck stop for the purpose of offering for sale
goods not essential to the motoring public.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONCOMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (NCWECS). A wind energy
conversion system no greater than 40 kilowatts in total nameplate generating
capacity.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure which is legally existing upon the
effective date hereof, which would not conform to the applicable zoning laws
and restrictions if the structure were to be erected under the provisions of
this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of land, buildings, or structures legally
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, which does not comply with
all the regulations of this chapter, or any amendments hereto, governing the
zoning district(s) in which such use is located.
   NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or can cause detrimental effects on the physical
or economic wellbeing of individuals.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   NUDE or NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than fully opaque covering of any part
of the areola.
   NURSERY, DAY. A use where care is provided for pay for three or more
children under kindergarten age for periods of four hours or more per day.
   NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs, and which may be conducted within a building or
without.
   NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of children or the aged or infirm,
or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such a home does not
contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of disease or injury,
nor does it include maternity care or care for mental illnesses or infirmities.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease
or trade, where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of any material outside of a building.
   OPEN USE. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use with a ground floor area equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot.
   ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL/MARK. The highest level which has been maintained
for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape. The DNR
has determined the OHWL at 1,383.75 on Spirit Lake. The ORDINARY HIGH-WATER
MARK is commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. In areas where the ordinary
high-water level is not evident, setbacks shall be measured from the stream
bank of the following water bodies that have permanent flow or open water: the
main channel, adjoining side channels, backwaters, and sloughs.
   OUTDOOR BOILERS. A freestanding combustion unit located outside the home or
structure to be heated that consists of a firebox surrounded by a reservoir.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property, either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size to store one standard automobile.
   PARTY WALL. A wall which divides two independent structures.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. The criterion established to control noise, odor,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire, and explosive hazards; or glare or
heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERMANENT COVER. Final stabilization.
   PERMITTED USE. A public or private use which, of itself, conforms with the
purposes and objectives of a particular district which conforms with all
requirements, regulations and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An urban development having two or more
principal uses or structures on a single lot and developed according to an
approved plan.
   PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT. A storage unit designed, constructed, or
reconstructed so as to be capable of movement via towing, hauling or attachment
to a vehicle from one site to another and designed to be used without a
permanent foundation. PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS shall include semi-trailers and
similar units which have been modified to make them unable to be readily
transported from one location to another. Storage buildings constructed on
skids, properly licensed fish houses and other similar structures designed for
common use as residential storage structures shall not be considered PORTABLE
STORAGE UNITS for the purposes of this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   PROPERTY LINE. The surveyed and legal boundaries of a parcel of property,
which may also coincide with a right-of-way of a road, cartway and the like.
   PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting where data on a particular topic is heard, and
said time, date, location of meeting and topic has been advertised in the
official newspaper of the city prior to hearing.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by municipal, school district, county,
state or other governmental units.
   PUBLICATION. Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and a description of the topic.
   REAR YARD. A yard extending along the full width of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines and extending toward the front lot line for a depth
as specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT (IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS). Play apparatus, such as
swing sets and slides, sandboxes, poles for nets, unoccupied boats and
recreational vehicles not exceeding 26 feet in length, picnic tables, lawn
chairs, barbecue stands and similar equipment or structures but not including
tree houses, swimming pools, playhouses exceeding 25 square feet of floor area,
or sheds utilized for storage of equipment.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any type of structure or vehicle which can be readily
adapted to or does provide facilities for a person to eat or sleep, which is
mounted on wheels or has provisions for wheels, such as a motor home, travel
trailer, camper or converted vehicle.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain
regularly provides one or more persons with a 24-hour-per-day substitute for
care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision, habilitation,
rehabilitation and treatment they need, but which for any reason cannot be
furnished in the person's own home. RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to, state institutions under the control of the Commissioner of Human
Services, foster homes, residential treatment centers, maternity shelters,
group homes, residential programs, supportive living residences for
functionally impaired adults or schools for handicapped children.
   RETAIL SHOPPING. Stores and shops selling goods and services to the general
public.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure that provides
for the storage of stormwater runoff by means of a permanent or semi-permanent
pool of water.
   ROOF MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system affixed to a
principal or accessory building.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades of the wind energy conversion system.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
genitals, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, vulva, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portion of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility and an ordinary high-water level, sewage
treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line or other facility.
Three feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and steps from
stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK INTERIOR LOT. The closest horizontal distance between the lot line
and the foundation or wall of a structure when the lot line is not the exterior
boundary of the development. Three feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding
30 square feet and not protruding over six feet from the foundation and steps
from stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK SIDE, EXTERIOR. The closest horizontal distance between the exterior
boundary side lot line and the foundation or wall of a structure. This setback
takes precedence over setback, interior lot, where any conflict exists. Three
feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and not protruding
over six feet from the foundation and steps from stoop to ground not over four
feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK ROAD. The closest horizontal distance between the road right of way
line and the foundation or wall of a structure. Three feet of roof overhang,
stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and not protruding over six feet from the
foundation and steps from stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude
into the setback.
   SETBACK WATERFRONT. The closest horizontal distance between the ordinary
high-water mark and the foundation or wall or edge of a structure. Three feet
of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet and not protruding over
six feet from the foundation and steps from stoop to ground not over four feet
wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK PUMP. The distance from the street right-of-way line to the
centerline of the motor fuel station pump island measured as perpendicular
distance from the right-of-way.
   SHELTER, FALLOUT or BLAST. A structure or portion of a structure intended to
provide protection to human life during periods of danger to human life from
nuclear fallout, blasts, air raids, storms, or other emergencies.
   SIDE YARD. A yard extending along the side lot line between the front and
rear yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   SIGN. Any written announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration, insignia, or illumination used to advertise or promote the
interest of any person when the same is displayed or placed out of doors in
view of the general public and shall include every detached sign.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained constant in intensity and color at all times in which such sign is
in use.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The area within the frame shall be used to calculate
the gross area, except that the width of the frame in excess of 12 inches shall
be added thereto. When letters or graphics are mounted without a frame, the
gross area shall be the area bounded by straight lines six inches beyond the
periphery of said letters or graphics. Each surface utilized to display a
message or to attract attention shall be measured as a separate sign. However,
only one side of double faced signs shall be measured in computing the gross
area thereof.
   SIGN ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or address or both, of the
business or occupation of the lot where the sign is placed, or may be a
directory listing the names, address, and business of occupants.
   SIGNIFICANT CULTURAL SITE. Any archaeological or historic site, standing
structure or any other property that: (a) is listed on the National Register of
Historic Places; (b) is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites; (c) is
determined to meet the qualifications for listing on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites after review by the
Minnesota State Archaeologist or the Director of the Minnesota Historical
Society; or (d) is determined by the City Council to be a significant local
heritage preservation landmark.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. The meaning given in M.S. § 237.162, Subdivision
11, as amended from time to time.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR SURFACE. Any part of a solar energy system that absorbs
solar energy for use in the system’s transformation process. The collector
surface does not include frames, supports, and mounting hardware.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun can be collected in the
form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature intended to
provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
heating or cooling, electricity generating, or water heating.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is installed
onto the ground directly or by means of brackets or poles.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted to the roof
of a dwelling or other building.
   STAIRWAYS. Any structure providing access up or down a slope.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped, and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports. Where specific information is not available, STEEP
SLOPES are lands having average slopes over 12% or more, and that are not
bluffs.
   STORM WATER. Defined under Minn. Rules 7077.0105, subd. 41(b), and includes
precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and any other surface
runoff and drainage.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan that a designer formulates to manage
urban stormwater runoff for a particular project or drainage area. It typically
addresses such subjects as characterization of the site development grading
plan; peak rates of runoff, flow duration, runoff volumes for various return
frequencies; locations, criteria and sizes of detention or retention ponds and
conveyances; runoff control features; land parcels, easement locations,
opinions of probable costs, measures to enhance runoff quality, salient
regulations, and how the plan addresses them, and consistency with secondary
objectives such as public recreation, aesthetics, public safety, and
groundwater recharge. It is usually submitted to regulatory officials for their
review for adoption.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted
as a story.
   STREET. A public right-of-way not less than 60 feet in width which affords a
primary means of access of abutting property, and shall also include avenue,
highway, or road, excepting existing public rights-of-way of lesser width.
   STREET SIDE GROUND FLOOR DWELLING UNITS. A dwelling unit contained within a
larger building structure which is designed or used for purposes of permanent
or temporary residency.
   STRUCTURE. Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having permanent
location on the ground telecommunications located or installed on or adjacent
to a tower or antenna support structure. The term does not include: (a) a
satellite earth station antenna two meters in diameter or less located in an
Industrial or Commercial District; (b) a satellite earth station antenna one
meter or less in diameter, wherever located; and (c) a tower.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. When referring to a wind turbine, the distance measured from
ground level to the blade extended at its highest point.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof, that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose of
supporting one or more antennas, electrical generator, rotor blades or
meteorological equipment, including guy towers, monopole towers and self-
supporting lattice towers, including any support thereto.
   TOWER ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure located at the base of a tower for
housing base on transmitting equipment.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of a wind energy conversion system exclusive
of the rotor blades.
   TRUCK STOP. A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of tractor
trailer units and trucks, and which shall include eating and/or sleeping
facilities.
   USE. The purpose of activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity or defined by
the performance standards of this chapter.
   VARIANCE. A legally permitted deviation from the provisions of this chapter
as deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment when the applicant has
demonstrated there are practical difficulties in complying with the code.
Variances cannot create a land use not permitted in a zone.
   VEGETATIVE BUFFER. A strip of well rooted, natural, chemically untreated
vegetation, the width of which is set forth in this chapter, consisting of a
mixture of grasses, shrubs, and trees, immediately adjacent to the ordinary
high-water level.
   VETERINARY. Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and care of
animals, including animal or pet hospitals.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use.
   WETLANDS. Lands in transition between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow
water. WETLANDS are characterized by hydric soils, saturated, or inundated with
surface water, have a frequency or duration of hydrophytic vegetation or
support a prevalence of such vegetation under normal circumstances. WETLANDS
may be counted toward green space in a planned unit development.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment, and materials by bulk to
another business that in turn sells to the final customer.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device or facility, such as a wind
charger, windmill or wind turbine, consisting of one or more wind turbines
under common ownership or operating control, and may include power lines,
transformers, substations, meteorological towers, cables/wires and other
buildings accessory to such facility, whose main purpose is to convert wind
energy into electrical energy to supply electricity to an off-site customer or
on site to an individual system owner/property owner.
   WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment which captures
and converts wind energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine
generator, and includes the turbine, blade, tower, base and pad transformers,
if any, and other related equipment.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any “personal wireless services,” as defined by the
Federal Communication Act of 1996, including FCC-licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services, such as cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio
(ESMR), global system of mobile communications (GSM), paging and similar
services that currently exist or may be developed.
   WIRELESS FACILITIES. The meaning given in M.S. § 237.162, Subdivision 13, as
amended from time to time.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. The meaning given in M.S. § 237.162, Subdivision
16, as amended from time to time.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure from its lowest ground level to the sky, except as expressly
permitted in this chapter. A YARD shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations
for the district in which such lot is located.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the zoning
jurisdiction for which the regulations and requirements governing use are
uniform.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.05 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is divided into the
following districts:
      (1)   R-R, rural residential district;
      (2)   R-1, one- or two-family residential district;
      (3)   R-2, three- or more multi-family residential district;
      (4)   C-B, central business district;
      (5)   C-1, commercial district;
      (6)   I, industrial district;
      (7)   S-D, shoreland overlay district;
      (8)   C-2, highway commercial district;
      (9)   M-H, manufactured home residence; and
      (10)   C-U, community use.
   (B)   The boundaries of the district established by this chapter are
delineated on the zoning map and all notations, references and date shown
thereon are hereby adopted and made part of this chapter and will be on
permanent file and available for public inspection, in the Office of the Zoning
Administrator. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator and
staff to maintain the map and amendments thereto shall be recorded thereon
within 30 days after official publication of amendments.
   (C)   The boundaries between districts are, unless otherwise indicated,
either the center lines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way or the
lines extended or lines parallel or perpendicular thereto.
Where figures are shown on the zoning map between a street and a district
boundary line runs parallel to the street at a distance there from equivalent
to the number of feet stated, unless otherwise indicated.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the maintaining of the public health, safety, morals, and
welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than applicable provision of other laws, ordinances, statutes,
resolutions, covenants or regulations of any kind, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
   (C)   Except as this chapter specifically provides, with provision for
variances granted thereto, no structure shall be erected, converted to another
use, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or land shall be used
for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.07 ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS AND CONCURRENT PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to secure necessary
concurrent permits, such as the MPCA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) and other state waste disposal permits, planned unit development
permits, Corps of Engineers permits, and public water permits.
   (B)   The proposer of any project exceeding the limits defined in the
Environmental Quality Council’s rules and regulations for environmental review
program shall submit a draft Environmental Assessment Worksheet for the city to
review with other pertinent data.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.08 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Allowed to continue. Any use or structure lawfully existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter, or subsequent amendment which made the use
or structure nonconforming, may be continued, including through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance, or improvement, at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon such date, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   A nonconforming use or structure shall in no way be expanded,
enlarged or extended either on the same property or onto an adjoining lot of
record except as expressly allowed in this section. Prohibited expansion,
enlargement, or extension shall include anything that increases the intensity
of the use including, but not limited to, a change to a more intense
nonconforming use or a physical expansion of the existing use that increases
the height, volume and/or area dimensions of the nonconforming use. The City
Council may allow an expansion or extension of a nonconforming structure
without a variance if the expansion or extension does not increase the
nonconforming aspect of the structure. To the extent the expansion or
enlargement of a nonconforming principal or accessory structure is allowed by
this section, no such expansion or enlargement may occur except upon issuance
of the appropriate permits and provided that the use of the property conforms
to the zoning district regulations, that the expansion or enlargement meets
current zoning district regulations, and no other nonconformities are created.
All other expansions of nonconforming structures shall require a variance; and
      (2)   Routine maintenance of a structure containing or relating to a
lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including any necessary nonstructural
repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the
nonconforming use. Nothing in this section prevents the placing of a structure
into a safe condition after it has been declared unsafe by the city.
   (B)   Alterations. Alterations may be made to a building containing
nonconforming dwelling units when the alterations will improve the livability
of such units, provided that such alterations do not increase the number of
dwelling units in the building. Such alterations must be approved by the city.
   (C)   Damaged. Whenever a nonconforming structure or use is damaged by fire,
collapse, flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot, act of God or public enemy
or to the extent of 50% or less of its estimated market value as indicated in
the County Assessor’s records at the time of damage, it may be reconstructed
upon receipt of all required permits. The nonconforming structure or use shall
not be permitted to be reconstructed if the damage is greater than 50% of the
estimated market value as indicated in the County Assessor’s records at the
time of damage.
   (D)   Replaced use or structure. When any lawful nonconforming use of any
structure or land is replaced by another use or structure, the new use or
structure must conform to the provisions of this chapter, and it shall not
thereafter be changed to any nonconforming use or structure.
   (E)   Discontinued. If the nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of 12 months, the subsequent use of the land or the structure shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Public nuisances. Nonconforming uses or structures which are declared
by the city to be public nuisances shall not be allowed to continue as legal
nonconforming uses or structures.
   (G)   Nonconformities in floodplains. No repair, replacement, maintenance,
improvement, or expansion of a nonconforming use or structure in a floodplain
area shall be allowed if such activity would jeopardize the property’s
continued eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program, would increase
flood damage potential, or would increase the degree of obstruction to flood
flows in the floodway.
   (H)   Nonconformities in shorelands. Nonconformities located within the
shoreland overlay district are subject to the provisions of M.S. § 462.357,
Subdivision 1(e), paragraphs (d) through (j), § 6.2.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.09 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Lots of record. All lots of record, existing as of the date of this
chapter and all prior zoning ordinances in the city, that do not meet the
minimum lot area and lot width requirements, may be allowed as building sites
without a variance from lot size or width requirements provided that it
satisfies all of the following:
      (1)   The use is permitted in the zoning district and is not precluded by
any applicable overlay district;
      (2)   The lot was created compliant with official controls in effect at
the time;
      (3)   The setback requirements of this chapter are met; and
      (4)   The applicable wastewater regulations are met.
   (B)   Lots of record in shorelands. Lots of record in the office of the
County Recorder as of the date shoreland regulations were adopted for the city
that are located within a shoreland and do not satisfy the requirements of this
chapter for lot size or lot width are subject to the following:
      (1)   A nonconforming single lot of record located within a shoreland
area may be allowed as a building site without variances from lot size
requirements, provided that:
         (a)   All structure and septic system setback distance requirements
can be met;
         (b)   A Type 1 sewage treatment system consistent with Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080, can be installed or the lot is connected to a public sewer; and
         (c)   The impervious surface coverage does not exceed 30% of the lot.
      (2)   In a group of two or more contiguous lots of record under a common
ownership, an individual lot shall be considered as a separate parcel of land
for the purpose of sale or development, if it meets the following requirements:
         (a)   The lot must be at least 66% of the dimensional standard for lot
width and lot size for the shoreland classification consistent with Minn. Rules
Chapter 6120;
         (b)   The lot must be connected to a public sewer, if available, or
must be suitable for the installation of a Type 1 sewage treatment system
consistent with Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, and local government controls;
         (c)   Impervious surface coverage must not exceed 30% of each lot; and
         (d)   Development of the lot must be consistent with the city’s
comprehensive plan.
      (3)   A lot not meeting the requirements to be considered a separate
parcel of land for the purpose of sale or development as set out above must be
combined with one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more conforming
lots as possible.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the requirements to be considered separate parcel
of land for the purpose of sale or development as set out above, contiguous
nonconforming lots of record in shoreland areas under a common ownership must
be able to be sold or purchased individually if each lot contained a habitable
residential dwelling at the time the lots came under common ownership and the
lots are suitable for, or served by, a sewage treatment system consistent with
the requirements of M.S. § 115.55 and Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, or connected to
a public sewer.
      (5)   In evaluating all variances, zoning and land use permit
applications, or conditional use requests, the city shall require the property
owner to address, when appropriate, storm water runoff management, reducing
impervious surfaces, increasing setback, restoration of wetlands, vegetative
buffers, sewage treatment and water supply capabilities, and other
conservation-designed mitigation actions.
      (6)   A portion of a conforming lot may be separated from an existing
parcel as long as the remainder of the existing parcel meets the lot size and
sewage treatment requirements of the zoning district for a new lot and the
newly created parcel is combined with an adjacent parcel.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.10 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   All structures and appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance with the
general standards of the building industry.
   (A)   One-family residential structures shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, have a ground floor area of not less than 700 square feet of
livable space, and the minimum dimension of the main body of the dwelling unit
shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
   (B)   Two-family structures (duplex) shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, have a ground floor area of not less than 600 square feet of
livable space per unit, and the minimum dimension of the main body of the
dwelling unit shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
   (C)   Three-family structures and above shall be placed on a permanent
foundation, have a floor area of not less than 500 square feet of livable space
per unit, and the minimum dimension of the main body of the dwelling unit shall
not be less than 20 feet in width.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities shall conform to Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency Standards, “Individual Sewage Treatment Systems Standards- 6 MCAR and
4.8040,” including Appendix A (Except E-3, Sewage Osmosis, and E-4, Seepage
Pits), B and E. Further, all sanitary systems shall be constructed by
installers licensed by the State of Minnesota to install on-site disposal
systems.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.11 ALLOWED USES.
   Only those uses specifically listed in this chapter as being allowed as a
permitted, conditional, interim, or accessory use may occur within the city.
All other uses not expressly allowed by this chapter are prohibited, except
that the City Council may allow a use not specifically listed upon submission
of an application and a finding by the City Council that the proposed use is
substantially similar to an allowed use as provided in this chapter. The uses
allowed on lots located within the shoreland overlay district or the floodplain
overlay district are further restricted by the regulations contained with the
shoreland management ordinance or the floodplain management ordinance. No use
allowed within the city shall be established or expanded without first
obtaining all required permits and complying with all applicable standards and
regulations set out in this chapter and all other city ordinances.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.12 USES ALLOWED BY STATE STATUTE.
   The legislature has adopted various provisions by statute requiring local
governments to treat certain uses as permitted or conditional uses within their
respective jurisdictions for the purposes of zoning regulations.
Notwithstanding the general prohibition of uses not expressly allowed by this
chapter, this chapter shall be interpreted as also allowing those uses the
legislature expressly requires the city to allow. Such uses shall be classified
as provided in the legislative mandate and shall only be allowed in those areas
described in the applicable statute and only to the extent and scope as
prescribed in the statute. For example, M.S. § 462.357, Subdivision 7 requires
a licensed daycare facility serving 12 or fewer persons to be considered a
permitted single-family residential use of property. As such, this chapter
shall be interpreted as allowing that specific use as a permitted residential
use, but only up to a capacity of 12 persons. A proposed use that exceeds the
scope described in the statute shall not be allowed unless the expanded use is
expressly allowed by this chapter. Furthermore, if the statute indicates the
use is to be allowed as a conditional use, the use may only occur upon the
submission of an application and receipt of a conditional use permit from the
city. All mandated uses shall obtain a land use permit and all other permits
and permissions as required by this chapter and all other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.13 SUBSTANTIALLY SIMILAR USES.
   An owner proposing to undertake a use he or she believes is substantially
similar to a use expressly allowed by this chapter in the same zoning district
may submit an application to the city to request a finding that the use is
allowed. Such application shall be on the form supplied by the city and it must
fully explain the proposed use and how it is similar to an allowed use. The
City Council shall act on complete applications to determine whether the
proposed use is substantially similar to an allowed use in the same zoning
district. If the City Council does find the proposed use is substantially
similar, it shall also determine whether the use shall be deemed a permitted,
interim, conditional, or accessory use for the purpose of this chapter. The
owner must then apply for and obtain all required permits based on the City
Council’s classification of the use and any other applicable regulations. The
City Council shall maintain a record of all uses it expressly finds to be
substantially similar and will make a good faith effort to include those uses
in this chapter the next time it is amended. If the City Council finds the
proposed use is not substantially similar to an allowed use, the owner may
submit a separate application for a conditional use permit.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.14 USE OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures or uses require the establishment of a principal
structure when placed on a lot less than 2½ acres in size.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.15 ZONING DISTRICT AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The City of Menahga is hereby divided into zoning districts as shown
on the official zoning district map, which may be subsequently amended.
   (B)   The boundaries are generally on the center of streets, on lot lines,
on shorelines, on the center of streams, or rivers, and following the contour
of the land.
   (C)   The following districts are hereby established:
      (1)   R-R, rural residential district;
      (2)   R-1, one- or two-family residence district;
      (3)   R-2, three or more multi-family residence district;
      (4)   C-B, central business district;
      (5)   C-1, commercial district;
      (6)   I, industrial district;
      (7)   S-D, shoreland overlay district;
      (8)   C-2, highway commercial district;
      (9)   M-H, manufactured home residence; and
      (10)   C-U, community use.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.16 R-R, RURAL RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish and maintain a district that is semi-rural and
rural in character and to prevent the occurrence of premature urban
development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture, including farm dwellings and agricultural buildings;
      (2)   Forest and production of woodland products including portable
sawmills for cutting timber grown on the premises;
      (3)   One- or two-family dwellings;
      (4)   Public and private parks;
      (5)   Residential and nonresidential programs as regulated by M.S. §§
245A.11 and 245A.14, as amended, except where such programs are considered a
multi-family residential use by said statutes;
      (6)   All home occupations shall comply with the following general
provisions and standards:
         (a)   Machine shops, body shops, repair of internal combustion engines
(other than small engine repair), welding, manufacturing, or any other
objectionable use as determined by the City Council shall not be permitted as a
home occupation.
         (b)   No manufacturing business shall be allowed.
         (c)   Home occupations shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to
the residential use of the dwelling.
         (d)   Exterior alterations or modifications that change the
residential character or appearance of the dwelling, any accessory buildings,
or the property itself shall be prohibited.
         (e)   Home occupations shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes.
         (f)   Exterior display or storage of equipment or materials is
prohibited.
         (g)   Signage is permitted as allowed in §
151.37, Sign regulations, for the zoning district in which the home occupation
is located.
         (h)   No home occupation shall produce light glare, noise, odor or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
         (i)   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
         (j)   Frequent shipment and delivery of products, merchandise, or
supplies shall be limited to between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and shall occur
only in single rear axle straight-trucks or smaller vehicles normally used to
serve residential neighborhoods.
         (k)   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless said occupation is contained entirely within the
principal building and will not require any on-street parking facilities. The
City Council shall have the authority to further restrict the hours of
operation as necessary to meet the purpose of this section.
         (l)   On the premises, retail sales shall be prohibited except for the
retail sales of products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises as a
result of the home occupation, except for the occasional sale of items that are
primarily sold mail order or sold over the Internet or incidental to the
products or goods produced or fabricated on the premises.
      (7)   Solar energy system, roof-mounted; and
      (8)   Keeping of farm animals, horses and chickens per the performance
standards outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Planned unit development, which are individually owned or rental
units, medical, hospital or extended care facilities; and
      (3)   Other residential, institutional, or government service uses
determined by the City Council to be of the same general character as the
permitted and conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to
existing uses, or the public health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Normal uses accessory to principal uses are allowed
except the principal use must first be established.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area square feet: 2.5 acres;
      (3)   Front setback measured from the property line: 30 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet;
      (5)   Side yard setback: 20 feet;
      (6)   Corner side yard setback: 30 feet;
      (7)   Sheds under 200 square feet setback (side or rear): 5 feet;
      (8)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: varies by parcel;
      (9)   Building height maximum: 45 feet;
      (10)   Maximum density: One unit per 25,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 R-1, ONE- OR TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 district is intended for low density residential
development in those areas where development fits the land use plan and
policies.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   One- or two-family unit dwellings;
      (2)   Public and private parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and other
recreation uses of a supporting nature to parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   Residential and nonresidential programs as regulated by M.S. §§
245A.11 and 245A.14, as amended, except where such programs are considered a
multifamily residential use by said statutes.
      (4)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by governmental
agencies;
      (5)   Public elementary or high schools or private schools with an
equivalent curriculum; and
      (6)   Churches, parish houses, convents, children’s nurseries and
schools.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Planned unit developments;
      (2)   Commercial childcare facilities;
      (3)   Vegetation removal, clear cutting;
      (4)   Nursing home, or home for the aged, including assisted living,
memory care or similar.
      (5)   Accessory dwelling units; and
      (6)   Other residential, institutional, or government service uses
determined by the City Council to be of the same general character as the
permitted and conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to
existing uses, or the public health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (D)   Accessory uses permitted. Normal uses accessory to the principal uses
are allowed except that the principal use must first be established.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width (one- or two-family units): 75 feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot area square feet (with sewer): 7,500 square feet;
      (3)   Minimum lot square feet (without sewer): 20,000 square feet;
      (4)   Front setback measured from the property line: 20 feet;
      (5)   Rear yard: 10 feet;
      (6)   Side yard: 10 feet;
      (7)   Corner side yard: 20 feet;
      (8)   Sheds under 200 square feet setback (side or rear): 5 feet;
      (9)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: varies by parcel;
      (10)   Building height maximum: 35 feet;
      (11)   Maximum density (with sewer): One unit per 7,500 square feet;
      (12)   Maximum density (without sewer): One unit per 20,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed - -82; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 151.18 R-2, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 district is intended for apartments, row houses,
townhouses, dormitories and other buildings of three or more dwelling units.
Any use permitted in the R-1 district is permitted in the R-2 district.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 district;
      (2)   Single-family, duplex, triplex, fourplex and greater structures;
and
      (3)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
libraries, museums, art galleries, post offices and other municipal service
buildings.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Planned unit developments;
      (2)   Commercial childcare facilities;
      (3)   Medical facilities;
      (4)   Vegetation removal, clear cutting;
      (5)   Licensed residential and nonresidential programs considered a
permitted multi- family use by M.S. § 245A.14, as amended;
      (6)   Nursing home, or home for the aged, including assisted living,
memory care or similar;
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units; and
      (8)   Other residential, institutional, or government service uses
determined by the City Council to be of the same general character as the
permitted and conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to
existing uses or the public health, safety, and welfare of the public.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Normal uses accessory to the principal uses are
allowed except that the principal use must first be established.
   (E)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot width (one- and two-family units): 75 feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width (three- and four-family units or more): 150 feet;
      (3)   Lot area (with sewer): 7,500 square feet, plus 3,000 square feet
for each additional dwelling unit over two;
      (4)   Lot area (without sewer): 15,000 square feet, plus 3,000 additional
square feet for each additional dwelling unit over two;
      (5)   Front setback measured from the property line: 20 feet;
      (6)   Rear yard: 10 feet;
      (7)   Side yard: 10 feet;
      (8)   Corner side yard: 20 feet;
      (9)   Sheds under 200 square feet setback (side or rear): 5 feet;
      (10)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: varies by parcel;
      (11)   Building height maximum: 40 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 C-B, CENTRAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-B district is intended for retail stores and offices
that are mutually compatible and can benefit from and contribute to a compact
shopping area serving the city and surrounding area.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Retail establishments: the sale of goods to the public;
      (2)   Food service establishments: bakeries, grocery store, catering,
etc.;
      (3)   On- and/or off-sale liquor establishments;
      (4)   Personal services: beauty shop, barber shop, massage therapy, etc.;
      (5)   Professional services: medical, dental, optical, insurance, law,
etc.;
      (6)   Entertainment and amusement services;
      (7)   Lodging services, including hotels and motels;
      (8)   Gas stations, light repair shops;
      (9)   Professional office buildings;
      (10)   Recreational centers;
      (11)   Theaters;
      (12)   Restaurants, taverns, distillery, microbrewery with taproom;
      (13)   Public buildings;
      (14)   Churches;
      (15)   Commercial childcare facility;
      (16)   Libraries; and
      (17)   Dwelling(s) on the second floor or above, or behind, provided
there is a separate entrance and at least one off-street parking stall provided
per unit.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Other commercial uses determined by the City Council
to be of the same general character as the permitted use above and found not to
be detrimental to existing uses, or to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the public.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Lot width minimum: 25 feet;
      (2)   Lot size: 2,250 square feet;
      (3)   Property line setback front: 0 feet;
      (4)   Property line setback side: 0 feet;
      (5)   Property line setback rear yard: 0 feet;
      (6)   Impervious coverage: varies by parcel;
      (7)   Building height maximum: 45 feet;
      (8)   All artificial lighting and glare shall be directed away from the
public right-of-way and any residential district.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. 1108-2010, passed 11-8-10; Am. Ord. passed 12- -
24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.20 C-1, COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The C-1 district is intended to provide suitable locations
for commercial retail and wholesaling administrative servicing and related
activities dealing more in convenience goods and services.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Those uses as permitted in the C-B district shall be permitted
uses;
      (2)   Cabinet, carpenter, upholstering or furniture repair shops and
services;
      (3)   Dry cleaning, dyeing and laundry establishments;
      (4)   Electrical contractors and equipment repair and services
establishments;
      (5)   Greenhouses, nurseries and garden supply stores;
      (6)   Mortuaries, vault and casket establishments;
      (7)   Municipal and government buildings and structures;
      (8)   Newspaper printing and distribution agencies;
      (9)   Public utility structures; and
      (10)   Plumbing, heating and air conditioning shops, service and
showrooms.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Other commercial uses determined by the City Council
to be of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above
and found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the general health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Lot width minimum: 75 feet;
      (2)   Lot size: 10,000 square feet;
      (3)   Property line setback front: 10 feet;
      (4)   Property line setback side: 5 feet;
      (5)   Property line setback rear yard: 10 feet;
      (6)   Impervious surface coverage: varies by parcel;
      (7)   Building height maximum: 45 feet;
      (8)   All artificial lighting and glare shall be directed away from the
public right-of-way and any residential district.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 C-2, HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-2 district is to develop highway-
oriented business areas without detriment to the flow of traffic on any
arterial highway or street.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Those uses as permitted in the C-B and C-1 districts shall be
permitted uses;
      (2)   Automobile sales and display area;
      (3)   Farm implement dealers with enclosed showrooms and sales areas;
      (4)   Engraving, printing, publishing, cartographic and bookbinding
establishments;
      (5)   Lumber sales and yards;
      (6)   Marine and boat sales display and servicing establishments; and
      (7)   Monuments, processing and sales.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Outside storage and commercial storage units or facilities; and
      (2)   Other commercial uses determined by the City Council to be of the
same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and found
not to be detrimental to existing uses and the general health, safety, and
welfare of the public.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Lot width minimum: 100 feet;
      (2)   Lot size: 25,000 square feet;
      (3)   Property line setback front: 30 feet;
      (4)   Property line setback side: 10 feet;
      (5)   Property line setback rear yard: 20 feet;
      (6)   Setback, corner side: 20 feet;
      (7)   Impervious surface coverage: varies by parcel;
      (8)   Building height maximum: 45 feet;
      (9)   All artificial lighting and glare shall be directed away from the
public right-of-ways and any residential district.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.22 I, INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the I district is to establish the appropriate
location for the manufacturing, distribution, wholesaling, or storage of raw
material, partially finished products or finished products.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any permitted or conditional use allowed in the C-B, C-1, and C-
2 districts;
      (2)   Fabrication;
      (3)   Commercial storage;
      (4)   Manufacturing;
      (5)   Automobile painting, upholstering, tire recapping and major repair
when conducted within a completely enclosed building;
      (6)   Bus terminals and maintenance garage;
      (7)   Ice, cold storage plants, bottling works;
      (8)   Laundries;
      (9)   Machine shops;
      (10)   Paint mixing;
      (11)   Paper products from previously processed paper;
      (12)   Radio and television studios;
      (13)   Research laboratories;
      (14)   Warehousing and wholesaling;
      (15)   Restaurants;
      (16)   Creamery; and
      (17)   Open storage when incidental to a principal use and conducted
within a completely fenced area.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Airports, truck and freight terminals and open sales lots;
      (2)   Radio or television transmission towers;
      (3)   Cement, concrete, stone cutting, brick, glass, batteries (wet
cells), ceramic products, mill working, metal polishing and platting, paint
(pigment manufacturing), vinegar works, rubber products, plastics, meat
packing, flour, feed, grain milling, coal, or tar asphalt distillation,
rendering works, distillation of bones, saw mill, lime, gypsum, plaster of
paris, glue, size, cloth, paper mill, creosote plant, acid manufacture, refuse
and garbage disposal and similar uses;
      (4)   Crude oil, gasoline, or other liquid storage tanks;
      (5)   Storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products which
could decompose by detonation;
      (6)   Auto wrecking, junk yard, used auto parts, open storage and similar
uses;
      (7)   Incineration or reduction of waste material other than customarily
incidental to the principal use;
      (8)   Poison, fertilizer, fuel briquettes manufacture or processing;
      (9)   Kilns or other heat processes fired by means other than
electricity;
      (10)   Open storage; and
      (11)   Other commercial or industrial uses determined by the City Council
to be of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above
and found not to be detrimental to existing uses or public health, safety, and
welfare of the public.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Whenever an I district abuts a residential district, a fence or
compact evergreen screen not less than 50% opaque nor less than six feet in
height, except adjacent to a street where it shall be not less than three or
more than four feet in height, shall be erected and maintained in the front
portion of the lot, along the side or rear property line that abuts the
Residential District;
      (2)   All artificial lighting and glare shall be directed away from the
public right-of-way and any residential district;
      (3)   Lot width minimum: 100 feet;
      (4)   Lot size: 40,000 square feet;
      (5)   Property line setback front yard: 40 feet;
      (6)   Property line setback side: 20 feet;
      (7)   Property line setback rear yard: 20 feet;
      (8)   Building height maximum: 45 feet;
      (9)   Impervious coverage: varies by parcel.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.23 S-D, SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. Provide for the wise development of shoreland overlay
district of public waters by establishing minimum lot size, width, and water
frontage for lots suitable as building sites; regulating the placement of
structures in relation to shorelines and roads; regulating the type and
placement of sanitary and waste disposal facilities; and the regulation of
shoreland grading and filling.
   (B)   Statutory authorization, shoreland management. The shorelands of the
City of Menahga, Minnesota are hereby designated as a shoreland overlay
district pursuant to the authorization contained in M.S. Chapter 379, and in
furtherance of the policies declared in M.S. Chapters 105, 115, 116, and 462.
   (C)   Public waters classification. The public waters of the State of
Minnesota located within the City of Menahga, County of Wadena, State of
Minnesota, have been classified and numbered by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources and that classification shall apply for all purposes under
this chapter.
      (1)   Blueberry River: forested (FT) river classification (300 feet from
the ordinary high-water level); and
      (2)   Spirit Lake: general development (GD); the shoreline overlay
district zone shall be established at 1,000 feet from the OHWL (DNR has
determined the OHWL on Spirit Lake to be 1,383.75 feet) or the Menahga
shoreland standard, whichever is closer to the water body on the undeveloped
shoreline.
   (D)   Permitted uses in shoreland. All permitted uses allowed and regulated
by the applicable zoning district underlying this shoreland overlay district as
indicated on the official zoning district map.
   (E)   Conditional uses in shoreland overlay district. All conditional uses
and applicable attached conditions allowed and regulated by the applicable
zoning district underlying this shoreland overlay district as indicated on the
official zoning district map.
   (F)   Permitted accessory uses in shoreland overlay district. Any use
permitted as accessory by the applicable zoning district underlying this
shoreland overlay district as indicated on the official zoning district map.
   (G)   Performance standards. The following dimensional requirements shall
apply to all shorelands of all public waters within the City of Menahga. Where
the requirements of the underlying zoning district, as shown on the official
zoning map, are more restrictive than those set forth herein, then the more
restrictive standards shall apply. For lots newly platted or created by metes
and bounds description after the effective date of this chapter, the following
shall apply:
      (1)   Blueberry River, forested (FT). Lot area, height, lot widths, and
yard requirements:
         (a)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet;
         (b)   Water frontage and building line lot width, single-family
(sewered): 200 feet;
         (c)   Water frontage and building line lot width, single-family
(unsewered): 200 feet;
         (d)   Water frontage and building line lot width, duplex (sewered):
300 feet;
         (e)   Water frontage and building line lot width, duplex (unsewered):
300 feet;
         (f)   Building setback from ordinary high-water level (sewered): 150
feet;
         (g)   Building setback from ordinary high-water level (unsewered): 150
feet;
         (h)   Elevation of lowest floor above highest known water level: 3
feet;
         (i)   Sewage system setback from ordinary high-water mark: 100 feet;
         (j)   Sewage system elevation above highest ground water level or
bedrock: 4 feet;
         (k)   Impervious surface coverage: 30%;
         (l)   Height structure maximum: 35 feet;
         (m)   Top, toe, and sides of bluff: 30 feet;
         (n)   Substandard lots: see §
151.09.
      (2)   Spirit Lake, general development (GD). Lot area, height, lot
widths, and yard requirements:
         (a)   Lot area (unsewered): 25,000 square feet;
         (b)   Lot area (sewered): 15,000 square feet;
         (c)   Water frontage and building line lot width, single-family
(unsewered): 150 feet;
         (d)   Water frontage and building line lot width, single-family
(sewered): 75 feet;
         (e)   Water frontage and building line lot width, duplex (unsewered):
150 feet;
         (f)   Building setback from ordinary high-water level: 75 feet;
         (g)   Elevation of the lowest floor above the highest known water
level: 3 feet;
         (h)   Impervious surface coverage: 30%;
         (i)   Height structure maximum: 35 feet;
         (j)   Top, toe, and sides of bluff: 30 feet;
         (k)   Setbacks. Height, depth, yard and street setback regulations
will be those of the applicable zoning district.
   (H)   General provisions.
      (1)   Deck additions. Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to
a structure not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high-water level
if all of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         (b)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
         (c)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high-water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high-
water level or is no closer than 30 feet from the OHWL, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         (d)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
      (2)   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas. These
facilities must be designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and
topography to achieve maximum screening as viewed from public waters. They must
be constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the MPCA’s National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) requirements
and the Minnesota Stormwater Manual and comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks
and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts;
         (b)   Watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-related
parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided the vegetative
screening and erosion control conditions of this
section are met;
         (c)   Private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-
related parking areas are prohibited; and
         (d)   For public roads, driveways and parking areas, documentation
must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters.
      (3)   Stairways, lifts, and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways, lifts, and landings
must meet the following design requirements:
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
recreational uses, and planned unit developments;
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public-space recreational uses, and planned unit
developments;
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
         (d)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
         (e)   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, if they are consistent with the dimensional and performance standards of
divisions (H)(3)(a) and (b) above and the requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter
1341.
      (4)   Water-oriented accessory structures or facilities. Each residential
lot may have one water-oriented accessory structure or facility if it complies
with the following provisions:
         (a)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 200 square
feet. The structure or facility may include detached decks not exceeding eight
feet above grade at any point or at-grade patios;
         (b)   The structure or facility is not in the bluff impact zone;
         (c)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high-
water level must be at least 20 feet;
         (d)   The structure is not a boathouse or boat storage structure as
defined under M.S. § 103G.245;
         (e)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
         (f)   The roof may be used as an open-air deck with safety rails, but
must not be enclosed with a roof or sidewalls or used as a storage area;
         (g)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities;
and
         (h)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation specified in shoreland overlay district. If the
structure is designed to accommodate internal flooding, constructed of flood-
resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and mechanical equipment is
placed above the elevation and, if long duration flooding is anticipated, the
structure is built to withstand ice action and wind-driven waves and debris.
      (5)   Shoreland alterations. The removal of natural vegetation shall be
restricted to prevent erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients in the
soil, and to preserve shoreland aesthetics. Removal of natural vegetation in
the shoreland overlay district shall be subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Selective removal of natural vegetation shall be allowed
provided that sufficient vegetative cover remains to screen cars, dwellings and
other structures when viewed from water.
         (b)   Clear cutting of natural vegetation shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after
any construction project is completed in order to retard surface runoff and
soil erosion.
         (d)   The provisions of this division (H)(5) shall not apply to
permitted uses which normally require the removal of natural vegetation.
         (e)   Grading and filling in shoreland areas or any alterations of the
natural topography where the slope of the land is toward public water or a
watercourse leading to a public water must be authorized by a conditional use
permit. The permit may be granted subject to the conditions that:
            1.   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as feasible;
            2.   Temporary ground cover, such as sod, is planted;
            3.   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed;
            4.   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards;
            5.   Excavations on shoreland where the intended purpose is
connection to public water shall require a permit from the city Zoning
Administrator before construction is begun and must comply with the rules of
the Commissioner of Natural Resources (DNR).
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.24 M-H, MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENCE; NEW.
   (A)   General. Manufactured housing development shall be considered a form
of PUD and administered as a conditional use in the zoning district where said
use is allowed. Development of this type creates a heavy demand and reliance on
municipal type facilities including roads, sewer, water and fire protection. In
addition, these developments are often the most dense in a community requiring
heavier streets, more public recreation facilities and nearby shopping.
   (B)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed, subject to
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications contained in this
chapter.
      (1)   M.S. §§ 327.10 through 327.28, Manufactured Home Parks and Camping
Area; and
      (2)   Minn. Rules Chapter 4630 governing manufactured home parks and
recreational camping area.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   A Minnesota Department of Health permit shall be required.
      (2)   Parcel size shall be a minimum of ten acres.
      (3)   At least two acres shall be set aside for green space.
      (4)   Minimum individual lot dimensions shall be 60 feet by 140 feet.
      (5)   At least 20% of the land shall be in common ownership and not used
for individual lots.
      (6)   There shall be a minimum of two and a maximum of three parking
spaces for each unit.
      (7)   All units must be skirted, unless placed on an enclosed foundation.
      (8)   Sufficient storm shelter shall be provided to accommodate all
residents of the development.
      (9)   When served by public utilities, there shall be individualized
sewer, water and electrical connection for each site.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.25 MANUFACTURED HOMES STANDARD.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall comply with the standards contained within
this section.
   (B)   Seal or label requirement. A manufactured home installed in the city
must have a seal or label on it issued by the Minnesota Commissioner of
Administration or by the United States Department of Housing and Administration
signifying that the home is in compliance with the regulations applicable to
such homes.
   (C)   Anchoring. All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists floatation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (D)   Installation. A manufactured home shall be installed by an installer
licensed by the State of Minnesota. The installation shall be in accordance
with Minn. Rules Chapter 1350 and the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (E)   Non-compliant homes. Manufactured homes not meeting the definition in
M.S. § 327.31, Subdivision 6, or that do not comply with the standards of the
Minnesota Manufactured Home Building Code are prohibited and shall not be
placed within the city. No alterations to the structural components of a
manufactured home are allowed unless made in full compliance with Minnesota
Manufactured Home Building Code and all other applicable laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.26 M-H, MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENCE; EXISTING.
   (A)   Purpose. The M-H district is intended for the manufactured home
residential development, with the main objective being the separation of
manufactured homes from permanent housing developments.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufactured homes; and
      (2)   Home occupations and offices of professional persons when the use
does not exceed one-third of a dwelling or accessory building and does not
employ more than one person not residing on the premises.
   (C)   Accessory buildings are allowed once a principal residence is
established.
   (D)   Height, yard and lot requirements.
      (1)   Height: 20 feet.
      (2)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet;
         (b)   Rear: 10 feet;
         (c)   Side: 10 feet.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.27 COMMUNITY USE.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish and maintain a land use district that is
publicly owned for public buildings, land and public facilities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Campgrounds;
      (2)   Community centers;
      (3)   Cultural facilities, such as museums, art centers or cultural
education;
      (4)   Essential services, governmental use buildings and storage;
      (5)   Temporary festivals/carnivals, sales and promotional event;
      (6)   Public or semi-public/club parks, playgrounds, sport courts,
beaches, swimming pools, recreation areas, hiking trails and historic monument;
and
      (7)   Other uses of the same general character as those listed above,
provided they are deemed fitting or compatible to the district by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§§ 151.28 through 151.35 RESERVED.
§ 151.36 CANNABIS SALES.
   The purpose of this section is to protect the general welfare and safety of
the city by providing a policy to adopt reasonable restrictions on the time,
place, and manner of the operations of a cannabis business. Cannabis businesses
are prohibited within the following:
   (A)   One thousand feet of a school;
   (B)   Five hundred feet of a licensed daycare;
   (C)   Five hundred feet of residential treatment facility;
   (D)   Five hundred feet of a public park or athletic field regularly used by
minors.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.37 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to protect the general welfare and
safety of the city by providing a policy of aesthetic development to prevent
signs from intruding on the rural character of the city; to provide adequate
signs for property identification purposes and to provide adequate signage.
   (B)   All free-standing signs such as, but not limited to a monument or
pylon signs are considered structures and require an approved permit before
being erected.
   (C)   Residential signage under four square feet do not require a permit,
however all other performance standards of this section shall apply.
   (D)   Non-residential signage when attached flat against a building or wall
do not require a permit, however all other performance standards of this
section shall apply.
   (E)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any angle to a building or
structure which sign extends or projects over the street or highway, or within
the public right-of-way.
   (F)   Noncommercial speech. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
section, the noncommercial speech exemption provided by M.S. § 211B.045 (or
successor statute) is hereby incorporated by reference or as amended, and the
timeframe shall also be the same as used for special elections.
   (G)   The changing of the display surface on a sign(s), or complete
replacement of a sign(s), when such change or replacement would be consistent
with a previously issued permit or a sign considered to be a legal
nonconformity would not require a new permit.
   (H)   The following signs shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section.
      (1)   Signs which are affixed on property owned by a county, state or
federal governmental body or a public school district unless specifically
prohibited by this section;
      (2)   Interior signs;
      (3)   Signs which are integrally attached to or part of:
         (a)   Waste roll-offs, dumpsters, garbage cans, portable storage units
or other similar equipment owned and maintained by a commercial business for
the purpose of waste collection or temporary storage;
         (b)   Signs which are affixed on city-owned property, which have been
approved by the City Council or their designee;
         (c)   Murals located on a building used primarily for commercial or
industrial purposes which are maintained by the property owner or his/her
designee;
         (d)   Signs required by law.
   (I)   Setbacks as measured from the property line.
 
                       Commercial  Central Business            Rural
           Residential (C-1 & C-2) (C-B)            Industrial Residential (R-
                                                               R)
Front yard 5 ft.       5 ft.       0 ft.            10 ft.     10 ft.
Side yard  5 ft.       5 ft.       0 ft.            10 ft.     10 ft.
Rear       5 ft.       5 ft.       0 ft.            10 ft.     10 ft.
 
   (J)   Residential zones.
      (1)   Signs shall not be internally lighted but may be of a reflective
material.
      (2)   No sign area shall be larger than four square feet for a residence.
      (3)   The maximum cumulative total of signage shall not exceed 12 square
feet.
      (4)   No sign shall be placed in the public right-of-way.
      (5)   No sign shall be greater than five feet in height.
   (K)   Multi-family residential district. Within any multi-family residential
zoning district, a property containing three or more dwelling units may have
one sign up to 32 square feet in size, which may be externally illuminated and
have a maximum height of eight feet.
   (L)   Non-residential zones.
      (1)   Any free-standing monument or pylon sign shall first obtain an
approved permit from the city.
      (2)   Performance standards.
 
                 Maximum Sign Area Maximum Sign Height  Cumulative Maximum
Zoning District  for Sign          (measured from the   Sign Area
                                   top of the sign)
                                                        50 sq. ft. or 3 sq.
                                                        ft. per front foot of
Commercial                                              lot which abuts a
(C-1 & C-2)      200 sq. ft.       30 ft.               public right-of- way,
                                                        whichever is greater,
                                                        but not to exceed
                                                        1,200 sq. ft.
                                                        50 sq. ft. or 2 sq.
                                                        ft. per front foot of
Central Business 100 sq. ft.       25 ft.               lot which abuts a
                                                        public right-of- way,
                                                        whichever is greater
                                                        4 sq. ft. per front
Industrial       300 sq. ft.       30 ft.               foot of a lot which
                                                        abuts a public right-
                                                        of-way
Note: For buildings where more than two sides abut a public right-of-way or
which can be accessed from a parking lot, seating area or secondary entrance
available to customers on a side not abutting a public right-of-way, an
additional 50 square feet of signage shall be allowed beyond what would
otherwise be allowed.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12-2-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.38 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The requirements of this section shall apply to all new or replacement
fences, walls, or shrubbery erected or installed from and after the effective
date of this section but shall not apply to the mere repair of existing fences.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   All fencing over 30 inches shall require a permit.
      (2)   No fence shall contain barbed wire or charged with electric
current, except where specifically allowed in this section.
      (3)   No fence, wall or other obstruction to vision above a height of 30
inches from the established street grades shall be permitted within the
triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of-way lines by
a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance along each
line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
      (4)   Fences must be maintained so as not to endanger life or property
and any fence which, through lack of repair, type of construction or otherwise,
that imperils health, life or property or the well-being of a neighborhood
shall be deemed a nuisance.
      (5)   All fences must be located on the private property of the person,
firm or corporation constructing the fence.
      (6)   All fences must comply with all other requirements of law or this
code as it applies to fence installation and materials.
         (a)   All zoning districts regulations.
            1.   Prohibited material. No fence or wall shall be constructed of
any electrically charged element or barbed wire, unless specifically allowed in
this section.
            2.   Approved material, allowable materials. Fences must be made of
stone, brick, finished wood, rigid plastic, chain link, treated or cedar wood,
split rail fences, or other materials commonly used for fencing. Materials not
expressly listed above may only be authorized by conditional use permit, except
that the following types of fences are prohibited: barbed wire (except as
authorized elsewhere in this section), electrical fencing, razor wire, creosote
lumber, chicken wire (unless used for the enclosure of gardens), concrete block
or poured concrete, plastic webbing, plywood or pressed wood. Notwithstanding
the above prohibitions, commercially available snow fencing may be allowed
between November 1 and March 15 of each calendar year.
            3.   Maximum height. No fence shall exceed six feet in height on
any property, measured from six inches above the adjacent ground surface.
            4.   Maintenance. Every fence or wall shall be maintained in a good
and safe condition at all times. Every damaged or missing element of any fence
or wall shall be prepared or replaced in a timely manner.
            5.   Setbacks. Two feet unless fence can be maintained entirely
from one side, and then zero feet measured from the property line. All fences
along property boundary lines shall be located entirely upon the property of
the person constructing or causing the construction of the fence. The property
owner shall maintain both sides of the fence. Fences shall be installed with
the finished side(s) facing the neighboring property or properties. No fence
shall be installed so that it obstructs the view of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic on adjacent streets or public ways. All fences shall be installed in a
manner that allows necessary maintenance to be performed without trespass on a
neighboring property. All fences shall be placed a minimum of ten feet from the
ordinary high-water mark of a lake, two feet from an alley lot line unless the
fence can be maintained entirely from the non-alley side, and ten feet from any
city, county or state road surface or out of the road right-of-way, whichever
is more restrictive.
         (b)   Submission requirements. When requesting a certificate of
compliance for a fence, a certificate of survey from a licensed surveyor
showing the parcel and proposed fence must be submitted to the city, unless any
of the following exceptions apply:
            1.   The proposed fence will clearly be located entirely on the
subject property and meet all required setbacks, in the sole discretion of the
city;
            2.   Stakes from a previously completed survey are still in place
and appropriately marked, in the sole discretion of the city; or
            3.   A signed, written statement from all neighboring property
owners adjacent to the proposed fence is provided and indicates that said
neighbors do not dispute the proposed fence location.
         (c)   Industrial districts.
            1.   Approved material. Approved fencing materials include stone,
brick, finished wood, rigid plastic, chain-link, treated of cedar wood, split
rail fences or other materials commonly used for fencing. Other materials may
only be approved by conditional use permit, except that the following types of
fences are prohibited unless specifically allowed otherwise: barbed wire
electrical fencing, razor wire, creosote lumber, chicken wire (unless used for
the enclosure of gardens), concrete block or poured concrete, plastic webbing,
plywood or pressed wood. Notwithstanding the above prohibitions, commercially
available snow fencing may be allowed between November 1 and March 15 of each
calendar year. The use of barbed wire is allowed on the top portion of fencing
on industrial-zoned property not to exceed 18 inches of barbwire.
            2.   Maximum height. Fences not exceeding 84 inches (seven feet) in
height may be constructed, as measured from six inches above the adjacent
ground level.
            3.   Setbacks. Two feet unless fence can be maintained entirely
from one side, and then zero feet measure from the property line.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.39 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   On-site parking shall be provided in all zones, except in the
central business district, with adequate drive access to prevent the need to
back onto collector streets or highways.
      (2)   All parking shall be paved or provided with an all-weather surface,
such as compacted Class 5 gravel, and be adequately drained.
      (3)   Parking shall be provided at the minimum following ratios.
         (a)   Residential parking requirements. Two stalls per residential
unit (one-, two-, three-, four-unit), one and one-half stalls per dwelling unit
over four units.
         (b)   C-1 and C-2 commercial parking requirements. No parking ratio,
however all parking shall be on-site.
         (c)   Central business parking requirements. No parking ratio.
         (d)   Industrial. No parking ratio, however, all parking shall be on-
site.
      (4)   On-site parking shall not be closer than five feet from a lot line.
      (5)   The following handicap parking shall be applied:
 
Total Parking Spaces Accessible Parking Spaces “Van-Accessible” Spaces Required
                     Required
1 to 25              1                         1
26 to 50             2                         1
51 to 75             3                         1
76 to 100            4                         1
101 to 150           5                         1
151 to 200           6                         1
 
   (B)   Loading. All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be
located on the same lot as the principal use served. Loading shall not occupy
front yard space. Berths shall not be used for storage.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.40 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   All development shall contain provisions for adequate surface or
subsurface runoff of storm water and snow melt directed to natural drainage
ways. A storm frequency of a five-year return period shall be provided for with
no structural flooding or ponding.
   (B)   All development shall provide for the continuance of natural drainage
ways and shall be so constructed as to be one foot above the water level in the
drainage way created by a storm of a 100-year return period of a 1% chance of
occurrence.
   (C)   All drainage structures provided shall be sufficient in size to pass a
ten-year storm along a natural drainage way and to pass a 100-year storm along
a drainage way.
   (D)   The use of natural or manmade stormwater storage areas is encouraged.
These areas should be vegetated and designated to naturally lower after a
storm.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.41 SHEDS, PORCHES AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All zones. Sheds of 200 square feet or less will not require a zoning
permit. This pertains to stationary and moveable sheds. No additions or
accessory structures shall be allowed on properties that do not conform with
this chapter.
   (B)   All zones. A “porch” is defined as a covered or enclosed structure
used as an entrance to an existing building and does not protrude over eight
feet from the foundation. Porches of 200 square feet or less will not require a
zoning permit. The porch must be stationary and constructed in a manner which
is similar or complement the existing building.
   (C)   All zones. If the property is in the shoreland overlay district (from
Spirit Lake, from Blueberry River), the addition of the shed or porch must be
figured in for impervious surface calculations as determined by the Menahga
shoreland standard.
   (D)   All zones. All sheds must be constructed in a manner which is similar
or complement the existing buildings.
   (E)   Residential zones. No shipping containers will be allowed. Temporary
use of shipping containers will be allowed when used in conjunction with an
original active building permit, but no longer than 365 days. No extensions
will be allowed. Note: Some areas of the city may have private development
covenants that may prohibit their use, even temporarily. Please check your
property documents for covenants prior to using shipping containers.
   (F)   Residential zones. Sheds will only be allowed on parcels that have a
permanent primary structure on the property.
   (G)   Residential zones. The shed must be in the rear or side of a property
with a setback of five feet from the property line.
   (H)   Business zones (C-B, C-1, C-2, and I). Accessory buildings may be used
for purposes, which are permitted in the district where the business is
located. Any retail business that sells accessory buildings and sheds, may
occupy their commercial property for display and sales purposes.
   (I)   Business zones (I and C-2 only). Shipping containers will be allowed
for storage of business supplies and necessary equipment.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.42 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems. In addition to the building
setback, the collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar
energy systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building
on which the system is mounted or built, unless the collector and mounting
system has been explicitly engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and
setback standards are not violated.
   (B)   Ground-mounted systems’ total collector (panels) area shall not exceed
half the building footprint of the principal structure.
   (C)   Ground-mounted systems shall be exempt from impervious surface
standards if the soil under the collector (panel) is maintained and in a non-
compacted vegetation state.
   (D)   Ground-mounted systems are considered structures and shall meet
setback and height requirements.
   (E)   Solar collectors and solar energy systems with a cumulative area of 16
square feet or less are permitted in all zoning districts. They are exempt from
the provisions of this section. Examples of these systems include outdoor
accent lighting systems, power supply for traffic control systems, powering a
water pump for water gardens, telecommunication systems, backup power systems
during power outages, and similar solar energy systems if the system has a
cumulative area of 16 square feet or less.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.43 STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   The use of semitrailers, shipping containers, and other similar structures
or containers for storage on residentially zoned property for more than 90 days
in any one calendar year period is prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply
to construction storage trailers or other similar containers used on site
during a construction project for up to 365 days, provided all required permits
are obtained for the project, the project remains in compliance, and the
trailer is removed from the lot upon completion of the project. The use of
semitrailers, shipping containers, and other similar structures or containers
for storage is allowed in the C-2 and industrial zones; other ordinance
provisions may apply.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.44 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. Planned unit development requires the assistance of
professional planning and usually involves the approval of multiple agencies or
other governmental bodies. The city will allow these types of developments to
use community wells and sewer systems, whenever access to the city water and
sewer infrastructure will not be economically feasible. Where circumstances are
favorable, planned unit developments (PUDs) provide more latitude in land use
than normal development to allow for planning, clustering facilities,
consolidating green space and internal recreational amenities.
   (B)   Types of PUDs permissible. Planned unit developments (PUDs) are
allowed for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built
sites, or conversions of existing buildings and land. Deviation from the
minimum lot size standards of zoning district of this chapter is allowed if the
standards in this section are met.
   (C)   Processing of PUDs. Planned unit developments must be processed as a
conditional use and the application, review, and cost reimbursement procedures
applicable to a major subdivision as expressed of this code, shall be followed
to consider and act on a PUD. An expansion to an existing commercial PUD
involving six or less new dwelling units or sites since the date this chapter
was adopted is permissible as a permitted use provided the total project
density does not exceed the allowable densities calculated in the project
density evaluation procedures in §
151.10. Approval cannot occur until all applicable environmental reviews are
complete.
   (D)   Application for a PUD. The applicant for a PUD must submit the
following documents:
      (1)   Site plan and/or plat;
      (2)   Locations of property boundaries;
      (3)   Surface water features;
      (4)   Land proposed structures and other facilities;
      (5)   Land alterations;
      (6)   Sewage treatment and water supply systems (where public systems
will not be provided);
      (7)   Topographic contours at two-foot intervals or less;
      (8)   Identification of buildings and portions of the project that are
residential, commercial, or a combination of the two (if project combines
commercial and residential elements);
      (9)   Covenants and incorporating documents providing for a homeowner’s
association, where appropriate;
      (10)   Vegetation removal, select cutting;
      (11)   Internal private access roads on common property;
      (12)   Maintenance of all facilities by the association;
      (13)   Parking for two vehicles per unit;
      (14)   Screened or inside storage areas;
      (15)   Subdivision by plat or condominium plan;
      (16)   Recreation facilities as required by the Planning Commission;
      (17)   Screening and landscaping as required by the Planning Commission;
and
      (18)   DNR must be contacted before final city approval if within
shoreland area.
   (E)   Minimum density requirements, new development (R-R).
      (1)   Minimum land required: 5 acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot size for dwelling, single family per unit: 3,200 square
feet.
   (F)   New multi-family buildings shall be designed by an architect and shall
be compatible in appearance with the surrounding land use.
   (G)   New multi-family building shall have two-hour fire rated party floors
and party walls.
   (H)   Preliminary submission, all PUDs.
      (1)   Boundary survey;
      (2)   Two-foot contour interval topography;
      (3)   Specimen tree location;
      (4)   Locations of existing structures;
      (5)   Locations of structures on adjoining property;
      (6)   On-site soils data;
      (7)   Proposed facilities;
      (8)   Buildings;
      (9)   Recreation facilities;
      (10)   Drives and parking;
      (11)   Grading limits;
      (12)   Planting;
      (13)   Lighting and signing;
      (14)   Sewage disposal system concept;
      (15)   Water supply system concept;
      (16)   Preliminary drainage and stormwater management plan;
      (17)   Additional plans as necessary to define project;
      (18)   Phasing should also be indicated;
      (19)   Preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plan;
      (20)   Floor plans and elevation views of new structures; and
      (21)   Operation concept.
   (I)   Final submission, all PUDs.
      (1)   Multi-family building and other structure plans by architect;
      (2)   Clustered sewage disposal plans by engineer;
      (3)   Clustered water supply system concept by engineer;
      (4)   Drive and parking plans with elevations;
      (5)   Drainage, stormwater, and erosion and sediment control plans;
      (6)   Planting plans;
      (7)   Recreational facilities plan;
      (8)   DNR approval as required;
      (9)   MPCA, Minnesota Health Department and Corps of Engineers approval
where appropriate;
      (10)   Title opinion, or title company commitment, or owner’s title
policy;
      (11)   Surveyors plat check on plat or condominium plan;
      (12)   Final covenants;
      (13)   Final plat or final condominium plan by surveyor;
      (14)   Financial assurance of 125% of the construction cost of common
facilities; and
      (15)   Development contract.
   (J)   As built plans. As built plans shall be filed with the city on sewer
and water systems and stormwater drainage systems.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.45 EXTRACTIVE USES.
   There are no commercial extractive uses allowed in the City of Menahga.
“Extractive use” means the use of land and/or buildings or structures for the
removal of gravel, stone, sand, earth, clay, fill, mineral, or other similar
substances for construction, industrial, or manufacturing purposes.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.46 LANDFILLS.
   No landfills are allowed in the City of Menahga. “Landfill” means a site for
the disposal of waste materials such as rubbish, garbage, trash, or similar
materials.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.47 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   In districts where permitted or allowed by conditional use, a bed and
breakfast inn shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   The bed and breakfast inn shall be part of an owner-occupied
residential structure and shall be owner-operated.
   (B)   The use shall comply with applicable federal, state, county and city
rules and regulations.
   (C)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from its
single-family character.
   (D)   All guestrooms, and access to guestrooms, shall be located within the
principal residential structure.
   (E)   The total number of units shall be limited to four, not including
owner.
   (F)   The property must meet all density requirements of the chapter as a
single-family dwelling.
   (G)   Guests are limited to a length of stay of no more than 14 consecutive
days.
   (H)   No food preparation or cooking facilities shall be conducted within
any of the guestrooms.
   (I)   All requirements of the zoning district must be followed.
   (J)   Owner shall provide licensure information to the city before operation
shall begin.
   (K)   No property may be leased or rented to individuals greater than a
ratio of two people per bedroom, plus one person (e.g. four bedrooms would
allow nine people).
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.48 PROPOSED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. To establish predictable and balanced regulations
that protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of telecommunications services and
facilities including commercial wireless telecommunication services in Menahga;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
standards;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antenna
failure and weather-related occurrences through structural standards, careful
siting, and setback requirements; and
      (4)   Encourage the use of existing towers and buildings to accommodate
commercial wireless telecommunication service antennas in order to minimize the
number of towers needed to serve the city.
   (B)   Permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to erect, construct in place, place or re-erect any tower, unless
it shall replace a like tower, without first making application to the city and
securing a permit. A change in construction, dimension, lighting design or
design type shall also require a permit. The placement of antennas on
previously approved towers may be administratively approved by the city Zoning
Administrator, once it is reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Tower and antenna design requirements. Proposed or modified towers and
antennas shall meet the following design requirements:
      (1)   Only permitted in the rural residential (R-R) zoning district;
      (2)   Towers and antennas shall blend into the surrounding environment
through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment except in
instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities;
      (3)   No tower shall have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in
any way, any platform, catwalk, crow’s nest, or like structure, except during
periods of construction or repair;
      (4)   Towers and their antennas shall be certified by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer to conform to applicable state structural
building standards;
      (5)   Towers and their antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the
provisions of the National Electrical Code; and
      (6)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive
resistant material.
   (D)   Tower setbacks. Towers and all accessory structures or buildings shall
conform to the following minimum setback requirements:
      (1)   Towers shall be set back from all property lines and existing
structures an amount equal to the height of the structure;
      (2)   Guy wires for towers shall be located no closer than 25 feet to any
property line and shall meet the setback of the underlying land use district
with respect to the public road right-of-way; and
      (3)   Suitable protective anti-climbing fencing, with a minimum height of
six feet shall be provided around any tower and guy wires.
   (E)   Colocation requirements. All commercial wireless telecommunication
towers erected, constructed, or located within the city shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Documentation of the area to be served including maps demonstrating
the size of communication cells and a search ring for the antenna location. A
narrative describing a search ring for the request, with not less than one-mile
radius clearly explaining why the site was selected, what existing structures
were available and why they are not suitable as locations or co-locations;
      (2)   Documentation that the communications equipment planned for the
proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or
building within the search ring of the service area due to one or more of the
following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned equipment at a
reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or
qualified radio frequency engineer and the interference cannot be prevented at
a reasonable cost;
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius that are 60 feet or over in height that cannot accommodate the planned
equipment at a height necessary to function reasonably as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer;
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building;
      (3)   Any proposed tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically,
and in all respects, to accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and
comparable antennas for at least two additional users if the tower is over 99
feet in height, or for at least one additional user if the tower is between 35
and 99 feet in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept mounting at varying
heights; and
      (4)   An agreement stating that the site will be designed for not less
than three users with applicant and property owner commitment to co-location,
whereby, any prohibition of additional users on a tower will be considered a
violation of the permit and city policy. The agreement shall also include a
statement that any unused or abandoned tower shall be removed by the property
owner and/or applicant. Said agreement shall be signed by the applicant and the
property owner and shall be attached to and become a part of the permit.
   (F)   Antennas mounted on existing buildings or towers. The placement of
telecommunication antennas including wireless telecommunication antennas on
existing buildings, towers or structures, shall meet the requirements of the
underlying land use district and this section. A site plan and building plan
must be submitted to the city as part of the land use permitting process. Where
a tower is nonconforming due to the requirements of this section additional
telecommunication antennas may be permitted to be placed on the tower after
being reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and city Zoning
Administrator.
   (G)   Accessory utility buildings. All buildings and structures accessory to
a tower shall:
      (1)   Be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment and shall meet the height and setback limitations as established
for each land use district; and
      (2)   Have ground-mounted equipment screened from view by suitable
vegetation, except where a design of non-vegetative screening better reflects
and complements the architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (H)   Tower lighting. A tower shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not have affixed or attached to it in any way except during time of
repair or installation, any lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating
device, except as required by the Federal Aviation Administration or the
Federal Communications Commission or state agency. When incorporated into the
approved design of the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields,
parking lots, or similar areas may be attached to the tower.
   (I)   Abandoned or unused towers. Abandoned or unused towers and associated
facilities shall be removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at
the site unless a time extension is approved by the Zoning Administrator. In
the event that a tower is not removed within the 12 months of the cessation of
operations at a site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the
city and the costs of removal assessed against the property.
   (J)   Public safety telecommunications interference. Commercial wireless
telecommunications services shall not interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All applications shall include adequate information that
will be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission before a permit may be
issued. Before the introduction of new service or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least ten calendar days in
advance of any changes and allow the city to monitor interference levels during
the testing process.
   (K)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs
other than warning or equipment information signs is prohibited.
   (L)   Nonconforming towers. In order to avoid requiring new towers and to
minimize the number of towers needed to serve the city, the following
provisions shall apply to nonconforming towers. Telecommunication towers in
existence at the time of this section’s adoption may be permitted to increase
tower height after being issued a conditional use permit. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall consider the following criteria as part of the
conditional use permit process:
      (1)   Tower safety concerns including tower collapse, falling ice, and
airplane traffic;
      (2)   Land use character and history of tower(s);
      (3)   Comparative visual impact to the surrounding lands of the proposed
tower height increase;
      (4)   Disturbance or conflict with agricultural uses on the property; and
      (5)   Other factors which tend to reduce conflicts or are incompatible
with the character and need of the area.
   (M)   Screening and landscaping requirement. A screening and landscaping
plan designed to screen the base of the tower, accessory utility buildings,
utility structures, and security fencing shall be submitted. The plan shall
show the location, size, quantity, and type of landscaping materials. Landscape
materials shall be capable of screening all year and must be six feet in height
by the end of the second growing season. Gravel or other durable surface or
other weed prevention measures shall be applied within the fenced area to
prevent the growth of weeds. A maintenance plan for landscaped materials shall
also be submitted.
   (N)   Additional submittal requirements. In addition to the information
required elsewhere, applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   A report from a licensed professional engineer that describes the
commercial wireless telecommunication service tower’s capacity, including the
number and type of antennas that it can accommodate;
      (2)   A letter of intent from the commercial wireless telecommunication
service tower owner committing the tower owner and successors to allow the
shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use;
      (3)   The location of all public and private airports within a three-mile
radius of the tower site;
      (4)   Applicant must obtain FAA approval and/or provide documentation
that FAA approval is not needed;
      (5)   Applicant must obtain FCC licensure and approval as required for
various communications applications. No interference with local television and
radio reception will be allowed;
      (6)   An intermodulation study which provides a technical evaluation of
existing and proposed transmissions and indicates all potential interference
problems, only if that is the basis for not colocating;
      (7)   The applicant must submit proof of liability and worker’s
compensation;
      (8)   For towers over 500 feet, an environmental assessment worksheet
(EAW) is required, and the applicant shall be responsible to provide the city
with all information required to complete the EAW prior to the issuance of a
permit from the city; and
      (9)   The owner of the tower shall provide the city with an acceptable
financial guarantee in an amount equal to one and one-half times the cost to
remove the tower and related infrastructure, including footings and other
underground improvements to a depth of 36 inches below existing grade, and to
restore the site. Failure to remove the structure shall be cause for the city
to remove the tower and associated equipment at the expense of the property
owners.
   (O)   Towers not requiring a permit. Permits are not required for the
following:
      (1)   A satellite earth station antenna four feet in diameter or less,
located in an industrial or commercial district, meeting required setbacks;
      (2)   A satellite earth station antenna three feet or less in diameter,
meeting the required setbacks; or
      (3)   A tower less than 50 feet as measured from the ground.
   (P)   Personal communication towers.
      (1)   Placement. Communications towers such as television antennas, HAM
radio towers, etc., shall be situated in the rear or side yard without
encroaching on the front yard area.
      (2)   Setbacks. Minimum setbacks of a tower from any lot line shall be
ten feet. If a tower and/or antenna are not rigidly attached to a building,
then the minimum setback shall be equal to the height of the tower and/or
antenna. However, if a tower and antenna are rigidly attached to a building and
the tower base is on the ground, the minimum setback may be equal to the
distance from the highest point of attachment to the top of the tower and/or
antenna.
      (3)   Tower height. The maximum height of the tower and/or antenna shall
be 40 feet from average grade around the principal structures, or 20 feet above
the roof ridgeline of the principal structure on said lot. There shall be no
more than one communication tower per parcel.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.49 AUTO SALVAGE YARDS.
   (A)   Auto salvage yards are to be allowed in industrial-zoned property.
   (B)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Parts salvage is allowed.
      (2)   Screening sufficient to block view from 100 feet is required.
      (3)   A defined perimeter must be approved and maintained.
      (4)   Stacking is not allowed.
      (5)   This facility shall not be allowed in any drainage way or wetland.
      (6)   Public road access is required.
      (7)   Fencing in addition to the screening may be required by the
Planning Commission.
      (8)   Crushing of vehicles or similar uses shall be limited to the
following hours of operation: Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.;
Saturday, 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
      (9)   Crushing of vehicles or similar uses shall be prohibited on
federally recognized holidays.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.50 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises or not under
the custody and control of the owner, or other person, either by leash, cord,
or chain, or otherwise controlled or restrained.
      CHICKEN. A female chicken or hen. A rooster or male chicken is expressly
excluded from the definition of CHICKEN and is prohibited.
      CHICKEN COOP. A structure providing housing for chickens made of wood or
other similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
      CHICKEN RUN. A fenced outside yard for the keeping and exercising of
chickens.
      OWNER. The resident, property owner, custodian or keeper of any chicken.
      PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts
of land.
   (B)   Allowed zoning districts.
      (1)   The keeping of chickens is allowed in the rural residential (R-R)
zoning district.
      (2)   The keeping of chickens is allowed in all other zoning districts
however, a minimum parcel size of 2½ acres is required.
   (C)   Chickens limited. It is unlawful for any person to own, control, keep,
maintain or harbor hen chickens on any residential premises in the city unless
issued a permit to do so as provided herein.
      (1)   Residential tenants. In the case of rental residential property,
including multi-family residential property, the property owner must obtain a
permit and written permission must be given by the property owner to the tenant
in order for a tenant to keep or harbor chickens on said residential premises.
      (2)   Number limited. No permit shall be issued for the keeping or
harboring of more than 12 hen chickens.
      (3)   Roosters prohibited. The keeping of roosters or male chickens is
prohibited.
   (D)   Permit. The granting of a permit under this section shall be in the
sole discretion of the city. No person shall maintain a chicken coop and/or
chicken run unless granted a permit by the city. The permit shall be subject to
all terms and conditions of this section and any additional conditions deemed
necessary by the city to protect the public health, safety and welfare,
including any state or federal laws. The necessary permit may be obtained from
the City Clerk’s office. Included with the information required prior to
issuance of the permit must be a scaled diagram that indicates the location of
any chicken coop and chicken run, and the approximate size and distance from
adjoining structures and property lines. The owner must also obtain written
approval of the keeping of chickens from all abutting property owners. Such
written approval from abutting property owners must be submitted to the city
before a permit is granted. A permit for the keeping of chickens may be revoked
or suspended by the Council for any violation of this section following written
notice and a public hearing.
   (E)   Chicken confinement. Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains
or harbors hen chickens must keep them confined on the premises at all times in
a chicken coop or chicken run while in the city. Any chicken coop and/or
chicken run shall be screened with a solid fence or landscaped buffer with a
minimum height of four feet. Any chicken coop and chicken run shall be at least
20 feet from any residential structure or any other premises on any adjacent
lots.
   (F)   Chicken coops and chicken runs.
      (1)   All chicken coops and chicken runs must be located within the rear
yard subject to the required setbacks for the principal building and at least
20 feet from any dwelling or any other premises or any adjacent lots. All
chicken coops must be a minimum of four square feet per chicken in size and
must not exceed six feet in total height. Attached, fenced-in chicken runs must
not exceed 20 square feet per chicken and fencing must not exceed six feet in
total height. Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire
materials and may allow chickens to contact the ground. Chicken feed must be
kept in metal, predator-proof containers. Chicken manure shall not be placed in
yard compost piles.
      (2)   Chicken coops must either be:
         (a)   Elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
         (b)   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed
using rodent resistant construction.
      (3)   Chicken coops are not allowed to in any part of a home and/or
garage.
      (4)   Chickens must be secured in a chicken coop from sunset to sunrise
each day.
   (G)   Conditions and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains or harbors chickens shall permit the premises where the chickens are
kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to
permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors are carried to
adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and chicken run
authorized by permit under this section may be inspected at any reasonable time
by the city Zoning Administrator or other agent of the city. Slaughter and
breeding of chickens on any premises within the city is prohibited.
   (H)   Violations. Any person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or harbors
chickens in the city limits without obtaining or maintaining a current permit
or after a permit has been suspended or revoked by Council action shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Violations of this section may also constitute a
nuisance and a person in violation may be liable for civil damages, including
costs and attorney fees to remedy the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.51 KEEPING OF HORSES.
   (A)   All animals shall be fenced in and the owner shall provide site plans
depicting locations on an aerial photograph. Any animals allowed to free range
shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (B)   There shall be no pollution of any waters of the state.
   (C)   There shall be no manure accumulation that constitutes a public
nuisance or threat to any water of the state.
   (D)   On parcels sized five acres or larger, two horses shall be allowed.
   (E)      The ratio of two horses per five acres shall apply.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.52 KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS.
   The keeping of farm animals is allowed in the rural residential (R-R) zoning
district. However, a minimum parcel size of 20 acres is required.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.53 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND CAMPING.
   The intent of this section is to allow for temporary recreational use or
camping on privately owned property.
   (A)   All recreational vehicles (RVs) must be designated to operate on roads
without a special permit and must have a current license. These provisions
apply to all recreational vehicles, including fish houses that are licensed as
such.
      (1)   RVs must meet dwelling setbacks requirements for the zone they are
located in.
      (2)   Prior to placing an RV, the occupant must have the permission of
the property owner. The permission must be written when the property owner is
not available on site while the RV is present.
   (B)   Properties with principal dwelling. Any owner or tenant on a lot may
use a recreational vehicle for guests for a period of up to 14 consecutive days
or a total, not to exceed 28 cumulative days in a calendar year.
   (C)   Properties where a dwelling is being constructed.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is allowed in conjunction with a land use
permit for construction of a principal structure.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is allowed during construction, with an
approved land use permit.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.54 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU).
   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is a self-contained residential unit that
meets the requirements of the Minnesota State Building Code. ADUs are permanent
homes that are legally part of a larger property that includes a standard
single-family house. ADUs can be part of the principal building or they can be
in a detached accessory building on the same property. Accessory dwelling unit
(ADU) requires a permit on a conforming residential lot and shall comply with
the following standards:
   (A)   One ADU is allowed per parcel;
   (B)   Maximum square footage of the ADU shall be 700 square feet;
   (C)   All required setbacks of the underlying zone shall be met;
   (D)   Impervious coverage limits of the underlying zone shall be met;
   (E)   An ADU must be located on the same parcel as the primary dwelling. If
the proposed ADU is on a vacant adjacent lot, it shall be consolidated into one
parcel to construct the ADU;
   (F)   Maximum height shall not exceed the maximum height of the underlying
zone;
   (G)   Detached ADU shall not be constructed closer than 10 feet to the main
dwelling;
   (H)   Conversion of garage space to an ADU shall require replacement of the
garage space. Space within a garage that exceeds what is necessary for two
vehicles may be converted without replacement; and
   (I)   On-site parking shall be required for the occupants of the ADU.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.55 COMMERCIAL STORAGE (MINI STORAGE).
   (A)   Commercial storage is allowed in the C-1 district, C-2 district and
industrial (I) district. For this section, the following definitions are
applicable: “mini-warehouse” or “self-service storage facility” shall mean a
business facility other than a storage warehouse, with buildings divided into
separate compartments or a building with open storage for lease that may
include climate-controlled units exclusively used for the storage of non-
explosive and non-volatile materials and used to meet the temporary storage
needs of households and small businesses, with no commercial transactions
permitted other than the rental of the storage units or facility. This does not
include the rental of trucks or equipment as an accessory use.
   (B)   All commercial storage shall be permitted by conditional use permit
(CUP).
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.56 SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   Dwelling units used as short-term rentals must be registered with the city
prior to operation. “Short-term rentals” are defined as dwelling units rented
for a period of less than 30 consecutive days, for tourist or transient use.
New owners must re-register and registration cannot be transferred from one
property owner to the next. Each unit must have its own registration. All units
must have the appropriate licensure from the State of Minnesota Department of
Health. Occupancy limits are three occupants per bedroom plus one occupant per
unit, which may be adjusted from time to time by the City Council resolution.
Registrations expire each year on December 31.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.57 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Determine if applications are complete and comply with the terms of
this chapter;
      (2)   Direct or conduct inspections of sewage systems and other uses of
the land to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter including,
but not limited to, maps, amendments, zoning or use permits, conditional use
permits, variances, appeals and applications, and a separate file for future
conditions or expiration of permits;
      (4)   Review, file, and forward applications for appeals, variances,
conditional uses, and zoning amendments;
      (5)   To review and approve all metes and bounds property divisions
within the city;
      (6)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter by reviewing complaints and
pursuing contacts with any violator by standard procedures as adopted and
modified from time to time;
      (7)   Mail notices concerning public hearings for variances, conditional
uses, and zoning changes;
      (8)   Under the direction of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission,
prepare and distribute meeting agendas at least one week before the meeting;
      (9)   Attend meetings and provide research and findings to the Board of
Adjustment/Planning Commission;
      (10)   Issue permitted land use/zoning permits upon application for
structures on lots conforming to this chapter when the conditions of this
chapter are met; to issue conditional use permits when directed by the City
Council; to issue notices of a zoning change when directed by the City Council;
      (11)   To mail a copy of the findings to applicants;
      (12)   To file copies of conditional use permits and variances with the
County Recorder;
      (13)   To provide notice of public hearings and supporting documentation
to the DNR when required by this chapter or state law or where shoreland
management controls are to be considered;
      (14)   To ensure that the City Council, Planning Commission, and Board of
Adjustment review land use applications or public hearing applications as
prescribed by state statutes;
      (15)   To conduct periodic and final inspections with a member of the
Planning and Zoning Committee of property subject to conditions of approval
relating to variances, conditional use permits, and other land use
applications; and
      (16)   Keep the city updated regarding state and county land use
regulation changes.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.58 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS (CUP).
   (A)   Conditional use permits shall run with the property for structures or
other specified uses, as recommended by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing and approved by the City Council.
      (1)   All applications for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date, accompanied by a
certificate of survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the
details of the proposal and an accurate legal description, along with the
appropriate fee. The fee or contract owner of the property shall sign the
application.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the
legal section of the official newspaper at least ten days before the public
hearing.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice and supporting
documentation at least ten days before this hearing to the DNR, if the proposed
is in shoreland.
      (4)   At the applicant’s option, the applicant may request a sketch plan
review with no action by the Planning Commission and with no fee by giving 14
days’ notice thereof to the Zoning Administrator, meeting time permitted. The
city requires that before any major development project that it would be best
for the developer to meet with the City Engineer, Planning and Zoning
Commission, people from the highway departments (County Engineer, Minnesota
Department of Transportation and city Street Supervisor, whichever applies),
and the city Water and Sewer Supervisor to discuss how the development will
affect all the parties involved. This group will be referred as the Design
Review Team (DRT) and will continue through the development process at stages
at 30% and 60% completion.
      (5)   Submissions for CUP. The applicant shall complete the conditional
use permit application approved by the Planning Commission. The application
shall contain submittal requirements, approval criteria, consideration
procedure, and city contact information. The city shall not accept applications
where the applicant has past due fees or charges due to the city until the
account is made current.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall accept no conditional use permit
application from a contractor or property owner having outstanding violations.
Conditional use permits can only be requested by contractors or property owners
with outstanding violations upon resolution of the violation to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
      (7)   In permitting a new conditional use or alteration of an existing
conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to the
standards and requirements expressly specified by this section, additional
conditions that the Planning Commission considers necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding area or the city as a whole. These conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
         (b)   Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings;
         (c)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
         (d)   Increasing the street width;
         (e)   Increasing or decreasing the number of required off-street
parking spaces;
         (f)   Limiting signs’ number, size, location, or lighting;
         (g)   Requiring berming, fencing screening, landscaping, or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
         (h)   Designating sites for open space;
         (i)   Stormwater runoff management treatment;
         (j)   Reducing impervious surfaces;
         (k)   Increasing setbacks from the ordinary high-water level;
         (l)   Restoration of wetlands;
         (m)   Limiting vegetation removal and/or riparian vegetation
restoration;
         (n)   Provisions for the location, design, and use of structures,
sewage treatment systems, water supply systems, watercraft launching and
docking areas, and parking areas; and/or
         (o)   Other conditions the zoning authority deems necessary.
      (8)   In evaluating plans to construct sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes, conditions to
prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures,
vehicles, and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters
assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation shall be attached to permits.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide the issue considering
the following. The following must be met:
      (1)   The use or development is an appropriate conditional use in the
land use zone;
      (2)   The use or development, with conditions, conforms to the
comprehensive land use plan;
      (3)   The use with the condition is compatible with the existing
neighborhood;
      (4)   The use with conditions would not be injurious to the public
health, safety, welfare, decency, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, or
prosperity of the city;
      (5)   For conventional subdivisions, the property contains physical
constraints, which make it unable to be developed by the conservation
subdivision method; and
      (6)   The following must be considered:
         (a)   The conditional use should not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose permitted
on that property, nor substantially diminish or impair values in the immediate
area.
         (b)   The conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominantly in the area.
         (c)   The conditional requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services will not harm the community's economic welfare.
         (d)   The conditional use will have vehicular approaches to the
property designed to avoid traffic congestion or indifference with traffic on
surrounding public thoroughfares.
         (e)   Adequate measures have been taken to provide sufficient off-
street parking and loading space for the proposed use.
         (f)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, and vibration, so none of these
will constitute a nuisance and to control lights and signs in such a manner
that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
         (g)   The conditional use will not result in the destruction, loss, or
damage of a natural, scenic, or historical feature of major significance.
         (h)   The conditional use will promote the prevention and control of
pollution of the ground and surface waters, including sedimentation and
management of nutrients.
   (C)   When costs to the city in processing and reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional services the
city may need to retain in reviewing permits.
   (D)   Violations of the conditions of a conditional use permit shall
automatically suspend the permit. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
review of the violation. The Planning Commission shall recommend conditions for
reinstating the access or revocation to the City Council. The City Council
shall decide to reinstate or revoke the suspended permit.
   (E)   A CUP application that has been denied shall not be submitted, in an
exact or substantially similar form, for at least 12 months from the date of
denial.
   (F)   Appeals from the action of the city shall be filed with district court
within 30 days after Council action.
   (G)   The conditional use permit shall be filed with the County Recorder
within 45 days.
   (H)   The conditional use permit runs with the land and applies to
subsequent purchasers so long as the conditions are met.
   (I)   Planned unit development procedure and submissions.
   (J)   The applicant may submit a sketch plan to the Planning Commission for
review and discussion at least 14 days before the meeting.
   (K)   Based on the discussion, the applicant can formally apply by
submitting preliminary documents, prepared with professional help, including,
as a minimum, the CUP application, and further shall contain the following:
      (1)   Proposed concept of plan operation;
      (2)   Proposed plat or floor plan, if applicable;
      (3)   Proposed recreational amenities;
      (4)   Proposed timing;
      (5)   Proposed final security; and
      (6)   Proposed development contract.
   (L)   The Planning Commission shall review the submissions and make a
recommendation to the City Council within a reasonable timeframe with a
complete finding of facts.
   (M)   The City Council shall review the recommendations and decide within a
reasonable time, subject to the 60-day rule.
   (N)   The applicant shall then proceed within the time frame accepted under
the preliminary proposal to provide final documents as required, including:
      (1)   Financial security;
      (2)   Development contract;
      (3)   Title opinion;
      (4)   Final plat or floor plan;
      (5)   Surveyors plat check;
      (6)   Final covenants and associated documents;
      (7)   Final schedule;
      (8)   Final site plan, which will control development; and
      (9)   MPCA/MDH approval letter on sewage system and water supply.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.59 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be granted when the applicant can demonstrate
there are practical difficulties in complying with the code. Variances shall
only be granted when it is demonstrated that granting of the variance will be
in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances shall not create a use not provided for in a zoning
district.
   (C)   Variances shall run with the property and shall be transferable with
the property. Variances shall not be transferred to other properties.
   (D)   Variances shall run with the property for structures or other
specified uses after a public hearing.
   (E)   All applications for a variance shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator 30 days before the hearing date, accompanied by a certificate of
survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the proposal's
details, an accurate legal description, and the appropriate fee. The fee or
contract owner of the property shall sign the application.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the
legal section of the official newspaper at least ten days before the public
hearing.
   (G)   The Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice, with supporting
documentation, at least ten days before this hearing to the DNR if the proposed
is in shoreland.
   (H)   At the applicant’s option, the applicant may request a sketch plan
review with no action by the Board of Adjustment and with no fee by giving 14
days’ notice thereof to the Zoning Administrator, meeting time permitted.
   (I)   Submissions for variances. The applicant shall complete the variance
application approved by the Board of Adjustment. The application shall contain
submittal requirements, approval criteria, consideration procedure, and city
contact information. The city shall not accept applications where the applicant
has past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
   (J)   Variances shall be decided within the required time frame with
consideration for the following:
      (1)   The applicant establishes that there are practical difficulties, as
defined in this chapter, in complying with the official control;
      (2)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner;
      (3)   The strict interpretation of this chapter would be impractical
because of circumstances relating to lot size, shape, topographic or other
characteristics of the property not created by the landowner;
      (4)   The deviation from this chapter with any attached conditions will
still be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter and the
comprehensive plan;
      (5)   The variance will not create a land use not permitted in the zone;
      (6)   The variance will not alter the essential character of the
locality;
      (7)   The variance is not for economic reasons alone, but reasonable use
of the property does not exist under this chapter;
      (8)   The Board of Adjustment shall require the property owner to address
the following conditions, when related to and proportional to the impact, to
meet the purpose of this chapter, to protect adjacent properties, and the
public interest:
         (a)   Advanced stormwater runoff management treatment;
         (b)   Reducing impervious surfaces;
         (c)   Increasing setbacks from the ordinary high-water level;
         (d)   Restoration of wetlands;
         (e)   Limiting vegetation removal and/or riparian vegetation
restoration;
         (f)   Provisions for the location, design, and use of structures,
sewage treatment systems, water supply systems, watercraft launching and
docking areas, and parking areas; and
         (g)   Other conditions the zoning authority deems necessary.
      (9)   In evaluating plans to construct sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes, conditions to
prevent erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures,
vehicles, and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters
assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation shall be attached to permits;
      (10)   When costs to the city in processing and reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for additional costs. Such expenses may include but are not limited to payroll,
mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional services the city may
need to retain in reviewing permits.
      (11)   The Zoning Administrator shall accept no variance application from
a contractor or property owner having outstanding violations. Variances can
only be requested by contractors or property owners with outstanding violations
upon resolution of the violation to the satisfaction of the Planning
Commission.
      (12)   A variance application that has been denied shall not be
submitted, in an exact or substantially similar form, for at least 12 months
from the date of denial.
      (13)   Violations of the conditions of a variance shall void the
variance.
      (14)   Appeals from the action of the City Council shall be filed with
the district court within 30 days after Council action.
      (15)   The variance shall be filed with the County Recorder within 45
days.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. 151.53, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.60 INTERIM USE PERMIT (IUP).
   (A)   Interim uses shall run with the property for structures or other
specified uses, as recommended by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing and approved by the City Council. All interim uses are temporary and
shall terminate on a specific date or at the occurrence of a specific event,
which shall be designated when the permit is approved.
   (B)   All applications for an interim use permit shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date, accompanied by a
certificate of survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the
details of the proposal and an accurate legal description, along with the
appropriate fee.
   (C)   The fee or contract owner of the property shall sign the application.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the
legal section of the official newspaper at least 10 days before the public
hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice at least ten days
before this hearing to the DNR if the proposed is in shoreland.
   (E)   Submissions for interim use permit. The submissions for an IUP shall
be the same as those required for a conditional use permit, as detailed.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall accept no interim use permit
application from a contractor or property owner having outstanding violations.
Interim use permits can only be requested by contractors or property owners
with outstanding violations upon resolution of the violation to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
   (G)   In permitting a new interim use or alteration of an existing interim
use, the provisions of §
151.58 shall apply to allow the Planning Commission to impose conditions on the
approval.
   (H)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide the issue with
consideration to the following:
      (1)   The use or development is an appropriate interim use in the land
use zone;
      (2)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty;
      (3)   Permission of the use will not impose additional costs on the
public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future;
and
      (4)   The user agrees to any conditions that the governing body deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   (I)   The provisions of §
151.58 must be considered as they would with a conditional use permit request.
   (J)   When costs to the city in processing and reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for additional costs. Such expenses may include but are not limited to payroll,
mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional services the city may
need to retain in reviewing permits. The city may require establishing an
escrow account when the application is made.
   (K)   Violations of the conditions of an interim use permit shall
automatically suspend the permit. The Planning Commission shall conduct a
review of the violation. The Planning Commission shall recommend conditions for
reinstating the permit or revocation to the City Council. The City Council
shall decide to reinstate or revoke the suspended permit.
   (L)   Failure by the owner to act on an interim use permit within the
approved time limit shall void the permit.
   (M)   Appeals from the action of the city shall be filed with district court
within 30 days after Council action.
   (N)   The interim use permit runs with the land and applies to subsequent
purchasers of the land so long as the conditions are being met.
   (O)   A change in this code may terminate an interim use.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.61 LAND USE ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits are required for all new structures, and any change in
structure dimensions, structural components, construction or repair of a city
sewage system, and any grading and filling in shoreland are not exempted by
this chapter. Permits shall only be issued to the owner of the property.
   (B)   Where a proposed use requires the action of the Board of Adjustment,
Planning Commission, or Council or posting of financial security, said action
shall occur. The conditional use permit, variance, zoning district change,
final plat plan approval, metes, and bound division approval shall be issued,
or security posted before the zoning permit is issued.
   (C)   The city shall only accept applications where the applicant has past
due fees or charges due to the city once the account is made current.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall accept no applications from a property
having outstanding violations.
   (E)   The required permits shall contain the parcel number of the property,
the signature of the fee or contract owner, and any other reasonable
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Lot corners shall be visible on the lot. The Zoning Administrator may
require a new survey when stakes are not visible or have been removed through
erosion, construction, or other action and require a new certificate with
existing and recorded dimensions. The decision of the Zoning Administrator may
be appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission and forwarded to the City
Council for a final decision.
   (G)   Where a permit has been issued but no action has occurred within 24
months, the zoning permit shall be null and void. After that time a new
application must be submitted, and a new fee must be paid.
   (H)   Granting of a permit shall occur when all requirements of this chapter
have been met but shall not be considered a statement of compliance with
regional, state, or federal codes, statutes, or laws or approval of the design
of the structure or accessories, or description of the property. Subsequent
actions of the Zoning Administrator shall not be considered acceptance of
structural components or quality but rather to determine general compliance
with this chapter.
   (I)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that any violation of the
permit or other section of this chapter has occurred, the access shall become
null and void.
   (J)   As determined by the Zoning Administrator, additional permits may be
required.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.62 FEES.
   (A)   The Council shall adopt a schedule of fees from time to time for all
permits. No permit shall be issued, or request brought before the Board of
Adjustment or Planning Commission until the fees are paid. All late
applications or after the fact applications shall require an additional fee
whether the permit is issued or not.
   (B)   The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has any
past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.63 FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications will not be accepted as complete where an applicant has
any utility charges, delinquent taxes, delinquent assessments or other fees
past due with the city or county. The past due account must be paid to bring
the account current before an application will be accepted.
   (B)      When costs associated with processing or reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees and other professional services the
city may need to hire in reviewing permits. Outstanding fees shall be paid
before issuance of the permit and any construction of the project begins.
   (C)   The developer may be required to provide for financial security of the
project, prior to the project being started. The amount to be paid upfront will
be decided on a case-by-case basis with input from the Design Review Team (DRT)
and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.64 AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may adopt amendments by a two-thirds vote to either this
chapter or the zoning map in relation to the land uses within a district or the
boundaries of the district(s). Such amendments shall not be issued
indiscriminately but shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the
goals of the community or changes in the conditions of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-24-78; Am. Ord. passed 12- -24)
§ 151.65 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An amendment may be initiated by the Council, the Planning Commission
or by any property owners.
   (B)   If initiated by the City Council, the proposed amendment shall be
referred to the Planning Commission for up to 60 days for public hearing.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed changes and make a
recommendation to the Planning Commission.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall cause all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet of the proposed zoning district change to be notified by
regular mail and shall publish a hearing notice for either a zoning district
change or change to this chapter in the legal section of the official newspaper
at least ten days ahead of the public hearing.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall provide notice and proposed amendment to
the DNR at least 30 days ahead of the public hearing if the amendment includes
the shoreland area or shoreland management controls.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall hold the hearing and make a
recommendation within 60 days of the date of application to the City Council.
Adoption of a new zoning map shall require published notice only.
   (G)   The City Council shall review the recommendations and shall make a
timely decision. An amendment requires a majority vote to be enacted.
   (H)   The City Clerk shall publish a summary of the text of the change or
description of boundary change or a new zoning map (whichever is appropriate)
in the official newspaper within one week after action by the Council and shall
send a copy to the DNR.
(Ord. passed 12- -24)
Cross-reference
   Planning Commission, see §§
31.35 through
31.38
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7        10-10-83    Creating and awarding a cable communications franchise to
                     the West Central Telephone Association
                     Granting a non-exclusive gas distribution franchise to
10       8-28-91     Northern Minnesota Utilities, Division of UtiliCorp
                     United, Inc., for a period of 25 years
                     Agreement to extend and renew Ordinance 7 granting a
—      4-10-00     franchise to United Data- Vision to construct, operate and
                     maintain a cable communications system
                     Granting to Minnesota Power, Inc. the right to construct
—      5-8-00      and maintain an electric distribution and transmission
                     system within the city
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Code Cite Code Section
M.S. Code Cite            Code Section
12.25                     32.01,
                          32.05
12.31                     32.07
15.0418—15.0426         111.37
88.16—88.22             92.71
103G.245                  151.23
Chapter 105               151.02,
                          151.23
Chapter 115               151.02,
                          151.23
115.55                    151.09
Chapter 116               151.02,
                          151.23
Chapter 169               70.07,
                          71.01
169.01                    70.01,
                          71.01
169.045, Subdivision 8    70.08
169.19, Subdivision 8     70.08
169.345, Subdivision 2    70.08
169.522                   70.08
211B.045                  151.37
216B.1641                 151.04
237.162                   93.10
237.162, Subdivision 11   151.04
237.162, Subdivision 13   151.04
237.162, Subdivision 16   151.04
237.163                   93.10
245A.11                   151.16,
                          151.17
245A.14                   151.16 –
                          151.18
260.185                   130.02
300.06                    93.04
326.40                    50.02
327.10 – 327.28         151.24
327.31, Subdivision 6     151.03
340.119                   111.36
Chapter 340A              111.15,
                          111.30
340A.402(4)               111.55
340A.409                  111.32
340A.802                  111.32
343.21                    92.08
347.50                    92.08
347.51                    91.12
Chapter 349               112.01,
                          112.02
349.214                   112.03
364.03                    111.54
366.011                   31.08
366.012                   31.08
Chapter 379               151.02,
                          151.23
394.26                    31.43
415.01                    31.08
                          10.98,
Chapter 429               93.40,
                          150.41
429.061                   92.11
429.101                   10.98,
                          92.11
444.075, Subdivision 2    93.36
447.41                    31.51
Chapter 462               151.23
462.351 – 462.364       151.02
462.354, Subdivision 1    31.40
462.357, Subdivision 1(e) 151.08
462.357, Subdivision 7    151.12
471.705                   30.01
606.01                    10.98
609.415                   10.98
624.20                    94.01
1688.011, Subdivision 3   92.07
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code Section 2002 Code Section
1977 Code Section 2002 Code Section
201.01            30.01
201.02            30.02,
                  30.03
201.03            30.04
201.04            30.05,
                  30.06
201.05            30.07
201.08            30.08
201.09            30.08
202.01            31.20
202.02            31.21
202.03            31.22
202.04            31.23
202.05            31.24
203.01            31.01
203.02            31.02
203.03            31.03
203.04            31.04
203.05            31.03
203.06            31.03
203.07            31.05
203.08            31.06
203.09            31.06
203.10            31.06
203.11            31.06
203.12            31.07
204.01            31.40
204.02            31.41
204.03            31.42
204.04            31.43
204.05            31.43
303.01            93.35
303.07            93.37
303.08            93.36
303.09            93.38
303.10            93.38
303.11            93.39
303.13            93.40
401.01            50.01
501.01            110.01
501.02            110.02
501.03            110.03
501.04            110.04
505.01            94.01
505.02            94.02
505.03            94.02
507.01            112.15
507.02            112.16
507.03            112.16
507.04            112.17
509.01            112.01
509.02            112.02—
                  112.05
601.01            111.30,
                  111.31
601.02            111.32
601.04            111.32
601.06            111.34
601.07            111.34
601.08            111.35
601.09            111.36
601.10            111.37
602.01            111.15
602.02            111.16
602.03            111.17
602.04            111.18
602.05            111.19
603.01            111.50
603.02            111.51
603.03            111.52
603.04            111.52
603.05            111.53
603.06            111.54
603.07            111.54
603.08            111.55
603.09            111.56
603.10            111.57
603.11            111.58
603.12            111.59
701.01            70.01,
                  71.01
701.02            70.02
701.03            70.03
                  71.10,
701.07            71.03,
                  71.04,
                  71.09
701.08            71.05
701.09            71.06
701.10            71.07
701.11            70.04
701.12            71.08
701.13            70.05
701.14            70.06
802.01            130.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
—      11-11-82    71.07
2021-004 2-9-21      30.01
                    
 
   REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      151.01,
                      151.05,
                      151.16—
                      151.24,
—       4-24-78     151.37,
                      151.39,
                      151.58,
                      151.59,
                      151.64
                      150.01—
                      150.06,
                      150.20—
—       9-20-79     150.24,
                      150.35—
                      150.42,
                      150.55—
                      150.60
—       - -82       151.17
7         10-10-83    T.S.O. I
8         7-9-84      31.25
10        8-28-91     T.S.O. I
—       3-13-00     31.50—
                      31.55
—       4-10-00     T.S.O. I
—       5-8-00      T.S.O. I
30.08     10-14-02    30.08
95        2-9-04      10.98
                      95.01—
114       3-8-04      95.17,
                      95.99
71.10     5-14-07     71.10
31.08     1-14-08     31.08
1108-2010 11-8-10     151.18
31.52     3-14-11     31.52
10.14     5-9-11      10.14
2012-01   10-9-12     30.08
                      113.01—
113       6-9-14      113.18,
                      113.99
                      113.01—
113B      6-9-14      113.03,
                      113.17
151.53    1-12-15     151.53
31        3-14-16     31.50—
                      31.55
2017-001  3-13-17     30.01—
                      30.07
2018-001  2-12-18     31.40—
                      31.44
2018-002  12-10-18    30.01
—       6-12-23     10.98,
                      10.99
90        6-12-23     92.01—
                      92.12
—       12-11-23    70.08
                      91.01—
91        3-11-24     91.17,
                      91.99
—       —         30.01—
                      30.08
                      31.01—
                      31.08,
                      31.20—
                      31.25,
—       —         31.30—
                      31.36,
                      31.40—
                      31.44,
                      31.50—
                      31.57
                      151.01—
—       12- -24     151.27,
                      151.36—
                      151.65
                     
 
