CITY CODE
of
MENDOTA HEIGHTS, MINNESOTA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 599, passed February 4, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the city of Mendota Heights, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 599, passed February 4, 2025.
Ordinances of the city adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the city office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.e not been incorporated into the code and they
may not show the original ordinances in their entirety. Please contact the
office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning the ordinances
listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 381
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY OF MENDOTA HEIGHTS, MINNESOTA CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Mendota Heights as
follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota statutes section 415.021,
and from and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City Code of the
City of Mendota Heights, Minnesota prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
Adopted by the City Council of the City of Mendota Heights this Third day of
June, 2003.
   By:
   _______________________________    
   John J. Huber
   Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________
Kathleen M. Swanson
City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Mendota Heights. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the MENDOTA HEIGHTS CITY
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; ordinances
granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and
ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants;
salary ordinances; fee ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating
streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights, county of Dakota, state of Minnesota.
CODE: The city code of the city of Mendota Heights.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Mendota
Heights.
COUNTY: The county of Dakota, state of Minnesota.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Mendota Heights".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Mendota Heights".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Minnesota.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Violation; Penalties: Violation of a provision of this code is a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, a person may be punished by a fine of
not more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00), or such other amount set by law,
or imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or such other term
set by law, or both. Each act of violation and each day on which a violation
occurs or continues is a separate violation.
   B.   Definition Of Misdemeanor And Petty Misdemeanor: A "misdemeanor" is an
offense or crime that the city council is empowered to punish with fine or
imprisonment; a "petty misdemeanor" is as defined by law. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 412.231.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this city code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this city code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but
not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Terms Of Mayor And City Council
1-5-2: Salaries
1-5-3: Rules Governing Conduct And Procedure
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERMS OF MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL:
The members of the city council shall be elected for terms of four (4) years
during the city's regular biennial elections. Two (2) council members shall be
elected during one biennial election, and the two (2) remaining council members
shall be elected during the next biennial election, so that terms are
overlapping. The mayor is elected for a two (2) year term in each biennial
election. (2003 Code)
1-5-2: SALARIES:
Effective as of January 1, 2005, the salaries of the mayor and city council
members shall be as follows:
 
Mayor           $475.00 per month
Council members 350.00 per month
 
(Ord. 394, 7-20-2004)
1-5-3: RULES GOVERNING CONDUCT AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Meetings:
      1.   Day And Time: The city council shall have regular meetings on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month, and if such Tuesday shall fall on a
holiday, said regular meeting shall be on the next following Tuesday, unless
otherwise rescheduled by action of the city council. Adjourned and special
meetings shall be held at such other times as the council deems proper. The
regular city council meetings shall commence at such time as the city council
by resolution shall from time to time prescribe. (1981 Code 102 § 1; amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   Special Meetings:
         a.   Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any two (2)
members filing a written statement with the clerk at least three (3) days prior
to the time specified for such meeting. The clerk shall mail a notice at least
one day before the meeting to all members of the time and place of the meeting
and its purpose, if the purpose be stated in the call filed with him. The clerk
shall prepare and file in his office an affidavit by him showing mailing of
such notices in the manner herein prescribed.
         b.   Special meetings may be held without notice when all members are
present and take part in the meeting or consent in writing to hold such special
meeting without other notice. Such written consent shall be filed with the
clerk prior to the commencement of such meeting. Any special meeting attended
by all members shall be a regular meeting for the transaction of any business
that may come before it. (1981 Code 102 § 18)
      3.   Attendance:
         a.   All sessions of the council shall be public.
         b.   No person, other than members of the council shall be admitted
within the bar of the council, except city officers.
         c.   No person other than a member shall address the council except
with the consent of the members present or by a vote of the majority of the
members present.
         d.   The chief of police shall attend meetings of the council when
requested to do so by the mayor and shall preserve order in the room. (1981
Code 102 § 12)
   B.   Presiding Officer:
      1.   Officials Serve As Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all
meetings of the council. In the absence of the mayor, the acting mayor shall
preside. In the absence of both, the council members shall elect one of their
number a temporary chairman. The acting mayor shall have the same privileges as
other members. (1981 Code 102 § 2)
      2.   Duties: The mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide
questions of order subject to an appeal to the council. The mayor may make
motions, second motions, or speak on any question; provided, however, that in
order to do so, upon demand of any one council member, he shall vacate the
chair and designate a council member to preside temporarily. The mayor shall be
entitled to vote like other members of the council. (1981 Code 102 § 5)
   C.   Order Of Business: At the hour appointed for meeting, the members shall
be called to order by the mayor, and in his absence by the acting mayor, and in
the absence of both, the clerk. The clerk shall call the roll, note the
absentees and announce whether a quorum is present. In the absence of the
clerk, the mayor shall appoint a secretary pro tem. Upon the appearance of a
quorum, the council shall adopt an agenda for the meeting and shall proceed to
conduct business in the order established therein. (Ord. 205, 2-7-1984)
   D.   Consent Calendar: Procedures for the preparation and approval of the
consent calendar shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
city council. (1981 Code 102 § 20)
   E.   Quorum: At all meetings of the council, a majority of the council
members elected shall constitute a quorum to do business. (1981 Code 102 § 3;
amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Robert's Rules Of Order: In all points not covered by these rules, the
council shall be governed in its procedure by "Robert's Rules Of Order". (1981
Code 102 § 15)
   G.   Speaking:
      1.   Every member, previous to his speaking, shall address the chairman
and shall not proceed until he has been recognized by the chair. He shall
indulge in no personalities and shall confine his remarks to the matter under
debate.
      2.   No member shall speak more than twice on any question, nor more than
five (5) minutes each time without unanimous consent of the council.
      3.   A member called to order shall immediately suspend his remarks until
the point of order is decided by the chair. (1981 Code 102 § 6)
   H.   Maintaining Order: No person other than the mayor and other members of
the council shall address the council except with the consent of the mayor or
acting mayor or by a vote of a majority of the members present. When persons
abuse their right to be present by being noisy or unruly, the mayor, subject to
overrule by the council, may order their removal from the meeting. If the
presiding officer fails to act, the council may by motion issue such an order.
(1981 Code 102 § 13)
   I.   Voting:
      1.   When a question is put by the chair, every member present shall vote
unless for special reasons the council shall excuse him; but if the member has
an interest in the matter being voted on, he shall not vote. In doubtful cases,
the chair may direct or any member call for a division. The yeas and nays shall
be called upon a requisition of the chair or any member, in which case, the
names of the members voting are required to be recorded in the minutes.
      2.   All questions shall be put in the order in which they are moved,
except in case of privileged questions.
      3.   The previous shall be put in these words: "Shall the main questions
not be put?". It shall be admitted on demand of any two (2) members, and until
decided shall preclude all amendments and debate of the main question.
      4.   Votes of the members on any business coming before the council may
be by voice vote, standing vote, or in such other manner of voting as may
signify the intention of the members; provided, however, that upon request of
any one member of the council, such vote shall be taken by secret written
ballot.
      5.   Any affirmative or negative vote by a member shall be entered in the
minutes at his request. Aye and nay shall be taken upon any motion at the
request of any member and the results entered in the minutes. Every member
shall vote in such case unless the council by majority shall excuse a member
from voting. (1981 Code 102 § 8)
   J.   Ordinances, Resolutions, Motions And Petitions:
      1.   Motions:
         a.   Every motion, except to adjourn, postpone, reconsider, commit,
lay on the table, or for the previous question, shall be reduced to writing if
the chair or any member requires it; when made and seconded, it shall be stated
by the chairman, or being written shall be read by the clerk, and may be
withdrawn before decision or amendment or any disposition thereof has been
made, or a vote taken thereon.
         b.   When a question is under debate, no motion shall be entertained,
unless to adjourn, to lay on the table, to act on the previous question, to
postpone, to commit, or to amend, which several motions shall have precedence
in the order in which they are named, and the first three (3) shall be decided
without debate.
      2.   Resolutions: All resolutions shall be in writing. (1981 Code 102 §
7)
      3.   Passed Ordinances: After an ordinance shall have passed, a complete
and accurate copy, as amended, shall be made by the clerk and shall be signed
by the mayor, or in his absence by the acting mayor, and deposited with the
clerk, who shall attest (seal), number, file and record or place the same
permanently in the ordinance book. The affidavit of publication shall be
permanently inserted in the ordinance book after each ordinance. (1981 Code 102
§ 10)
      4.   Petitions: Petitions and other papers addressed to the council shall
be read by the clerk upon presentation of the same to the council. (1981 Code
102 § 11)
   K.   Minutes:
      1.   Minutes of the meeting shall be kept by the clerk. They shall be
signed by the clerk, and shall constitute an official record of the council
proceedings. Upon approval of the minutes at a subsequent meeting of the
council, the mayor shall sign the minutes. Lack of such mayor's signature or
council approval shall not invalidate such minutes as official records.
      2.   In the event the clerk shall fail or decline to amend or change the
minutes upon formal request, at the time they are submitted for approval, the
council may by motion carried by majority vote amend the minutes. Such amending
motion shall become a part of the minutes of the subsequent meeting. (1981 Code
102 § 19)
   L.   Committees:
      1.   Appointment: All committees shall be appointed by the mayor, unless
expressly ordered by the council, and the first person named on the committee
shall be chairman thereof. The number and nature of the committees will be
decided by vote of the council.
      2.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the committees to act promptly and
faithfully in all matters referred to them, and to make their reports at the
next meeting of the council. (1981 Code 102 § 9)
   M.   Adjournment: The council may at any time by a majority vote of those
present, adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour whether or not a
quorum is present. (1981 Code 102 § 17)
   N.   Objections On Procedural Matters: The foregoing rules are adopted to
facilitate the transaction of council business and functions. They should not
be permitted to defeat or hinder the plainly expressed intent and desire of the
council. Informal compliance and substantial performance shall be sufficient
under the foregoing rules in the absence of objection reasonably taken.
Objection is hereby declared not to have been reasonably taken as to procedural
matters provided for herein if a council member present at a meeting fails to
object during the meeting and requests compliance with these rules, and such
objection shall not be reasonably taken by an absent member later than the next
regular meeting after the proceedings to which objection is made. (1981 Code
102 § 16)
   O.   Suspension Of Rules: These rules, or any of them, may be temporarily
suspended by consent of a majority of all council members, and shall not be
repealed, altered, or amended, unless by concurrence of a majority of the whole
council, and upon notice given at some preceding meeting. (1981 Code 102 § 14)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Clerk And City Treasurer
1-6-2: Chief Of Police And Police Officers
1-6-3: Workers' Compensation Coverage
1-6-4: Criminal History Background Check Required For City Employment
1-6-1: CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Offices Established; Duties: The offices of city clerk and of city
treasurer are hereby established. The duties of each office shall be such as
are prescribed for those positions by the laws of the state. (1981 Code 106 §
2)
   B.   Bond Of Treasurer: The city treasurer, before entering upon the
discharge of his duties as treasurer shall execute and furnish an official bond
in such amount as set from time to time by the city council. Such bond shall be
executed in favor of the city and shall be approved and filed as to require the
faithful performance of the official duties of the treasurer and the proper
application of, and payment upon demand of, all monies officially received by
the city treasurer. Such bond shall be a corporate surety bond executed by a
corporation duly authorized by the state to contract as a surety or guarantor.
The premiums for such official bond shall be paid from the general fund of the
city. (1981 Code 106 § 3)
1-6-2: CHIEF OF POLICE AND POLICE OFFICERS:
The chief of police of the city and the police officers employed by the city
are hereby designated as process officers with all of the powers and duties as
heretofore granted and/or held by the city constables. (1981 Code 104 § 2)
1-6-3: WORKERS' COMPENSATION COVERAGE:
Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 176.011, subdivision 9, clause 6, the
elected officials of the city and those municipal officers appointed for a
regular term of office are hereby included in the coverage of the Minnesota
workers' compensation act 1 . (Ord. 261, 2-7-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 176.001 et seq.
1-6-4: CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECK REQUIRED FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT:
The purpose and intent of this section is to establish regulations that will
allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized criminal history data
for specified noncriminal purposes for employment background checks for the
positions described within.
   A.   Requirements:
      1.   The Mendota Heights police department (MHPD) is hereby required, as
the exclusive entity within the city, to conduct a criminal history background
investigation on applicants that are finalists for any city employment
opportunity, including voluntary, temporary or regular, full time or part time.
The city hiring authority does have the authority to conclude in certain
instances that a background investigation is not required; such instances shall
require documentation by and signature of the hiring authority.
      2.   As authorized by the Minnesota bureau of criminal apprehension
policy, any data accessed and acquired shall be maintained by MHPD under the
care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or the designee. A
summary of the results of the criminal background investigation will be
reported to the hiring authority, except in the case of applicants for the
Mendota Heights fire department, where the criminal history information in its
entirety may be provided to the hiring authority.
      3.   The city administrator or designee must obtain from the applicant a
completed and signed criminal history background check authorization and submit
the form to authorized MHPD personnel upon requesting the data. This
authorization form authorizes the MHPD by the applicant's written consent to
undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of Minnesota state statutes, chapter 13, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information. The authorized investigation will
include a search of both public and private records, as authorized under
Minnesota state statutes 299C.46 and 13.82. An applicant's failure to provide
consent may disqualify the applicant from the prospective position.
      4.   Applicants for positions involving the care, contact and/or
supervision of children may also be required to be fingerprinted and/or
complete an authorization for a child protection act background check. Pursuant
to a signed authorized consent form as determined by the city, the city
administrator or designee may obtain directly from the bureau of criminal
apprehension criminal history data on a person who has, may have, or seeks to
have access to a child, under Minnesota statutes section 299C.61, and who is
employed by, volunteers with, or seeks to be employed by or volunteer with the
city, or with a children's service provider with whom the person is or seeks to
be employed or volunteer. The children's service provider may be responsible to
the city for reimbursement of any costs incurred by the city in obtaining this
data.
      5.   The city will check the driving record of both applicants and
current employees who may either drive for the city on a routine basis, or who
will utilize a city owned car for any city related business.
   B.   Denial Of Application Or Denial Of Employment:
      1.   Except for positions set forth in Minnesota state statutes (MSS),
section 364.09, the city will not reject an applicant for employment on the
basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless:
         a.   The crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought, and
         b.   The conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence.
      2.   If the city rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         a.   The grounds and reasons for denial.
         b.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota state statutes section 364.06.
         c.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment.
         d.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication. (Ord. 437, 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 7
CONSOLIDATED IMPROVEMENT BOND DEBT SERVICE FUND
SECTION:
1-7-1: Fund Created; Purpose
1-7-2: Funds Of Prior Improvement Bond Issues
1-7-3: Separate Funds For Each Improvement
1-7-4: Tax Levies
1-7-5: Pledge Of Credit
1-7-6: Improvement Bonds
1-7-1: FUND CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a special fund of the city designated as the
consolidated improvement bond debt service fund to be kept and maintained by
the city treasurer separate and apart from other funds of the city and
administered in accordance with this chapter so long as any bonds directed by
the city council to be payable therefrom are outstanding. The consolidated
improvement bond debt service fund shall be used to pay principal and interest
on all general obligation improvement bonds heretofore issued to finance
improvements instituted under Minnesota statutes chapter 429, and such other
general obligation improvement bonds as the city council may hereafter by
resolution authorize to be payable therefrom which are issued to finance
improvements instituted under Minnesota statutes chapter 429, as the same may
from time to time be amended, or any successor law authorizing the issuance of
general obligation bonds payable primarily from special assessments, whether in
whole or in part, but not including temporary improvement bonds or bonds issued
pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075, or similar law providing for
the pledge of revenues from city facilities in addition to special assessments
and taxes. The consolidated improvement bond debt service fund shall be used
for no other purpose than to pay principal and interest on such bonds and to
repay advances from other funds used for such payments. Monies on deposit in
the Fund may be invested in accordance with Minnesota statutes section 118A.01
et seq., or amendatory or supplementary acts. Any balance remaining in the
consolidated improvement bond debt service fund after the principal and
interest on all bonds payable therefrom have been paid may be transferred to
the general fund. (1981 Code 110 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
1-7-2: FUNDS OF PRIOR IMPROVEMENT BOND ISSUES:
All monies and investments on deposit in the special funds heretofore
established for the payment of principal and interest on all outstanding
general obligation improvement bonds of the city issued prior to April 15,
1975, pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 429, and all future collections of
special assessments and taxes pledged and appropriated to such funds, are
hereby appropriated to and shall be deposited in the consolidated improvement
bond debt service fund. Such deposit shall be subject to the rights of the
holders of such bonds to have the monies and investments in the special funds
established for the respective issues and future collections of special
assessments and taxes heretofore pledged and appropriated to such funds applied
to the payment of principal and interest on the bonds payable from such funds
in accordance with the respective resolutions authorizing and providing
security for the payment of the same. (1981 Code 110 § 2)
1-7-3: SEPARATE FUNDS FOR EACH IMPROVEMENT:
A separate fund shall be provided for each improvement to be financed by bonds
payable from the consolidated improvement bond debt service fund, and the
proceeds from the sale of any such bonds and from collection of special
assessments and taxes levied for the improvement and any other monies
appropriated thereto by the council shall be paid into such fund, and shall be
used solely to defray expenses of the improvement and payment of principal and
interest on any obligations issued to finance the improvement until completion
and payment of all costs of the improvement. Thereupon, the improvement fund
shall be discontinued, and any balance of the proceeds of the bonds remaining
therein may be transferred by the council to the fund of any other improvement
instituted pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 429. All monies not so
transferred and all subsequent collections of special assessments and taxes
levied for the improvement shall be credited and paid into the consolidated
improvement bond debt service fund and are hereby pledged to the payment of
principal and interest on all bonds payable therefrom. If the council shall
have estimated that the proceeds of the bonds issued to finance an improvement
and any other amounts appropriated to the separate fund established for such
improvement will be sufficient to pay all costs of the improvement, special
assessments collected for such improvement shall be deposited when received
directly into the consolidated improvement bond debt service fund. (1981 Code
110 § 3)
1-7-4: TAX LEVIES:
The council shall, prior to delivery of any bonds payable from the consolidated
improvement bond debt service fund, estimate the amount of special assessments
to be levied for each improvement financed by such bonds and the amount, if
any, to be used with bond proceeds to defray expenses of the improvement and
pay principal and interest on the bonds prior to completion of the improvement.
After considering the rate of interest to be charged on deferred installments
of assessments and the expected times of collection thereof, the council shall
by resolution levy, if necessary, a direct general ad valorem tax upon all
taxable property in the city, to be spread upon the tax rolls for each year of
the term of the bonds in such amounts for all years that if collected in full,
they, together with estimated collections of all taxes heretofore levied and
appropriated to the consolidated improvement bond debt service fund, the
estimated collections of special assessment levied for each improvement
financed by such bonds (other than special assessments estimated to be required
to defray expenses of the improvement and pay principal and interest on the
bonds prior to completion of the improvement), and the estimated collections of
all other special assessments theretofore pledged to the consolidated
improvement bond debt service fund, will produce at least five percent (5%) in
excess of the amounts needed to meet, when due, the principal and interest
payments on such bonds and all other then outstanding bonds payable from the
consolidated improvement bond debt service fund. Such resolution shall
irrevocably appropriate the taxes so levied and the special assessments so
pledged to the consolidated improvement bond debt service fund. All such tax
levies shall be irrepealable; except, that if the council in any year makes an
irrevocable appropriation to the sinking fund of monies actually on hand or if
there is on hand any excess amount in the consolidated improvement bond debt
service fund, the council may cause the clerk to certify to the county auditor
the fact and amount thereof and request that the auditor reduce by the amount
so certified the amount otherwise to be included in the rolls next thereafter
prepared. (1981 Code 110 § 4)
1-7-5: PLEDGE OF CREDIT:
The full faith and credit of the city are hereby pledged for the prompt and
full payment of the principal and interest on all improvement bonds made
payable from the consolidated improvement bond debt service fund, and the city
council shall provide money for the payment of such principal and interest when
due and, if needed for such purpose, levy a direct ad valorem tax on all of the
taxable property in the city without limitation as to rate or amount. (1981
Code 110 § 5)
1-7-6: IMPROVEMENT BONDS:
Improvement bonds made payable from the consolidated improvement bond debt
service fund shall be sold in such manner and on such terms, shall be in such
form and contain such covenants, and shall be executed and delivered in such
manner as the city council may by resolution provide consistent with this
chapter and the laws of the state. (1981 Code 110 § 6)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Voter Registration
1-8-2: Absentee Ballot Board
1-8-1: VOTER REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration System Adopted: The system for the permanent registration
of voters provided for by Minnesota statutes chapter 201 is hereby adopted as
the system for the permanent registration of voters in the city. (1981 Code 103
§ 1)
   B.   Voters To Be Registered: No person shall be permitted to vote at any
election held in the city unless he shall have registered as provided in
Minnesota statutes chapter 201. (1981 Code 103 § 2)
1-8-2: ABSENTEE BALLOT BOARD:
   A.   Board Established: Pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota statutes, an
absentee ballot board is hereby established. Said absentee ballot board will
encompass the entire city for the purpose of receiving all absentee ballots for
any primary, general or special election held within the city. The absentee
ballot board shall be under the direct charge and supervision of the city
clerk, and the place for receiving and examining all returned absentee ballots
shall be the Mendota Heights city hall.
   B.   Composition: The absentee ballot board shall consist of an election
board designated by the city clerk.
   C.   Duties: The absentee ballot board shall:
      1.   Receive all absentee ballot return envelopes for each precinct in
the city.
      2.   Examine all returned ballot envelopes and accept or reject absentee
ballots as in the manner provided in Minnesota statutes chapter 203B.
      3.   Deliver the "accepted" absentee ballots to the appropriate precincts
for tabulation. (2003 Code)
   D.   Application Of State Election Laws: Except as hereinabove otherwise
provided, all of the laws applicable to absentee ballots and absentee voters as
well as any other applicable provisions of law as contained in the election
laws of the state shall apply to the ballots handled by the absentee ballot
board. (1981 Code 112 § 5; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definition And Interpretation
1-9-2: Disposition Of Property
1-9-3: Reclamation Of Property
1-9-4: Proceeds Of Sales; Unsold Property
1-9-5: Summary Disposition Of Property
1-9-1: DEFINITION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   "Unclaimed personal property", as used hereunder, includes any personal
property stolen and recovered, abandoned, confiscated, or otherwise lawfully
acquired by the city including, but not limited to, bicycles, automobiles, or
parts thereof.
   B.   The date on which personal property comes into the possession of the
city shall be the date upon which the city or any department of the city
acquires actual physical possession or exercises dominion and control over such
personal property. (1981 Code 912 § 5)
1-9-2: DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
Any unclaimed personal property coming into the possession of the city may be
disposed of by the city as follows:
   A.   Sale At Public Auction: Upon being held by the city and unclaimed by
the owner thereof for a period of six (6) months, such property shall be sold
by the city at a public auction to the highest bidder. Notice of such sale
shall be published in the designated legal newspaper of the city at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of such sale, and shall contain a general
description of the property to be sold as well as the time and place of sale.
(1981 Code 912 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Use By City: In lieu of a public auction sale, any of such unclaimed
personal property may be appropriated to the use of the city upon approval of
such appropriation by the city council. (1981 Code 912 § 1)
1-9-3: RECLAMATION OF PROPERTY:
The true owner of any such unclaimed personal property held for sale or
disposal by the city may reclaim his property upon satisfactory proof of
ownership thereof prior to the sale or other disposition hereunder. If such
unclaimed personal property has been sold or otherwise disposed of under the
provisions of this chapter, the true owner, upon application to the city clerk
within six (6) months of such sale or disposition and upon satisfactory proof
of ownership, shall be entitled to receive the actual sale price of such
property; except, that there shall be deducted from said sale price any
expenses incurred by the city in connection with the retention, storage, and
sale of such property. (1981 Code 912 § 2)
1-9-4: PROCEEDS OF SALES; UNSOLD PROPERTY:
The proceeds of public auction sale shall be applied in payment of the expenses
of the sale and all other costs incurred in retaining and storing such
property. The balance of the proceeds remaining from such sale shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. Any property offered for sale but not sold
and not suitable for appropriation to the use of the city shall be deemed to be
of no value and shall be disposed of in such manner as the city council
directs. (1981 Code 912 § 3)
1-9-5: SUMMARY DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY:
The city council may, without notice, and in such manner as it determines to be
in the public interest, provide for the disposition immediately of any property
coming into the city's possession which the council determines to be dangerous
or perishable. A record of all pertinent facts of the receipt and disposal of
such property shall be prepared and filed in the office of the city clerk.
(1981 Code 912 § 4)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established
2-1-2: Composition; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Officers
2-1-4: Vacancies In Office
2-1-5: Meetings; Procedures; Records
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7: Compensation
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The planning commission for the city is hereby established. (1981 Code 108 § 1)
2-1-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) residents of the city,
appointed by the mayor with the consent of the majority of the members of the
city council. The members shall serve terms of three (3) years. The terms shall
be staggered so that terms of two (2) members shall expire each year. No member
shall be appointed to more than three (3) consecutive full terms. A member
appointed to fill an unexpired term on the commission may be appointed to serve
three (3) consecutive terms after completing the unexpired term, but in no case
shall the individual serve more than eleven (11) consecutive years. The term
limits imposed in this section apply to service on the planning commission and
shall not be deemed to restrict an individual from being appointed to a
different city commission after completing three (3) or fewer consecutive terms
on the planning commission. Council may, in its discretion, appoint an
individual who has already completed three (3) terms on the commission, but in
no case shall the appointment be effective until twelve (12) months after that
individual has completed his/her third term. (Ord. 428, 3-16-2010)
2-1-3: OFFICERS:
At the organizational meeting of the planning commission held in February of
each year, the planning commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice
chairperson from among its members. The terms of such officers shall be for a
period of one year. (1981 Code 108 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
2-1-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Causes Of Vacancy: Any of the following may cause the office of a
member to become vacated:
      1.   Death;
      2.   Disability or failure to serve, as shown by failure to attend four
(4) regularly scheduled meetings in any one calendar year;
      3.   Removal of residence from the city;
      4.   Resignation in writing; or (1981 Code 108 § 6)
      5.   Behavior deemed inappropriate by the city council. (Ord. 428, 3-16-
2010)
   B.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for
the unexpired portion of the term by the mayor with the consent of the majority
of the members of the city council. (1981 Code 108 § 6)
2-1-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURES; RECORDS:
The commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at a time regularly
established and approved by the city council and shall hold such special
meetings as may be necessary for the conduct of its business. The commission
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be maintained as
a public record. The commission shall submit to the city council a true and
correct copy of all of its minutes, recommendations and other reports. (1981
Code 108 § 4)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall make studies, investigations and recommendations
to the council regarding matters affecting general matters of planning
including zoning, transportation, platting, and public improvements and such
other related matters as may be assigned to it by the city council. The
planning commission shall, if requested by the city council, adopt a
comprehensive municipal plan for future developments and land use, and may,
with consent of the council, prepare a capital improvements program for the
purpose of determining priorities and apportioning the costs of scheduled
public improvements. The commission shall, in performing the aforementioned
responsibilities, exhibit the initiative in formulating plans which will be
responsive to the anticipated needs and objectives of the city. (1981 Code 108
§ 3)
2-1-7: COMPENSATION:
The members of the planning commission shall be paid a stipend for each meeting
they attend. The stipend amount is set by the city council. (Ord. 428, 3-16-
2010)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Composition; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-2-3: Officers
2-2-4: Vacancies In Office
2-2-5: Meetings; Procedures; Records
2-2-6: Powers And Duties
2-2-7: Compensation
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The parks and recreation commission for the city is hereby established. (1981
Code 109 § 1)
2-2-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The parks and recreation commission shall consist of seven (7) residents of the
city, appointed by the mayor with the consent of the majority of the members of
the city council. The members shall serve terms of three (3) years. The terms
shall be staggered so that terms of two (2) members shall expire each year. No
member shall be appointed to more than three (3) consecutive full terms. A
member appointed to fill an unexpired term on the commission may be appointed
to serve three (3) consecutive terms after completing the unexpired term, but
in no case shall the individual serve more than eleven (11) consecutive years.
The term limits imposed in this section apply to service on the parks and
recreation commission and shall not be deemed to restrict an individual from
being appointed to a different city commission after completing three (3) or
fewer consecutive terms on the parks and recreation commission. Council may, in
its discretion, appoint an individual who has already completed three (3) terms
on the commission, but in no case shall the appointment be effective until
twelve (12) months after that individual has completed his/her third term.
(Ord. 428, 3-16-2010)
2-2-3: OFFICERS:
The February meeting shall be an organizational meeting at which the commission
shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson from among its members. The
terms of such officers shall be for a period of one year. (1981 Code 109 § 2;
amd. 2003 Code)
2-2-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Causes For Vacancy: Any of the following may cause the office of a
member to become vacated:
      1.   Death;
      2.   Disability or failure to serve, as shown by failure to attend four
(4) regularly scheduled meetings in any one calendar year;
      3.   Removal of residence from the city;
      4.   Resignation in writing; or (1981 Code 109 § 6)
      5.   Behavior deemed inappropriate by the city council. (Ord. 428, 3-16-
2010)
   B.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for
the unexpired portion of the term by the mayor with the consent of the majority
of the members of the city council. (1981 Code 109 § 6)
2-2-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURES; RECORDS:
The commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at a time regularly
established and approved by the city council and shall hold such special
meetings as may be necessary for the conduct of its business. The commission
may waive a meeting for a stated sufficient cause with prior consent of the
city council based upon a request from the chairman and the city staff. The
commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions and findings, which record shall be
maintained as a public record. The commission shall submit to the city council
a true and correct copy of all of its minutes, recommendations and other
reports. (Ord. 313, 2-18-1997)
2-2-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The parks and recreation commission shall:
   A.   Advise the city council on matters pertaining to parks and recreational
development programs and shall cooperate with city personnel in implementing
the parks and recreation programs.
   B.   Advise the city council on the establishment of written rules and
regulations for the use, management and operation of the public parks and
recreational facilities, the same to be approved by action of the council
before being put into effect.
   C.   If requested by the city council, prepare plans for the acquisition,
development and improvement of the city public parks and recreational
facilities and shall, if requested by the city council, develop a comprehensive
plan for future park development and open space.
   D.   If requested by the city council, prepare a capital improvements
program for the purpose of determining priorities and apportioning costs of
scheduled improvements.
   E.   In performing the aforementioned duties and responsibilities, exhibit
the initiative in formulating policies which will be responsive to the
anticipated need and objectives of the community. (1981 Code 109 § 3)
2-2-7: COMPENSATION:
The members of the parks and recreation commission shall be paid a stipend for
each meeting they attend. The stipend amount is set by the city council. (Ord.
428, 3-16-2010)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Policy And Purpose
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Establishment Of Organization; Director
2-3-4: Powers And Duties Of Director
2-3-5: Local Emergencies
2-3-6: Emergency Regulations
2-3-7: Emergency Management A Government Function
2-3-8: Participation In Labor Disputes Or Politics
2-3-9: Fiscal Matters
2-3-10: Violation; Misdemeanor
2-3-1: POLICY AND PURPOSE:
Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure, and in
order to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with
such disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect
the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of
the people of the city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   A.   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters.
   B.   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   C.   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and other
political subdivisions of the state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency preparedness functions.
   D.   To comply with provisions of Minnesota statutes section 12.25, which
requires that each political subdivision of Minnesota shall establish a local
organization for emergency management. (2003 Code)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
DISASTER: A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to the
health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for immediate
action to prevent disaster emergencies from developing or occurring.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of nature, or from
sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material mishaps. These
functions include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services,
emergency medical services, engineering warning services, communications,
radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care, emergency
transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civil protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
for carrying out of the foregoing functions. "Emergency management" includes
those activities sometimes referred to as "civil defense" functions.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES: The total personnel resources engaged in city
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION: The staff responsible for coordinating city
level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements. (2003 Code)
2-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ORGANIZATION; DIRECTOR:
There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the city
emergency management director, hereinafter called the director. The director
shall be appointed by the city council for an indefinite term and may be
removed at any time. The director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency management
organization, subject to the direction and control of the city council. (2003
Code)
2-3-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
   A.   Develop Mutual Aid Agreements: The director, with the consent of the
mayor, shall represent the city at any regional or state conference for
emergency management. The director shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements
with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal emergency
management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt with
unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the council for its action.
These arrangements shall be consistent with the state emergency plan.
   B.   Availability Of Resources: The director shall make studies and surveys
of the human resources, industries, and facilities of the city as deemed
necessary to determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for
their most efficient use in times of emergency or disaster. The director shall
establish the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs,
boards and sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and
directions, subject to approval of the mayor.
   C.   Preparation Of plan: The director shall prepare a comprehensive
emergency plan for the emergency preparedness of the city and shall present
such plan to the council for its approval. When the council has approved the
plan, it shall be the duty of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness
forces of the city to perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as
approved. The plan may be modified in like manner from time to time. The
director shall coordinate the emergency management activities of the city to
the end that they shall be consistently and fully integrated with the emergency
plan of the federal government and the state and correlated with emergency
plans of the county and other political subdivisions.
   D.   Training And Information Programs: In accordance with the state and
city emergency plan, the director shall institute training programs, public
information programs and conduct practice warning alerts and emergency
exercises as may be necessary to assure prompt and effective operation of the
city emergency plan when a disaster occurs.
   E.   Utilize City Personnel And Equipment: The director shall utilize
personnel, services, equipment, supplies and facilities of the existing
departments and agencies of the city to the maximum extent practicable. The
officers and personnel of all city departments and agencies shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and extend such services and
facilities to the city emergency organization and to the governor upon request.
The head of each department or agency in cooperation with the director shall be
responsible for the planning and programming of such emergency activities as
will involve the utilization of the facilities of the department or agency.
   F.   Training: The director shall, in cooperation with those city
departments and agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and
training of emergency management personnel, which may be required on a
volunteer basis, to carry out emergency plans for the city and state. To the
extent that emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city
department or agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments
or agencies and shall be under the administration and control of such
department or agency.
   G.   Assure Capabilities: Consistent with the state emergency service law,
the director shall coordinate the activity of city emergency management
organizations within the city and assist in establishing and conducting
training programs as required to assure emergency operational capability in the
several services provided by Minnesota statutes section 12.25.
   H.   Compliance With State Regulations: The director shall carry out all
orders, rules and regulations issued by the governor with reference to
emergency management.
   I.   Submission Of Reports: The director shall prepare and submit reports on
emergency preparedness when requested by the mayor. (2003 Code)
2-3-5: LOCAL EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Declaration: A local emergency may be declared only by the mayor or
his/her legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of
three (3) days except by or with the consent of the council. Any order, or
proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk.
   B.   Use Of Disaster Plans: A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke
necessary portions of the response and recovery aspect of applicable local or
interjurisdictional disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance
thereunder.
   C.   Jurisdiction: No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local
emergency unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency
functions. However, an interjurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid
and services in accordance with the agreement under which it functions. (2003
Code)
2-3-6: EMERGENCY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Council Authority: Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or
to prepare for such an emergency for which adequate regulations have not been
adopted by the governor or the council, the council may by resolution
promulgate regulations, consistent with applicable federal or state law or
regulation, respecting the conduct of persons and the use of property during
emergencies, the repair, maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public
services, emergency health, fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice
periods required for preliminary training, and all other matters which are
required to protect public safety, health, and welfare in a declared emergency.
   B.   Resolution Of Emergency Regulations: Every resolution of emergency
regulations shall be in writing; shall be dated; shall refer to the particular
emergency to which it pertains, if so limited; and shall be filed in the office
of the city clerk. A copy shall be kept posted and available for public
inspection during business hours. Notice of the existence of these regulations
and their availability for inspection at the city clerk's office shall be
conspicuously posted at the front of the city hall or other headquarters of the
city or at such other places in the affected area as the council shall
designate in the resolution. By resolution, the council may modify or rescind
any such regulation.
   C.   Time Limitation: The council may rescind any such regulation by
resolution at any time. If not sooner rescinded, every such regulation shall
expire at the end of thirty (30) days after its effective date or at the end of
the emergency to which it relates, whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule,
or regulation inconsistent with an emergency regulation promulgated by the
council shall be suspended during the time period and to the extent such
conflict exists.
   D.   Contracts And Obligations: During a declared emergency, the city is,
under the provision of Minnesota statutes section 12.31 and notwithstanding any
statutory provision to the contrary, empowered, through its council, acting
within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into contracts and
incur obligations necessary to combat such disaster by protecting the health
and safety of persons and property and providing emergency assistance to the
victims of such disaster. The city may exercise these powers in the light of
the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time consuming
procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of
public works, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and
materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions,
publication of call for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules,
provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bid. (2003 Code)
2-3-7: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION:
All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he/she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter, or under the workers' compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any such person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of congress. (2003 Code)
2-3-8: PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS:
The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute. (2003 Code)
2-3-9: FISCAL MATTERS:
There is hereby established an account in the general fund to be known as the
emergency management account. Into this account shall be placed the proceeds of
taxes levied for emergencies, money transferred from other funds, gifts and
other revenues of the emergency management organization. From it shall be made
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of the emergency management
organization. (2003 Code)
2-3-10: VIOLATION; MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation adopted
thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official acts of
city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
AIRPORT RELATIONS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Established
2-4-2: Composition; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-4-3: Officers
2-4-4: Vacancies In Office
2-4-5: Meetings; Procedures; Records
2-4-6: Powers And Duties
2-4-7: Compensation
2-4-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The airport relations commission for the city is hereby established. (Ord. 290,
4-20-1993)
2-4-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The airport relations commission shall consist of seven (7) residents of the
city, appointed by the mayor with the consent of the majority of the members of
the city council. The members shall serve terms of three (3) years. The terms
shall be staggered so that terms of at least two (2) members shall expire each
year. Terms of members shall commence on February 1 and shall terminate on
January 31 of the year of termination. A member whose term of office has
expired shall serve until a successor has been appointed. (Ord. 415, 2-19-2008)
2-4-3: OFFICERS:
At the organizational meeting of the airport relations commission held in
February of each year, the airport relations commission shall elect a
chairperson and a vice chairperson from among its members. The terms of such
officers shall be for a period of one year. (Ord. 290, 4-20-1993)
2-4-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Cause Of Vacancy: Any of the following may cause the office of a member
to become vacated:
      1.   Death.
      2.   Disability or failure to serve, as shown by failure to attend four
(4) regularly scheduled meetings in any one calendar year.
      3.   Relocation of residence from the city.
      4.   Resignation in writing. (Ord. 290, 4-20-1993)
      5.   Behavior deemed inappropriate by the city council. (Ord. 428, 3-16-
2010)
   B.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for
the unexpired portion of the term by the mayor with the consent of the majority
of the members of the city council. (Ord. 290, 4-20-1993)
2-4-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURES; RECORDS:
The airport relations commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at
a time regularly established and approved by the city council and shall hold
such special meetings as may be necessary for the conduct of its business. The
commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its proceedings, which record shall be maintained as a public record.
The commission shall transmit to the city council a true and correct copy of
all of its minutes, recommendations and other reports. (Ord. 290, 4-20-1993)
2-4-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The airport relations commission shall advise the city council on
matters pertaining to airport noise and operations at Minneapolis - St. Paul
International Airport.
   B.   The airport relations commission is expected to monitor proposed rules,
procedures and programs which impact the air noise situation within the city
and to make recommendations to the city council regarding strategies to
mitigate the city's air noise exposure.
   C.   The airport relations commission shall have such other duties and
powers as granted by the city council from time to time. (Ord. 290, 4-20-1993)
2-4-7: COMPENSATION:
The members of the airport relations commission shall be paid a stipend for
each meeting they attend. The stipend amount is set by the city council. (Ord.
428, 3-16-2010)
CHAPTER 5
NATURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Established
2-5-2: Composition; Appointment; Terms Of Office
2-5-3: Officers
2-5-4: Vacancies In Office
2-5-5: Meetings; Procedures; Records
2-5-6: Powers And Duties
2-5-7: Compensation
2-5-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
The Natural Resources Commission for the city is hereby established. (Ord. 572,
2-2-2022)
2-5-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The Natural Resources Commission shall consist of seven (7) residents of the
city, appointed by the mayor with the consent of the majority of the members of
the city council. The members shall serve terms of three (3) years. The terms
shall be staggered so that terms of two (2) members shall expire each year. No
member shall be appointed to more than three (3) consecutive full terms. A
member appointed to fill an unexpired term on the commission may be appointed
to serve three (3) consecutive terms after completing the unexpired term, but
in no case shall the individual serve more than eleven (11) consecutive years.
The term limits imposed in this section apply to service on the Natural
Resources Commission and shall not be deemed to restrict an individual from
being appointed to a different city commission after completing three (3) or
fewer consecutive terms on the Natural Resources Commission. Council may, in
its discretion, appoint an individual who has already completed three (3) terms
on the commission, but in no case shall the appointment be effective until
twelve (12) months after that individual has completed his/her third term.
(Ord. 572, 2-2-2022)
2-5-3: OFFICERS:
The first meeting of each year shall be an organizational meeting at which the
commission shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson from among its
members. The terms of such officers shall be for a period of one year. (Ord.
572, 2-2-2022)
2-5-4: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Causes For Vacancy: Any of the following may cause the office of a
member to become vacated:
      1.   Death;
      2.   Disability or failure to serve, as shown by failure to attend four
(4) regularly scheduled meetings in any one calendar year;
      3.   Removal of residence from the city;
      4.   Resignation in writing; or
      5.   Behavior deemed inappropriate by the city council.
   B.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for
the unexpired portion of the term by the mayor with the consent of the majority
of the members of the city council. (Ord. 572, 2-2-2022)
2-5-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURES; RECORDS:
The commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at a time regularly
established and approved by the city council and may add additional special
meetings if necessary to conduct its business. The commission shall adopt rules
for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions and findings, which record shall be maintained as a public record.
The commission shall submit to the city council a true and correct copy of all
of its minutes, recommendations and other reports. (Ord. 572, 2-2-2022)
2-5-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Natural Resources Commission shall:
   A.   Advise the city council on matters pertaining to Natural Resources,
sustainability, environmental and climate stewardship, and opportunities for
the advancement of those areas including recommending policies and initiatives
that enhance and preserve natural resources within Mendota Heights.
   B.   If requested by the City Council, will prepare and assess plans,
policies, goals, and ordinances for the acquisition, enhancement, or
preservation of natural resources in the City of Mendota Heights. (Ord. 572, 2-
2-2022)
2-5-7: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Natural Resources Commission shall be paid a stipend for
each meeting they attend. The stipend amount is set by the city council. (Ord.
572, 2-2-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: State Law Adopted
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: Responsibility Of Licensee; Employees
3-1-5: License Required
3-1-6: Types Of Licenses; Eligibility; Exemptions
3-1-7: Number Of Licenses
3-1-8: Applications For Licenses
3-1-9: Financial Responsibility; Liability Insurance
3-1-10: Fees; Term
3-1-11: Granting Of Licenses
3-1-12: Places Ineligible For License
3-1-13: Conditions Of License
3-1-14: Transfer Of License
3-1-15: Hours And Days Of Operation
3-1-16: Gambling Prohibited
3-1-17: Minors
3-1-18: Sales To, Consumption By Certain Persons
3-1-19: Alteration Of Premises
3-1-20: Sanctions For License Violations
3-1-21: Violation; Penalties
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
Pursuant to the authority granted it by the Minnesota Liquor Act, Minnesota
Statutes chapter 340A, and the Twenty First Amendment to the United States
Constitution, the City Council prescribes the licensing procedures and
regulations governing the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages. (Ord.
511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED 1 :
Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A is adopted by reference as set out at length in
this chapter. If the other provisions in this chapter are more stringent than
the provisions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A, the provisions of this
chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Adoption by reference, MSA § 471.62.
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS 1 :
All words, terms and phrases used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Minnesota Statutes section 340A.101 et seq., except where
context clearly indicates a different meaning. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-
2017)
 
Notes
1 2. Definitions, MSA § 340A.101.
3-1-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE; EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Every licensee under this chapter is responsible for the conduct in the
licensed establishment and any sale of alcoholic beverage by an employee
authorized to sell alcoholic beverages in the establishment is the act of the
licensee.
   B.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age may be employed in a place
where intoxicating liquor is sold for consumption on the premises, except
persons under seventeen (17) years of age may be employed as musicians or in
bussing or washing dishes in a restaurant or hotel that is licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor and may be employed as waiters and waitresses at a
restaurant, hotel, or motel where only wine is sold, provided that the person
under eighteen (18) years of age may not sell or serve any wine.
   C.   Within six (6) months of the initial hire date, and biennially
thereafter, every person selling or serving liquor in an establishment that has
a license shall receive training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to
customers. Upon request, proof of training shall be provided by the licensee.
The failure of a licensee to meet this condition shall result in suspension of
the license until the condition is met. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-5: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
   A.   No person may directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by any device,
sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of alcoholic beverages as
part of a commercial transaction without having obtained a license issued by
the City Council.
   B.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed or possessed in an
open container on a street or public highway, in an automobile, or in a parking
lot of an establishment currently holding a liquor license. The licensee shall
post and maintain a conspicuous place within the licensed premises at the exits
clearly visible to customers: one (1) sign fourteen and one-half inches (141/
2") wide by eight inches (8") high, which states no alcoholic beverages are
allowed beyond this point.
   C.   Any person licensed to sell intoxicating liquor at on-sale may sell 3.2
percent malt beverages at on-sale without further license.
   D.   The holder of an on-sale wine license who is also licensed to sell 3.2
percent malt liquors at on-sale and who carries liquor liability insurance in
the limits set forth in Minnesota Statutes section 340A.409, shall have the
right to sell intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an additional
license. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
 
Notes
  1. Requirement for State license, MSA § 340A.401; authority for City to issue
1 local license for certain sales of malt liquor, MSA § 340A.403; authority for
  City to issue license for certain sales of intoxicating liquor and wine, MSA §
  340A.404.
3-1-6: TYPES OF LICENSES; ELIGIBILITY; EXEMPTIONS 1 :
   A.   Intoxicating Liquor Licenses:
      1.   Retail, On-Sale:
         a.   An on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be issued to hotels;
restaurants; bowling centers; and clubs or congressionally chartered veterans'
organizations, provided that the organization has been in existence for at
least three (3) years and liquor sales will only be to members and bona fide
guests.
         b.   An on-sale intoxicating liquor license, an on-sale wine license
or an on-sale malt liquor license may be issued to a theatre or golf course
within the City, notwithstanding any law. The license issued under this
paragraph authorizes sales on all days of the week.
      2.   Retail, Off-Sale: An off-sale intoxicating liquor license may be
issued to an exclusive liquor store.
      3.   Retail, On-Sale, Wine:
         a.   On-sale wine licenses shall be issued only to restaurants having
facilities for seating at least twenty five (25) guests at one time. A wine
license permits the retail sale of wine up to twenty four percent (24%) alcohol
by volume for consumption. A wine license authorizes the sale of wine on all
days of the week.
         b.   A holder of an on-sale wine license issued pursuant to this
chapter who is also licensed to sell 3.2 percent malt liquors at on-sale shall
be permitted to sell intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an additional
license.
      4.   Culinary Class Limited On-Sale License: A limited on-sale
intoxicating liquor license may be issued to a business establishment: a) not
otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license; and b) that, as
part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which payment is
made by each participant or advance reservation required. The license
authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class, at no
additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six (6) ounces of wine
or twelve (12) ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the
class, for consumption on the licensed premises only.
      5.   Retail, On-Sale, Sunday Sales: On-sale licenses permit the sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the licensed premises only. Special
licenses for Sunday liquor sales shall be issued only to establishments to
which on-sale licenses have been issued or hereafter may be issued for the sale
of intoxicating liquors in conjunction with the serving of food.
      6.   Temporary, On-Sale: On-sale temporary licenses shall be granted only
to clubs or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organizations in
existence for at least three (3) years for the sale of intoxicating liquor on
the premises only on the days specified in the license. No organization may be
granted more than two (2) temporary licenses in any calendar year. No license
shall be issued for more than four (4) consecutive days.
   B.   3.2 Percent Malt Liquor Licenses:
      1.   Retail, On-Sale: On sale licenses shall be granted only to bona fide
clubs, restaurants and hotels where food is prepared and served for consumption
only on the premises. On sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2 percent
malt liquor for consumption on the premises only.
      2.   Retail, Off-Sale: Off sale licenses shall permit the sale of 3.2
percent malt liquor at retail in the original package for consumption off the
licensed premises only.
      3.   Temporary Special Events: Temporary licenses may be granted for
special events held by a religious, charitable, or nonprofit organization that
has been in existence for at least three (3) years for the sale of 3.2 percent
malt liquor on the premises only on the days specified in the license. No
organization shall be granted more than two (2) temporary licenses in any
calendar year. No license shall be issued for more than four (4) consecutive
days.
   C.   Right Of Refusal: The City Council, in its discretion, shall have the
right to refuse to issue or renew a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages
on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the
City are delinquent and unpaid. Delinquent and unpaid taxes, assessments, or
other financial claims of the City on the premises for which the license has
been issued shall be grounds for the revocation of an alcoholic beverage
license.
   D.   Eligibility: No retail license may be issued to:
      1.   A person under twenty one (21) years of age;
      2.   A person who has had an intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor license revoked within five (5) years of the license application, or to
any person who at the time of the violation owns any interest, whether as a
holder of more than five percent (5%) of the capital stock of a corporation
licensee, as a partner or otherwise, in the premises or in the business
conducted thereon, or to a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise,
business, or firm in which any such person is in any manner interested;
      3.   A person not of good moral character and repute; or
      4.   A person who has been convicted, within five (5) years prior to the
application for such license, of a felony or of any willful violation of a
Federal, State, or local law governing the manufacture, sale, distribution, or
possession for sale or distribution of 3.2 percent malt liquor, intoxicating
liquor, or wine. The City may deny issuance of a license if it appears that the
applicant has had a conviction of any crime that is directly related to the
type of license being sought, as defined by Minnesota Statutes section 364.03,
subdivision 2, and if the person has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and responsibilities
of the licensed occupation, as defined by Minnesota Statutes section 364.03,
subdivision 3.
      5.   A person who has a direct or indirect interest in a manufacturer,
brewer, or wholesaler of alcohol.
      6.   A person who has an interest, either directly or indirectly, in two
(2) establishments in the City to which on-sale licenses have been issued under
this chapter. No person shall own an "interest", as defined in Minnesota
Statutes section 340A.101 in more than two (2) establishments or businesses for
which on-sale licenses have been granted under this chapter.
      7.   A person who is the spouse of a person ineligible for a license
pursuant to the provisions of subsections D1 through D6 of this section.
      8.   A person who is not the real party in interest or a beneficial owner
of the business operated, or to be operated, under the license.
This section applies to a general partner or general manager if the applicant
is a partnership, and corporate officer or general manager if the application
is a corporation.
   E.   Exemptions: Holders of on sale intoxicating liquor licenses are exempt
from the requirement that an on sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license be
obtained, and off sale intoxicating liquor licensees are exempted from the
requirement that an off sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license be obtained before
selling 3.2 percent malt liquor. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Similar provisions, MSA § 340A.402; authority for City regulation of wine
  sale, MSA § 340A.404, subd. 5.
3-1-7: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
Not more than the following number of licenses shall be in existence at any one
time:
 
Off sale intoxicating licenses 6
 
(Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-8: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
   A.   Applications for a liquor license shall be required upon initial
application, upon license renewal and upon any change of ownership or business
control of a licensed premises. It shall be unlawful to make any false
statements in an application. Every application for a license to sell alcoholic
beverages shall be verified and filed with the City Clerk.
   B.   A liquor license may be issued only for a space that is compact and
contiguous. The building and any permanently constructed and physically
attached deck or patio is recognized as a part of the compact and contiguous
licensed premises. The area must be included as part of the licensed premises
on the applicant's liquor license application in the section that describes the
licensed premises and must be covered by liquor liability insurance. The area
must be clearly designated and access to the area controlled. Storage of
alcoholic beverages is not allowed on the attached deck or patio.
   C.   Every application for the issuance or renewal of a license for the sale
of alcoholic beverages must include a copy of each notice received by the
applicant under Minnesota Statutes section 340A.802 during the preceding year.
   D.   Applications for the renewal of an existing license shall be made at
least sixty (60) days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and
shall be made in such abbreviated form as the City Clerk may approve. Proposed
enlargement, alteration or extension of premises previously licensed shall be
reported to the City Clerk at or before the time application is made. If, in
the judgment of the City Clerk, good and sufficient cause is shown by the
applicant for failure to file for a renewal within the time provided, the City
Council may, if the other provisions of this chapter are complied with, grant
the application. Changes in the corporate articles or partnership agreement, as
the case may be, shall be submitted to the City Clerk within thirty (30) days
after such changes are made. In the case of a corporation, the licensee shall
notify the City Clerk when a person not listed in the application acquires an
interest in the corporation and shall give all information about the person as
is required in an initial application.
   E.   Every application for the renewal of a license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages must include proof that all employees authorized to serve
or sell alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises have completed an alcohol
awareness program approved by the Chief of Police.
   F.   No licensee under this chapter shall enter into an agreement allowing
another person to manage the licensed premises unless said management agreement
is in writing and is conditional upon approval by the City Clerk. The licensee
shall provide the City Clerk with a copy of the proposed management agreement
and such fee as established by ordinance at least ten (10) days before the
agreement is to take effect. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-9: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; LIABILITY INSURANCE 1 :
   A.   No retail liquor license may be issued, maintained, or renewed unless
the applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility with regard to
liability imposed by Minnesota Statutes section 340A.801. The minimum
requirement for proof of financial responsibility may be given by:
      1.   A certificate that there is in effect for the license period an
insurance policy issued by an insurer required to be licensed under Minnesota
Statutes section 60A.07, subd. 4, or by an insurer recognized as an eligible
surplus lines carrier pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 60A.206 or pool
providing at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) of coverage because of
bodily injury to any one (1) person in any one (1) occurrence, one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) because of bodily injury to two (2) or more
persons in any one (1) occurrence, ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one (1) occurrence, fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for loss of means of support of any one (1)
person in any one (1) occurrence, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
for loss of means of support of two (2) or more persons in any one (1)
occurrence, fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for other pecuniary loss of any
one (1) person in any one (1) occurrence, and one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for other pecuniary loss of two (2) or more persons in any one
(1) occurrence;
      2.   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverage as provided in
subsection A1 of this section; or
      3.   A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has deposited
with the State Treasurer one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in cash or
securities which may be legally purchased by savings banks or for trust funds
having a market value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
This subsection does not prohibit an insurer from providing the coverage
required by this subsection in combination with other insurance coverage.
An annual aggregate policy limit for dram shop insurance of not less than three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) may be included in the policy
provisions.
A liability insurance policy required by this section must provide that it may
not be canceled for: 1) any cause, except for nonpayment of premium, by either
the insured or the insurer unless the canceling party has first given thirty
(30) days' notice in writing to the City Clerk of intent to cancel the policy;
and 2) nonpayment of premium unless the canceling party has first given ten
(10) days' notice in writing to the issuing authority of intent to cancel the
policy.
   B.   Subsection A of this section does not apply to licensees who by
affidavit establish that:
      1.   They are on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licensees with sales of
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) of 3.2 percent malt liquor
for the preceding year; or
      2.   They are off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licensees with sales of
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) of 3.2 percent malt liquor for
the preceding year; or
      3.   They are on-sale wine licensees with sales of less than twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) of wine for the preceding year. (Ord. 511, 6-20-
2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Similar provisions, MSA § 340A.409.
3-1-10: FEES; TERM 1 :
   A.   Each application for a license required by this chapter shall be
accompanied by a payment in full of the required fee for that license. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund. Upon rejection of any application for a
license or upon withdrawal of application before approval of the issuance by
the City Council, the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant except
where rejection is for a willful misstatement in the license application.
      1.   Payment of Annual Intoxicating Liquor and Malt Liquor License Fees
for Renewal of On-Sale Licenses for the licensing period of July 1, 2020
through June 30, 2021 shall be paid as follows:
         a.   One-quarter of the annual renewal fee prior to June 5, 2020;
         b.   One-quarter of the annual renewal fee prior to September 1, 2020;
         c.   One-quarter of the annual renewal fee prior to December 1, 2020;
         d.   One-quarter of the annual renewal fee prior to March 1, 2021.
         e.   The background investigation fee of one hundred dollars ($100)
will continue to be paid at the time the application is submitted for the
initial or annual renewal.
         f.   If the Governor's order requiring the closing of restaurants to
the public continues into the month of June, 2020 and later, then the City will
allow an additional month of proportional credit to the on-sale licensees for
each month that the restaurants remain fully closed to sit-down dining options.
         g.   If a licensee violates any Minnesota law regarding the selling of
alcohol then they shall be required to pay their license fees in full upon
notice from the city.
   B.   All licenses shall expire on June 30 in each year. Each license shall
be issued for a period of one (1) year, except that if a portion of the license
year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing such fee, any unexpired
fraction of a month shall be counted as one (1) month.
   C.   The annual fee for a license shall be as established by resolution.
   D.   Upon written request, a pro rata share of an annual license fee for a
retail license, may be refunded to the licensee or to the licensee's estate if:
      1.   The business ceases to operate because of destruction or damage;
      2.   The licensee dies;
      3.   The business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than a license
revocation; or
      4.   The licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business under the
license.
   E.   At the time of the original application for a license, the applicant
shall pay in full an investigation fee in the amount established by resolution.
No investigation fee shall be refunded. At any time that an additional
investigation is required because of a change in the ownership or control or
because of an enlargement, alteration, or extension of premises previously
licensed, the licensee shall pay an additional investigation fee in the amount
established by resolution.
   F.   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in their
annual license fee by the amount specified in Minnesota Statutes section
340A.408 if at the time of initial application or renewal they:
      1.   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the City train all
employees within sixty (60) days of hire and annually thereafter in laws
pertaining to the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      2.   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be thirty (30) years old or less;
      3.   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      4.   Failure to abide by the provisions of this paragraph may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to section
3-1-20 of this chapter. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017; amd. Ord. 557, 6-
2-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. License fees, MSA § 340A.408; term, MSA § 340A.411, subd. 2.
3-1-11: GRANTING OF LICENSES 1 :
   A.   Each license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be issued to the
applicant only and shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license
shall be issued only for the premises described in the application. No license
may be transferred to another place without the approval of the City Council.
   B.   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application
for a liquor license. The Council shall grant or refuse the application in its
discretion. No off-sale, wine, or club license shall become effective until the
Commissioner has approved it. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. License limited to space specified, MSA § 340A.410, subd. 7.
3-1-12: PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   (Rep. by Ord. 543, 10-16-2019)
   B.   On-Sale Licenses:
      1.   No on-sale tier one intoxicating liquor license shall be granted for
a restaurant or for a hotel that does not have a dining area, open to the
general public, with a total minimum floor area of two thousand (2,000) square
feet and dining facilities for seating a minimum of two hundred (200) guests at
one time.
      2.   No on-sale tier two intoxicating liquor license shall be granted for
a restaurant that does not have a dining area, open to the general public, with
a total minimum floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet and dining
facilities for seating a minimum of fifty (50) guests at one time.
      3.   No on-sale wine or on-sale 3.2 percent malt beverage license shall
be granted for a restaurant that does not have a dining area, open to the
public, with minimum seating for at least twenty five (25) guests at one time.
      4.   No on-sale license shall be granted for any place for which an off-
sale intoxicating liquor license has been granted under this chapter.
      5.   An on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license under this chapter may
only be issued to restaurants, hotels, clubs, golf courses and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor.
   C.   Off Sale Licenses:
      1.   No off sale license shall be granted for any establishment that is
licensed as an on sale establishment.
      2.   No off sale intoxicating liquor license shall be granted:
         a.   To any premises located in any zoning district other than a B-
4 Shopping Center District or an MU-PUD District.
         b.   Unless the premises proposed to be licensed contains the
following requirements:
            (1)   A minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet on
the ground floor level for sales and display area; and
            (2)   A minimum of five hundred (500) square feet of ground floor
area, screened from the display area, or basement level area of the licensed
premises for storage purposes. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-13: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions of the following
subsections and all other sections of this chapter, and of any other applicable
ordinance of the City or State law:
   A.   Posting: A retail license to sell alcoholic beverages must be posted in
a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used.
   B.   Conduct Of Business: Every licensee shall be responsible for the
conduct of the business and the conditions of sobriety and order in the place
of business and on the premises.
   C.   Inspection: All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by any
police officer or other designated officer or employee of the City at any time
there are persons within the licensed premises.
   D.   Restrictions On Sales:
      1.   Resale: No licensee under this chapter may sell intoxicating liquor,
wine, or 3.2 percent malt liquor to any person for the purpose of resale, or to
any person whom the licensee has reason to believe intends to resell the
intoxicating liquor, wine, or 3.2 percent malt liquor without written approval
of the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      2.   Hotel Rooms: No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made in
guestrooms of hotels unless the hotel has an on sale license under this
chapter. No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made to or in guestrooms of
hotels, unless the rules of such hotel provide for the service of meals in
guestrooms; unless the sale of such intoxicating liquor is made in the manner
in which on sale is required to be made; unless such sale accompanies and is
incident to the regular service of meals to guests therein; and unless the
rules of such hotel and the description, location and number of such guestrooms
are fully set out in the application for a license.
      3.   Club Sales: No club shall sell an alcoholic beverage except to club
members and to guests in the company of members.
   E.   Tampering With Contents:
      1.   No licensee shall sell, offer for sale, or keep for sale
intoxicating liquors in any original package which has been refilled or partly
refilled.
      2.   No licensee shall directly or indirectly through an agent, employee,
or any other person dilute or in any manner tamper with the contents of any
original package or bottle so as to change its composition or alcoholic content
while the contents are in the original package or bottle. Possession on the
premises of alcoholic beverages in the original package or bottle differing in
composition or alcoholic content from when it was received from the
manufacturer or wholesaler from whom it was purchased shall be prima facie
evidence that the contents of the original package or bottle have been diluted,
changed or tampered with in violation of this subsection.
   F.   Consumption On Approved Licensed Premises: Consumption of on- sale
alcoholic beverages is allowed only in the approved licensed premises. A
restaurant licensed to sell intoxicating liquor or wine at on-sale under this
section may permit a person purchasing a full bottle of wine in conjunction
with the purchase of a meal to remove the bottle on leaving the licensed
premises provided that the bottle has been opened and the contents partially
consumed. A removal of a bottle under the conditions described in this
subsection is not an off-sale of intoxicating liquor and may be permitted
without additional license.
   G.   Display Of Alcoholic Beverages During Prohibited Hours: No on sale
liquor licensee shall display intoxicating liquor, wine or 3.2 percent malt
liquor to the public during hours when the sale of intoxicating liquor, wine,
or 3.2 percent malt liquor is prohibited by this chapter.
   H.   Off Sale Licenses; Additional Restrictions:
      1.   Deliveries; Receipt Required: No off sale licensee, his agent or
employee, shall deliver any intoxicating liquor, wine or 3.2 percent malt
liquor to or at any place or premises without obtaining a receipt therefor,
signed by the person receiving such liquor and bearing the time, date and place
of delivery. Such receipts shall be kept in the files of the licensee for a
period of one (1) year, and such files and receipts shall be kept available for
inspection by the City Clerk or designated City employee at all hours during
which the licensed premises is open for business.
      2.   Business Name: The City shall not allow the same business name to be
used by more than one (1) of its off sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
      3.   Samples: No off sale licensee under this chapter shall sell or
furnish intoxicating liquor, wine, or 3.2 percent malt liquor on sale, except
an off sale licensee may provide samples of malt liquor, wine, liqueurs,
cordials, and distilled spirits which the licensee currently has in stock and
is offering for sale to the general public, provided the wine, liqueur,
cordial, and distilled spirits samples are dispensed at no charge and consumed
on the licensed premises during the permitted hours of off sale in a quantity
less than one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of malt liquor per variety per
customers, fifty milliliters (50 ml) of wine per variety per customer, and
twenty five milliliters (25 ml) of liqueur or cordial, and fifteen milliliters
(15 ml) of distilled spirits per variety per customer.
      4.   Distilled Spirits: An off sale licensee of intoxicating liquor may
sell distilled spirits in bottles of fifty milliliters (50 ml).
      5.   Coin Operated Amusement Devices: Coin operated amusement devices may
not be made available in establishments holding an off-sale license under this
chapter. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-14: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   The license granted under this chapter is for the person and the
premises named on the approved license application. No transfer of a license
shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person without
complying with the requirements of an original application, except in the case
in which an existing non-corporate licensee is incorporating and the
incorporation does not affect the ownership, control, and interest of the
existing licensed establishment.
   B.   A licensee under this chapter shall immediately notify the City Clerk
of the following:
      1.   A change in the corporate or organization officers listed in the
license application, excluding officers or clubs holding club licenses.
      2.   Any changes in the partnership agreement or lease submitted with the
license application.
      3.   A change of the managing partner, manager, proprietor, or other
person who is in charge of the licensed premises.
      4.   Any change in the ownership of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, including any acquisition of an interest in the partnership,
corporation, or other organization by any person not identified in the license
application.
   C.   When an establishment licensed under this chapter is sold or
transferred, the licensee shall immediately notify the City Clerk of the sale
or transfer. If the establishment that is sold or transferred is to continue
selling or furnishing intoxicating liquor, the new owner must immediately apply
for an appropriate license under this chapter. In addition, a management
agreement, which covers the period between the sale or transfer and the
issuance of the new owner's license, shall be executed between the existing
licensee and the new owner within twenty (20) days following the sale or
transfer. The management agreement shall vest control of all intoxicating
liquor sales in the existing licensee or a manager responsible to the existing
licensee. The agreement shall be approved by the City Council.
   D.   A management agreement shall be required of any licensed establishment
whose business is being managed or operated by a person other than the licensee
or an employee of the licensee. No person other than the licensee or an
employee of the licensee shall be permitted to manage or operate an
establishment licensed under this chapter until the City Council has reviewed
and approved the management agreement and any amendments thereto.
   E.   A Federally chartered corporation charged with insuring and/or holding
assets of banking or savings and loan institutions which obtains ownership of a
hotel or restaurant licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, files an application
for an on-sale liquor license for said establishment either in its name or the
name of a representative thereof, and demonstrates to the City Clerk that it is
unable to execute a management agreement with the existing licensee, may sell
intoxicating liquor at the hotel or restaurant pending a decision by the City
Council on whether to approve the application for the on-sale liquor license.
(Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-15: HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Restricted Hours And Days: Hours and days of operation shall be as
follows:
 
                       All On-Sale Liquor         All Off-Sale Liquor
                        Establishments             Establishments
                        Sales allowed between 10:  Sales allowed between 8:00
Monday through Saturday 00 A.M. and 12:45 A.M. the A.M. and 10:00 P.M.
                        following day
                        Sales allowed between 10:  Sales allowed between 11:
Sunday                  00 A.M. and 12:45 A.M.     00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
                        Monday
                        Sales allowed between 10:
Thanksgiving Day        00 A.M. and 12:45 A.M.     No sales allowed
                        Friday
Christmas Eve, December Sales allowed between 10:  Sales allowed between 8:00
24, if not a Sunday     00 A.M. and 12:45 A.M.     A.M. and 8:00 P.M.
                        December 25
Christmas Day, December Sales allowed between 10:
25                      00 A.M. and 12:45 A.M.     No sales allowed
                        December 26
 
   B.   On-Sale Licensees; Hours Of Consumption And Display: No on- sale
licensee shall permit the consumption or display of any beverages containing
more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume on his or her
premises during the hours when the sale of such beverage is prohibited by this
chapter or State law; provided, however, that the licensee shall be allowed a
thirty (30) minute period following the closing hour to clear the premises of
customers who were present at the closing hour, and such customers may consume
any such beverage purchased by them before the closing hour. All customers and
nonworking employees shall be cleared of the premises by thirty (30) minutes
past the closing hour. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-16: GAMBLING PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in Minnesota Statutes section 340A.410, no
retail establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages may keep, possess, or
operate, or permit the keeping, possession, or operation on the license
premises of dice or any gambling device as defined in Minnesota Statutes
section 349.30, or permit gambling therein.
   B.   Gambling equipment may be kept or operated and raffles conducted on
licensed premises and adjoining rooms when the use of the gambling equipment is
authorized under Minnesota Statutes chapter 349. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-
1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Similar provisions, MSA § 340A.410, subd. 5.
3-1-17: MINORS:
   A.   Consumption: It is unlawful for any:
      1.   Retail establishment holding a liquor license to permit any person
under twenty one (21) years of age to consume alcoholic beverages on the
license premises; or
      2.   Person under twenty one (21) years of age to consume any alcoholic
beverages unless in the household of the person's parent or guardian and with
the consent of the parent or guardian.
   B.   Purchasing: It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a person
under twenty one (21) years of age, except that a parent or guardian of a
person under twenty one (21) years of age may give or furnish alcoholic
beverages to that person solely for the consumption in the household of the
parent or guardian.
      2.   Under twenty one (21) years of age to purchase or attempt to
purchase any alcoholic beverage; or
      3.   To induce a person under twenty one (21) years of age to purchase or
procure any alcoholic beverage;
      4.   For a person under twenty one (21) years of age to request a person
over twenty one (21) years of age to sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic
beverages to a person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   C.   Possession: It is unlawful for a person under twenty one (21) years of
age to possess any alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it at a place
other than the household of the person's parent or guardian. Possession at a
place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of the
parent or guardian.
   D.   Entering License Premises: It is unlawful for a person under twenty one
(21) years of age to enter an establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages or any Municipal liquor store for the purpose of purchasing or having
served or delivered any alcoholic beverage.
   E.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It is unlawful for a person under twenty one
(21) years of age to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing
alcoholic beverages.
   F.   Proof Of Age: Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver's license or State
identification card, a valid military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense, or in the case of a foreign national by a valid
passport. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-18: SALES TO, CONSUMPTION BY CERTAIN PERSONS:
   A.   Intoxicated Persons: No person may sell, give, furnish, or in any way
procure for another alcoholic beverages for the use of an obviously intoxicated
person.
   B.   Consumption On Unlicensed Premises: No person shall consume or mix or
prepare intoxicating liquor for consumption in any public place not licensed or
authorized in accordance with the ordinances of the City of Mendota Heights and
the State of Minnesota. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-19: ALTERATION OF PREMISES:
Proposed enlargement, alteration or extension of premises previously licensed
shall be reported to the City Clerk at or before the time application is made
for a building permit for any such change, and the licensee shall also give
such information as is required by section
3-1-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-20: SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The City Council may either suspend for up to sixty (60) days or revoke
a license to sell alcoholic beverages or impose a civil fine not to exceed two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each violation on a finding that the license
or permit holder has failed to comply with an applicable statute, regulation,
or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages. No suspension or revocation takes
effect until the license holder has been afforded the opportunity for a hearing
under sections 14.57 to 14.70 of the Administrative Procedures Act.
   B.   If the Commissioner of Public Safety has imposed a civil penalty or a
suspension against the same licensee for the same act, imposition of an
additional penalty or suspension by the City is not precluded; provided, that
the total penalty or suspension does not exceed the maximum specified by State
law. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
3-1-21: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall commit or do any other act that violates the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed seven hundred
dollars ($700.00) or imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days,
or both. (Ord. 511, 6-20-2017, eff. 7-1-2017)
CHAPTER 2
TOBACCO SALES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions And Interpretation
3-2-3: License
3-2-4: License Fee
3-2-5: Grounds For Denial Of License
3-2-6: Prohibited Sales; Illegal Acts
3-2-7: Self-Service Sales
3-2-8: Responsibility For Employees
3-2-9: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-2-10: Civil Enforcement
3-2-11: Notice Of Violation
3-2-12: Penalties
3-2-13: Hearings And Appeals
3-2-14: Severability
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
Because the City recognizes that:
   A.   Tobacco use has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter is intended to regulate the sale of tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or
lobelia delivery devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing
laws, and to protect youth and young adults against the serious effects
associated with use and initiation.
   B.   Youth and young people are particularly susceptible to the addictive
properties of tobacco products, and are particularly likely to become lifelong
users. National data show that about ninety five percent (95%) of adult smokers
begin smoking before they turn twenty one (21). The ages of eighteen (18) to
twenty one (21) are a critical period when many smokers move from experimental
smoking to regular, daily use. Electronic delivery device use among youth has
recently tripled. Young minds are particularly susceptible to the addictive
properties of nicotine. As a result, approximately three (3) out of four (4)
teen smokers end up smoking into adulthood.
   C.   Public health research and tobacco industry documents and marketing
reveal that tobacco companies have used menthol, mint, wintergreen, fruit,
candy, and alcohol flavors as a way to target youth and young adults. The
presence of flavors in tobacco products can make it more difficult for youth,
young adults, and adult tobacco users to quit.
This chapter is intended to regulate the sale of tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices to protect the public, especially youth and young adults, and
to further the official public policy of the State in regard to preventing
young people from starting to smoke as stated in Minnesota Statutes section
144.391, as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-
1-2019)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular; the masculine shall
include the feminine and vice versa; the term "shall" means mandatory and the
term "may" means permissive. The following terms shall have the definitions
given to them:
CIGAR: Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in Minnesota Statutes section 297F.01, subd. 3, as may
be amended from time to time.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery devices are
following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. Compliance
checks shall involve the use of persons under twenty one (21) years of age as
authorized by this chapter. Compliance checks shall also mean the use of
persons under twenty one (21) years of age who attempt to purchase tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices for educational, research and training
purposes as authorized by State and Federal laws. Compliance checks may also be
conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate
Federal, State or local laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or
lobelia delivery devices.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption through the
inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. Electronic delivery device
includes, but is not limited to, devices manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-
cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, mods, tank systems, or under any
other product name or descriptor. Electronic delivery device includes any
component part of a product, whether or not marketed or sold separately.
Electronic delivery device does not include any product that has been approved
or certified by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco- cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an approved purpose.
FLAVORED PRODUCT: Any tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device,
electronic delivery device, and nicotine or lobelia delivery device that
contains a taste or smell, other than the taste or smell of tobacco that is
distinguishable by an ordinary consumer either prior to or during the
consumption of the product, including, but not limited to, any taste or smell
relating to menthol, mint, wintergreen, chocolate, cocoa, vanilla, honey,
fruit, or any candy, dessert, alcoholic beverage, herb, or spice. A public
statement or claim, whether express or implied, made or disseminated by the
manufacturer of a tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, electronic
delivery device, and nicotine or lobelia delivery device, or by any person
authorized or permitted by the manufacturer to make or disseminate public
statements concerning such products, that a product has or produces a taste or
smell other than tobacco will constitute presumptive evidence that the product
is a flavored product.
INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco product
wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered "individually packaged".
INDOOR AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls,
doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than fifty percent
(50%) of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the
perimeter of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or
other physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette or any other tobacco product that has been removed from its packaging
and sold individually. The term "loosies" does not include individual cigars
with a retail price, before any Sales Taxes, of more than two dollars ($2.00)
per cigar.
MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a truck, van,
automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a fixed
address storefront or other permanent type of structure authorized for sales
transactions.
NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco as defined in this section, not including any
product that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation, harm
reduction, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices are available for sale. The phrase shall include, but not be
limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, and drugstores.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery
devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices, without the assistance or intervention of
the licensee or the licensee's employee. Such assistance or intervention shall
involve the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco
related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery
devices between the customer and the licensee or employee. Self- service sales
are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual physical
exchange of the product between the clerk and the customer. "Self-service
merchandising" shall not include vending machines.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product, whether natural or
synthetic, containing, made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or
other plant, that is intended for inhalation. Smoking also includes carrying or
using an activated electronic delivery device.
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Tobacco and tobacco products includes cigarettes
and any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is intended for
human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or
accessory of a tobacco product; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff, fine cut or other
chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut,
ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flour; cavendish; shorts; plug
and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds or forms of tobacco. Tobacco excludes any
tobacco product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for such an approved purpose.
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling papers,
or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which
enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking of tobacco or tobacco products.
Tobacco related devices also includes components of tobacco-related devices
which may be marketed or sold separately.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of self-
service device which, upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of
payment, dispenses the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related devices and
includes vending machines equipped with manual, electric or electronic locking
devices. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-3: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices without first having obtained a license to
do so from the City Clerk or other such City office which the City Council may
from time to time designate to carry out the duties of the City Clerk set forth
in this chapter.
   B.   Application: An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or
lobelia delivery devices shall be made on a form provided by the City. The
application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant's
residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the
business for which the license is sought, and any additional information the
City deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk
shall forward the application to the City Council for action at its next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the City Clerk shall determine
that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   C.   Action: The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council approves the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license to
the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the City Council's decision.
   D.   Term: All licenses issued under this section shall expire on December
31 of the year of issuance.
   E.   Suspension: Any license issued under this section may be suspended as
provided in this chapter.
   F.   Transfers: All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   G.   Movable Place Of Business: No license shall be issued to a movable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this section.
   H.   Display: All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed property.
   I.   Renewals: The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days but no more than sixty (60)
days before the expiration of the current license.
   J.   Issuance As Privilege And Not A Right: The issuance of a license under
this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
   K.   Smoking Not Permitted: Smoking shall not be permitted and no person
shall smoke within the indoor area of any establishment with a retail tobacco
license. Smoking for the purposes of sampling tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices is prohibited.
   L.   E-Cigarettes: Smoking of e-cigarettes, or electronic delivery devices
as defined herein, is prohibited in any area that Minnesota State Statute
restricts the smoking of tobacco products. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-
2019)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEE:
No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license fee
is paid in full. The license fee will not be prorated for any applicants. The
fee for a license under this chapter shall be set in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-5: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license
under this chapter. The following list is not exhaustive or exclusive:
   A.   The applicant is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of any
violation of a Federal, State, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices,
electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices.
   C.   The applicant or license holder has had a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices revoked within the preceding twelve (12)
months of the date of application or is subject to penalties under section
3-2-12 of this chapter.
   D.   The applicant or license holder fails to provide any of the information
required on the application or provides false or misleading information.
   E.   The applicant or license holder is prohibited by Federal, State or
other local law, ordinance or regulation from holding such a license.
   F.   The applicant or license holder has outstanding fines, penalties, or
Property Taxes owed to the City. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-6: PROHIBITED SALES; ILLEGAL ACTS:
   A.   Sales Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell,
offer for sale, give away, furnish or otherwise deliver tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or
lobelia delivery devices:
         a.   To any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
            (1)   Signage: Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted at each location where tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices are offered for sale. The required signage, which will be
provided to the licensee by the City, must be posted in a manner that is
clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
         b.   By means of any type of vending machine.
         c.   By means of "loosies" as defined in section
3-2-2 of this chapter.
         d.   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
         e.   By any other means, to any other person, in any other manner or
form prohibited by Federal, State or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.
   B.   Flavored Products: No person shall sell or offer for sale any flavored
product in any retail establishment as defined in section
3-2-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Prohibited Acts: Unless otherwise provided, the following acts
shall be violations of this chapter:
      1.   False Identification: For any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form of
identification, whether the identification is that of another person or one on
which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with, to represent an
age older than the actual age of the person.
      2.   Smoking: Notwithstanding any exceptions for tobacco products shops
as set forth in the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act, no licensee shall directly
or indirectly permit smoking in the licensed retail establishment. All
licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees and patrons in regard to any smoking in the licensed retail
establishment. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-7: SELF-SERVICE SALES:
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery
devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, tobacco related device, electronic
delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery device between the licensee
or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
devices shall be stored behind the counter. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-
2019)
3-2-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EMPLOYEES:
All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related
devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices
on the licensed retail establishment premises and the sale of such an item by
an employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. (Ord. 536, 11-20-
2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-9: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed retail establishments shall be open to inspection by City
officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once
per year, a Mendota Heights police officer or other City employee as designated
by the Chief of Police, shall conduct compliance checks to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Such compliance checks shall utilize
persons over the age of fifteen (15) years but less than twenty one (21) years,
to enter the licensed retail establishment to attempt to purchase tobacco,
tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery devices. Prior written consent from a parent or
guardian is required for any person under the age of eighteen (18) who
participates in a compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance
checks shall be supervised by designated law enforcement officers or other
designated City personnel. No person used in the compliance checks shall
attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the person's age, and all
persons lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall truthfully answer all
questions about the person's age for which the person is asked by the licensee
or his or her employee and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for
which he or she is asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit other
compliance checks authorized by State or Federal laws for educational, research
or training purposes or required for the enforcement of a particular State or
Federal law. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-10: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
The license holder shall be responsible for the conduct of its agents or
employees while they are on the licensed retail establishment. Any violation of
this chapter shall be considered an act of the license holder for purposes of
imposing a civil penalty or license suspension. Each violation, and every day
in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-11: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Upon discovery of a suspected violation of this chapter, the Mendota Heights
Police Department shall inform the City Clerk of the suspected violation. The
City Clerk shall then send to the license holder, by mail, a written notice of
the civil violation. The notice shall inform the license holder of the penalty
and the license holder's right to request a hearing regarding the violation of
this chapter pursuant to section
3-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-12: PENALTIES:
   A.   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this chapter or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter shall be charged an administrative
fine pursuant to the schedule found at Minnesota State Statutes, section
461.12, subdivision 2, as amended, with the reference to "18 years" in said
statute to be changed to "21 years" for purposes of this chapter.
   B.   Individuals: Individuals found to be selling tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia
delivery devices to persons under twenty one (21) years of age in violation of
this chapter shall be charged an administrative fine as set forth by State
Statute 461.12, subdivision 3, as amended, with the reference to "18 years" in
said statute to be changed to "21 years" for purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One: Persons under the age of twenty
one (21) who use a false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco related devices, electronic delivery
devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery devices may only be subject to a non-
criminal, non- monetary penalty, including but not limited to: civil tobacco-
related education classes, diversion programs, community services, or another
penalty that the City believes will be appropriate and effective. The City
Attorney will consult with the courts, to determine an appropriate penalty for
persons under the age of twenty one (21) in the City. The penalty may be
established by ordinance and amended from time to time.
   D.   Misdemeanor And Other Prosecution: Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the City Attorney or County Attorney from seeking prosecution as a
misdemeanor against any person twenty one (21) years and older for any
violation of this chapter, or from enforcing any other applicable State or
Federal law or regulation in addition to or instead of any civil enforcement
remedy that may be sought under this chapter.
   E.   Penalties Reviewed Annually: Penalties in this section may be annually
reviewed. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-13: HEARINGS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Request And Time For Hearings:
      1.   Following receipt of a notice of denial issued under section
3-2-3 of this chapter or a notice of violation and penalty issued under section
3-2-12 of this chapter, an applicant or license holder may request a hearing
before the City Council, or his/her designee. A request for hearing shall be
made by the applicant or license holder in writing and filed with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days of the mailing of the notice of denial or alleged
violation. Following receipt of a written request for hearing, the applicant or
license holder shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the City
Council.
      2.   If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a hearing
shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and provided
to the accused violator.
      3.   Such hearing shall be held as determined by the City Council and
shall be open to the public.
   B.   Findings And Actions: If, after the hearing, the applicant or license
holder is found ineligible for a license, or in violation of this chapter, the
City Council may affirm the denial, impose a fine, issue a suspension, or
impose any combination thereof. The decision shall be in writing and set forth
the reasons for the findings of the City Council. A copy shall be provided to
the applicant or license holder. Likewise, if the City Council finds that no
violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings
shall be recorded and a copy provided to the applicant or license holder.
   C.   Decisions: Regardless of whether a hearing is held pursuant to this
section, if the City Council determines that a violation of this chapter did
occur, that decision, along with the City Council's reasons for finding a
violation and the penalty to be imposed under section
3-2-12 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing. A copy shall be provided
to the accused violator. Likewise, if the City Council finds that no violation
occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings shall be
recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   D.   Appeals: Any appeal from the decision of the City Council must be filed
with the District Court within ten (10) days of the mailing of the City
Council's decision.
   E.   Default: If the applicant or license holder has been provided written
notice of the denial or violation and if no request for a hearing before the
City Council is filed within the ten (10) day period provided by this section,
then the denial, penalty, and/or suspension imposed pursuant to this chapter
shall take immediate effect by default. The City Clerk shall mail the notice of
denial, fine, and/or suspension to the applicant or license holder. (Ord. 536,
11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-2019)
3-2-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section or provision of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity
will not affect other sections or provisions that can be given force and effect
without the invalidated section or provision. (Ord. 536, 11-20-2018, eff. 3-1-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Exceptions To Definitions
3-3-4: License Required For Peddlers And Transient Merchants And License Fee
3-3-5: Registration Required For Solicitors And Professional Fundraisers
3-3-6: License And Registration Form
3-3-7: Background Investigation
3-3-8: Hours Allowed
3-3-9: Certain Sales Prohibited
3-3-10: Duration Of License And Registration
3-3-11: License Not Transferable
3-3-12: License To Be Carried
3-3-13: Practices Prohibited
3-3-14: Revocation
3-3-15: Exclusion by Placard
3-3-16: Penalty
3-3-17: Mobile Food Trucks
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
To protect the public's health, safety and welfare, the city deems it necessary
to regulate door-to-door or street solicitation through a licensing or
registration process. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them:
 
                         A motorized vehicle or trailer that is designed and
MOBILE FOOD TRUCK:       operated for the purpose of preparing and/or selling
                         food and nonalcoholic beverages to the general public.
                         Any person who goes door to door to residences, or
                         business to business, for the purpose of selling or
PEDDLER:                 attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon
                         the sale, the goods or merchandise that the person is
                         carrying.
                         Any person, including a corporation or other entity,
PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER: who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or
                         other services for a religious, political, social,
                         non-profit, or other charitable organization.
                         Any day during which the city hall is normally open
REGULAR BUSINESS DAY:    for public business. Holidays defined by state law
                         shall not be considered regular business days.
                         Any person who goes door to door to residences, or
                         business to business, for the purpose of obtaining or
SOLICITOR:               attempting to obtain orders for goods or merchandise
                         including books, periodicals, magazines or personal
                         property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery.
                         Any person, firm or corporation who engages
                         temporarily in the business of selling and delivering
TRANSIENT MERCHANT:      goods or merchandise, and who, in furtherance of such
                         purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
                         structure, vacant lot, motor vehicle, or trailer.
                         (Ord. 475, 4-7-2015; amd. Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
 
3-3-3: EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms peddler, solicitor, and transient
merchant shall not apply to:
   A.   Non-commercial soliciting, including door to door canvassing and
pamphleting intended for noncommercial purposes.
   B.   Canvassing, soliciting, or fund raising for the purpose of a charitable
organization if the organization is registered with the Minnesota attorney
general.
   C.   Fundraising for a school, religious, or service organization.
   D.   Newspaper/magazine carriers.
   E.   Merchants delivering goods in the regular course of business when the
delivery occurs at the customer's home or place of business.
   F.   Persons who sell products of the farm or garden occupied, grown or
cultivated by such person.
   G.   Persons who conduct garage sales, rummage sales, estate sales, or flea
markets.
   H.   Auctions conducted by a licensed auctioneer or an officer of the court
conducting a court-ordered sale.
   I.   Persons who are exercising their state or federal constitutional rights
such as the freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and
the like.
   J.   Any utility provider who has a franchise agreement with the City of
Mendota Heights attempting to increase their customer base.
(Ord. 475, 4-7-2015)
3-3-4: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR PEDDLERS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND LICENSE FEE:
No peddler or transient merchant shall sell or offer for sale any goods or
merchandise within the City without first obtaining a city license. Each
peddler or transient merchant shall secure a separate license.
The City Council shall establish the license fee for peddlers or transient
merchants in the fee schedule. No refunds shall be made on unused portions of
licenses. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-5: REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR SOLICITORS AND PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISERS:
No solicitor shall take orders for any goods or merchandise within the City
without first registering with the city. No professional fundraiser shall
perform any solicitations or other services within the city without first
registering with the city. No fee will be charged for solicitors and
professional fundraisers registering with the city. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-6: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FORM:
The application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk on a form
supplied by the City at least fifteen (15) regular business days before the
start of business.
Registration with the city shall be made to the City Clerk on a form supplied
by the City.
The license application and registration form shall state:
   A.   Applicant's name, former names, current address, date of birth,
telephone number, and state issued identification number.
   B.   The places of residence of the applicant for the previous five (5)
years;
   C.   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color, height,
weight, distinguishing marks)
   D.   Full legal name of the business operation for which the applicant is
peddling, soliciting, or selling for, and the permanent address and phone
number of the business;
   E.   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business;
   F.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted with
the last five (5) years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than minor
traffic offenses;
   G.   A list of the three (3) most recent municipalities, if any, where the
applicant has conducted business;
   H.   Proof of any required county license;
   I.   For a transient merchant, the address where the business is to be
located;
   J.   Written permission from the property owner for the location to be used
by a transient merchant;
   K.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
   L.   Descriptions and license plate numbers of all vehicles to be used;
   M.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the City Clerk;
   N.   Signature of applicant. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-7: BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION:
For peddlers and transient merchants, the applicant must authorize the Mendota
Heights Police Department to investigate all facts set out in the application
and conduct a personal background and criminal record check. The applicant
shall further authorize the Police Department to release information received
from such investigation to the City Clerk. Should the City deny the applicant's
request for a license due, partially or solely, to the applicant's prior
conviction of a crime, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant, in writing,
of the following:
   A.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
   B.   The applicable complaint and grievance procedure set forth in Minnesota
Statute Section 364.06;
   C.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplying.
When all of the requirements of this Chapter have been met, the Clerk shall
issue a license. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-8: HOURS ALLOWED:
Peddlers, solicitors, professional fundraisers, and transient merchants are
allowed to conduct business between the hours of 9:00 am to one-half hour
before sunset. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-9: CERTAIN SALES PROHIBITED:
No peddler, solicitor, professional fundraiser, or transient merchant shall
sell or solicit orders for goods or services which are otherwise illegal. (Ord.
569, 7-6- 2021)
3-3-10: DURATION OF LICENSE AND REGISTRATION:
Each peddler license and solicitor or professional fundraiser registration
shall be valid from the date of approval and expire on December 31 of the year
issued.
Each transient merchant license shall be valid for one fourteen (14)
consecutive day period, per year. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-11: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
All licenses shall be nontransferable. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-12: LICENSE TO BE CARRIED:
Each peddler shall carry a city license. A license shall be conspicuously
posted in a transient merchant's place of business. The license shall be
exhibited to any officer or citizen upon request.
All peddlers, solicitors, professional fundraisers, and transient merchants
shall wear a badge showing their name and company working for, if applicable.
(Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-13: PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
No peddler, solicitor, professional fundraiser, or transient merchant shall
call attention to their business or to their merchandise by crying out, by
blowing a horn, or ringing a bell, or by any loud or unusual noise. (Ord. 569,
7-6-2021)
3-3-14: REVOCATION:
Any license may be revoked by the Council for a violation of any provision of
this Chapter if the licensee has been given a written notice and been informed
of their right to a hearing. Notice of revocation will be delivered in person
or by mail to the permanent residential address listed on the application. If
no residential address is listed, the notice will be delivered to the business
address provided on the application.
Upon receiving the notice of revocation, the licensee shall have the right to
request a public hearing before the City Council. If no request for a hearing
is received by the city clerk within ten (10) regular business days following
the date on the notice, the city may proceed with the revocation. If a public
hearing is requested, a hearing shall be scheduled within twenty (20) regular
business days from the date of the request or the next regularly scheduled City
Council meeting. Within three (3) regular business days after the hearing, the
City Council shall notify the licensee of its decision.
If, in the discretion of the Chief of Police, imminent harm to the health or
safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a peddler or transient
merchant licensed under this ordinance, the Chief of Police may immediately
suspend the license and provide notice of the right to a public hearing.
Any person whose license is revoked under this section shall have the right to
appeal that decision in court. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-15: EXCLUSION BY PLACARD:
Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no peddler,
solicitor, professional fundraiser, transient merchant, or other person engaged
in similar activities shall enter onto the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business when the property is marked with a sign or placard that
is at least four inches long and four inches wide, with print of at least
forty-eight (48) point in size, stating “Peddlers and Solicitors Prohibited,”
or other comparable statement. No peddler, solicitor, professional fundraiser,
or transient merchant shall remain in or upon any premises when told by the
property owner or tenant to leave the premises.
No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or
tamper with any sign or placard under this section. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-16: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-3-17: MOBILE FOOD TRUCKS:
For purpose of this chapter, the intent of this section is to regulate how
mobile food truck vendors sell food and/or nonalcoholic beverages to the
general public within the industrial zoning district.
   A.   Registration Required: Annual registration shall be required for each
separate property on which the mobile food truck vendor operates.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any mobile food truck vendor to sell, or
offer for sale, any food or beverage without first registering with the city
clerk, or his/her designee.
      2.   Not later than thirty (30) days after filing of a completed
application, the applicant shall be notified of acceptance or denial of
registration.
      3.   The application shall be accompanied by proof of insurance and
approval of any and all health department requirements whether from Dakota
County or the state of Minnesota.
      4.   Mobile food truck vendors shall carry one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) of combined single limit bodily injury and property damage auto
liability, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of general liability coverage
including products and completed operations. A certificate of insurance shall
be provided to the city prior to the issuance of a permit.
   B.   Operations Requirements: Mobile food truck vendors shall operate under
the following conditions:
      1.   Hours of operation are limited to between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and two o'clock (2:00) P.M.
      2.   All required licenses must be valid.
      3.   Vendors shall be parked on private property with the property
owner's permission and shall not be parked within any public street, right of
way or sidewalk unless said street has been closed for a special event, as
approved by the city council.
      4.   Vendors shall be responsible for the proper disposal of waste and
trash associated with the operation. City trash receptacles are not to be used
for this purpose. Vendors shall remove all waste and trash from their location
at the end of each day or as needed to maintain the health and safety of the
public. The vendor shall keep all areas within ten feet (10') of the truck
clean of grease, trash, paper, cups or cans associated with their operation. No
liquid waste or grease is to be disposed into tree pits, storm sewer drains or
onto sidewalks, streets or other public space. Under no circumstances shall
grease be released into or disposed of into the city's sanitary sewer system.
      5.   There shall be no audio amplifier or similar device to attract the
attention of the public.
      6.   No tables, chairs or other structures, except those to hold/display
condiments, shall be allowed outside of the food truck within public right of
way, designated off street parking spaces, fire lanes, or driveways. This shall
not preclude any existing structures that are on the property.
      7.   Advertising consisting of business name, logo, and items available
for sale may be displayed on the food truck. No other form of on site
advertising shall be permitted.
      8.   The mobile food truck owner or his/her designee shall be present at
all times except in an emergency.
   C.   Location: Mobile food truck vendors may operate within the following
zoning district(s): I industrial.
   D.   Special Events: Special events proposed to be located in nonindustrial
zones of the city may use mobile food trucks upon registration with the city.
Said events shall occur no more frequently than one time per year. These events
must be in compliance with all criteria outlined in subsections A and B of this
section, but changes in the hours of operation may be considered. Any
permission for special event mobile food trucks may be granted by the city
administrator. (Ord. 475, 4-7-2015; amd. Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING CONTRACTORS
(Rep. by Ord. 550, 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 5
RENTAL HOUSING
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose And Scope
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: General Licensing Provisions
3-5-4: Conditions Of License
3-5-5: Enforcement
3-5-6: Liability
3-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to assure that rental housing in the city's
R-1 one-family residential zoning district is decent, safe and sanitary and is
operated and maintained in accordance with the city's regulations. The
implementation of a rental licensing program in the R-1 zoning district is a
mechanism to ensure that rental single-family housing will not become a
nuisance to the neighborhood; will not foster blight and deterioration; and/or
will not create a disincentive to reinvestment in the community. The operation
of rental housing entails certain responsibilities. Owners of rental housing
are responsible to take the reasonable necessary steps to ensure that those
individuals who occupy rental housing units may pursue the quiet enjoyment of
the normal activities of life in the surrounding area that are: safe, secure,
and sanitary; free from crimes and criminal activity, noise, nuisances or
annoyances; free from unreasonable fears about safety of persons and security
of property; and suitable for raising children. (Ord. 407, 4-4-2006)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:
DWELLING: A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied for residential purposes; but not including rooms in motels, hotels,
nursing homes, boarding houses, tents and recreational vehicles, or attached
multiple- family dwellings.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential accommodation located within a dwelling that
includes permanently installed cooking, sleeping, and sanitation facilities,
designed or intended for use as living quarters for a single family. Dwelling
units subject to this chapter are defined as being detached dwelling units in
the R-1 one-family zoning district.
OCCUPANT: A person who lives or sleeps in a dwelling unit.
OWNER: A person who is the recorded or unrecorded owner of the dwelling unit.
RENT: To permit occupancy of a dwelling unit by a person other than the legal
owner thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten agreement, whether or not a
fee is required by the agreement.
RENTAL DWELLING: A dwelling unit that has been rented.
TENANT: A person who occupies a rental dwelling. (Ord. 407, 4-4-2006)
3-5-3: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall rent a single-family detached
dwelling unit in the R-1 zoning district to another for occupancy unless the
city has issued a rental license for the dwelling unit.
   B.   License Application: The owner of a dwelling unit may submit an
application for a rental license on forms provided by the city administrator or
official designee. A person who has been issued a rental license shall give
notice, in writing, to the city administrator, within five (5) business days of
any change in the information contained on the license application.
   C.   License Fees: Licensing fees shall be prescribed, from time to time, by
council resolution, and maintained on file in the office of the city
administrator. The required fees shall be submitted along with the application
for a new or renewal license. Applications for a renewal license submitted
after the license term expiration are subject to a penalty fee.
   D.   License Terms: All dwelling unit rental licenses shall expire on
December 31 of each year except as otherwise provided herein or in cases of
suspension or revocation.
   E.   License Issuance: The city shall issue a dwelling unit rental license
if real estate taxes and municipal utility bills for the dwelling unit have
been paid, and city has no record of unresolved complaints regarding the
property subject to the rental license.
   F.   Renewal Of License: A licensee may continue to rent a dwelling unit
after the expiration date of the rental license provided that the owner has
filed with the city administrator, on or before the expiration date, the
appropriate renewal license application and license fee, and provided that the
city has no record of unresolved complaints regarding the property subject to
the rental license.
   G.   Transfer Of License: A rental license shall not be transferable to
another person or to another dwelling unit. (Ord. 407, 4-4-2006)
3-5-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Dwelling unit rental licenses shall be issued subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   Tenant Register: The owner shall keep or cause to be kept, a current
register of occupancy for each dwelling unit which shall be made available for
viewing or copying by the city administrator as requested. Said register shall
provide, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   Address of dwelling unit.
      2.   Number of bedrooms in dwelling unit.
      3.   Number of adults and children (under 18 years of age) currently
occupying or proposed to occupy the dwelling unit.
   B.   Conduct On Licensed Premises:
      1.   Disorderly Conduct: It is the responsibility of the owner to see
that persons occupying the licensed premises conduct themselves in such a
manner so as not to cause the premises to be disorderly or constitute a
nuisance. (Ord. 407, 4-4-2006)
3-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The application for a dwelling unit rental license will be reviewed by the city
administrator. The city administrator may conduct inspections of the rental
dwelling units to determine the compliance with the applicable provisions of
this code.
   A.   License Suspension Or Revocation, Or Refusal To Renew: A dwelling unit
rental license is subject to suspension or revocation by the city council, or
the city may refuse to renew a license that expires, for the reasons specified
herein. Prior to suspension, revocation, the owner shall be notified in writing
at least five (5) days prior to the city council's consideration of such
action. In the event that a dwelling unit rental license is suspended or
revoked by the city council, or a renewal application is denied, it shall be
unlawful for the owner to thereafter permit any new occupancies for vacant, or
thereafter vacated dwelling units, until the dwelling unit rental license has
been reissued. Issuance of a new dwelling unit rental license shall be made in
the manner provided in section
3-5-3 of this chapter for obtaining an initial license. A dwelling unit rental
license may be suspended or revoked, or renewal may be refused, for any of the
following reasons:
      1.   Failure of owner or its agent to operate or maintain the dwelling
unit in compliance with the provisions of the city's regulations.
      2.   The activities of the owner or tenants of the rental unit create or
have created a danger to the public health, safety or welfare.
      3.   The owner or tenants of the rental unit occupy and/or operate the
unit in a manner that permits conditions that injure, annoy, or endanger the
safety, health, morals, comfort and repose of any member of the public. (Ord.
407, 4-4-2006)
3-5-6: LIABILITY:
Neither the city nor its employees or agents shall be deemed liable for damages
to a third person or property by reason of this chapter. (Ord. 407, 4-4-2006)
ARTICLE A. SHORT TERM RENTALS
SECTION:
3-5A-1: Purpose And Scope
3-5A-2: Definitions
3-5A-3: Authorization And General Licensing Provisions
3-5A-4: Conditions Of License
3-5A-5: Enforcement
3-5A-6: Exemptions
3-5A-7: No Warranty By City
3-5A-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to assure that short-term rental of dwelling
units in the City’s R-1 one-family residential zoning district is conducted,
operated, and maintained so as not to become a nuisance to the surrounding
neighborhood or an influence that fosters blight and deterioration or creates a
disincentive to reinvest in the community. The City recognizes that short-term
rentals provide an opportunity for residents to use their property to generate
supplemental income; and, when properly managed, short-term rentals have a
minimal impact on surrounding properties. When not properly managed, short-term
rentals have the capacity to generate noise, traffic, and trash beyond what is
typically present in a residential neighborhood creating a nuisance. These
issues can be especially acute when the owner of the property does not reside
in the home. In order to promote the health, safety, general welfare,
aesthetics, and image of the community, the City facilitates and regulates the
use of residential properties for short-term rentals by requiring the licensure
of short-term rentals. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:
BEDROOM: A habitable room within a single-family dwelling which is used, or
intended to be used, primarily for the purpose of sleeping, but shall not
include any kitchen or dining room. The room shall have a method of egress in
addition to the primary entry door to the room in accordance with the Minnesota
Residential Building Code.
DWELLING: A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied for residential purposes; but not including rooms in motels, hotels,
nursing homes, boarding houses, tents and recreational vehicles, or attached
multiple- family dwellings.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential accommodation located within a dwelling that
includes permanently installed cooking, sleeping, and sanitation facilities,
designed or intended for use as living quarters for a single family. Dwelling
units subject to this chapter are defined as being detached dwelling units in
the R-1 one-family zoning district.
OCCUPANT: A person who lives or sleeps in a dwelling unit.
OWNER: Any person having a legal or equitable interest who is the recorded or
unrecorded owner, or otherwise has control, of the dwelling unit.
PRIMARY RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit where the property owner: lives in the
property for more than six months a year; qualifies for Homestead tax
classification as defined by MN Statutes 273.124 and as determined by the
Dakota County Assessor.
RENT: To permit occupancy of a dwelling unit by a person other than the legal
owner thereof, pursuant to a written or unwritten agreement, whether or not a
fee is required by the agreement.
SHORT TERM HOME RENTAL: The furnishing for consideration of lodging to tourist
or transient guests in a dwelling or dwelling unit, where the renting or
letting for occupancy is for a temporary period of time that is thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days or less.
SHORT TERM RENTAL GUEST: Any person who, at their own expense or at the expense
of another, exercises occupancy or possession, or is entitled to occupancy or
possession, by reason of any rental agreement, concession, permit, right of
access, option to purchase, license, time-sharing arrangement, or any other
type of agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or
less. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-3: AUTHORIZATION AND GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authorization. Rental of all or a portion of a primary residence as a
short term home rental by an owner to a short term rental guest is allowed as
provided by this Section 3-5A, following the issuance of a license as set forth
herein.
   B.   General Licensing Provisions.
      1.   License Required:
         a.   No property shall be used as a short-term rental without a
license issued by the City. The license once issued shall be valid for a period
of one year from the date of issuance and must be renewed annually. This
requirement applies to short term home rentals unless exempted pursuant to
Section
3-5A-6 .
      2.   License Application:
         a.   Application for a license shall be made to the City upon a form
furnished by the City. A person who has been issued a rental license shall give
notice, in writing, to the city administrator, within five (5) business days of
any change in the information contained on the license application.
      3.   License Fees:
         a.   Licensing fees shall be prescribed as set forth in the City’s fee
schedule, and maintained on file in the office of the city administrator. The
required fees shall be submitted along with the application for a new or
renewal license. Applications for a renewal license submitted after the license
term expiration are subject to a penalty fee.
      4.   License Terms:
         a.   All short term rental licenses shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year, except as otherwise provided herein or in cases of suspension or
revocation.
         b.   In order to be issued a license the applicant must submit the
following application materials:
            (A)   Name and address of the short term rental property and the
property owner.
            (B)   Name, address, and phone number of a local agent authorized
to be the emergency contact for the property and accessible at all times, and
to make or order repairs or services for the property if in violation of City
or State Codes, if the person is different than the owner.
            (C)   Number of bedrooms.
            (D)   Maximum number of occupants.
            (E)   Signed agreement that the City has permission to access
exterior areas of the property when responding to a reported violation of the
standards in this section in order to ascertain if a violation has occurred.
            (F)   Verification that there are not any unresolved Code
Enforcement or Property Maintenance cases.
            (G)   Affidavit of Residency to verify primary residence:
Applicants for short term rental licenses are required to sign an affidavit of
residency attesting that the home is their primary residence and acknowledging
that subsequent discovery of non-residency shall be ground for revocation of
the license.
            (H)   Listing services where the short term rental is advertised.
            (I)   Such other and further information as the City Council may
require if applicable.
      5.   Initial License: Owners currently operating a short term home rental
within the City shall obtain a license as provided in this Section 3-5A within
45 days from the effective date of this ordinance.
      6.   License Issuance: The City shall issue a short term rental license
if real estate taxes and municipal utility bills for the dwelling unit have
been paid, and the City has no record of unresolved complaints regarding the
property subject to the rental license. The short term rental license must be
in compliance with all standards of this Chapter.
      7.   Renewal Of License: A licensee may continue to rent a dwelling unit
after the expiration date of the rental license provided that the owner has
filed with the city administrator, on or before the expiration date, the
appropriate renewal license application and license fee, and provided that the
City has no record of unresolved complaints regarding the property subject to
the rental license.
      8.   Transfer Of License: A short term rental license shall not be
transferable to another person or to another dwelling unit. Each license shall
automatically terminate upon the sale or other conveyance of the property to an
unlicensed person or entity. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
All short-term rental unit owners and operators must comply with the following:
   A.   Performance Standards:
      1.   The short term rental dwelling unit shall have a maximum of five (5)
bedrooms. Only one (1) bedroom may be larger 280 square feet in size.
      2.   The maximum occupancy within the short term rental dwelling unit
shall be two (2) persons per bedroom in bedrooms less than 280 square feet in
size. For a bedroom that is larger than 280 square feet, the maximum occupancy
may be up to four (4) persons.
      3.   Short term rental reservations must have a minimum two (2) night
stay.
      4.   The maximum number of vehicles that may be parked overnight on the
property shall be consistent with the Property Maintenance Code. Vehicles in
garages shall not be counted towards total number of vehicles.
      5.   The owner of a short-term rental dwelling unit must provide
sufficient waste collection containers and service for the short term rental
dwelling unit in order to meet the demand of the unit’s occupants. The owner
shall be solely responsible for ensuring that waste is properly collected,
stored, and made available for regular collection. Waste may not be stored
outside of approved containers. All waste containers must be stored, screened,
and collected in accordance with Section
12-5-8  of this Code.
      6.   Listings advertising the property’s availability for rent must state
the license number, maximum occupancy permitted by the license, and the maximum
number of vehicles that may be parked overnight on the property.
      7.   Ensure that all short term rental dwelling units have working smoke
detectors and carbon monoxide alarm(s) installed in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes Sections 299F.362 and 299F.51, and in accordance with the Minnesota
Residential Building Code and Minnesota State Fire Code. Additionally, each
unit shall have at least one properly maintained and charged fire extinguisher
located in an easily-accessible location which is clearly marked and which is
made known to the temporary occupants.
      8.   Provide and post the following information in a conspicuous place
within each short-term rental dwelling unit:
         a.   Emergency contact information for the short term rental dwelling
unit owner;
         b.   Emergency contact information for the short term rental dwelling
operator, of applicable;
         c.   The street address of the short term rental dwelling unit;
         d.   A Floor Plan of the short term rental dwelling unit indicating
exits, escape routes, and the location of all fire extinguishers;
         e.   The maximum occupancy limits of the short term rental dwelling
unit; and
         f.   A parking map showing all allowable parking locations serving the
property
      9.   An owner must, as a continuing obligation, maintain a current
register of short term rental guests that includes the following information: a
record of the dates the unit was rented, the number of short term rental guests
during the rental periods, and the amount of rent paid by the short term rental
guests in connection with the rental of the short term rental dwelling unit.
This record shall be kept by the owner for at a minimum of one year. In the
license application or any application for license renewal, the owner must
designate the name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons who
will have possession of the register, and must notify the City Administrator or
designee of any change in the identity(ies), address(es), or telephone number
(s) of such person or persons. The register must be available for inspection by
the City Administrator or designee at all reasonable times and in the case of
an emergency.
      10.   No short term rental dwelling unit may be rented to any person who
is under the age of 25. The person who rents the unit must provide a telephone
number to the owner or operator and must be accessible to the owner or operator
by telephone during the short term rental period.
      11.   If the short term rental dwelling unit includes a swimming pool,
spa, or hot tub, the owner or operator must post a sign near the pool, spa, or
hot tub indicating that it is not licensed or inspected by the State, the
county or the City.
      12.   The short term rental dwelling unit must have a visible house
number that can be easily seen from a public street during the day and at
night.
      13.   Comply with all applicable city, state, and federal laws,
ordinances, and regulations.
      14.   Remit all applicable local, state, and federal taxes, including,
but not limited to applicable lodging tax.
      15.   The city must be provided with accurate and up to date information
regarding the name and contact information for the short term rental dwelling
unit owner and operator, if applicable. If the owner or operator’s contact
information changes, updates must be filed with the city within 30 days of the
date of the change.
   B.   Conduct On Licensed Premises: Disorderly Conduct: It is the
responsibility of the owner to ensure that persons occupying the licensed
premises conduct themselves in such a manner so as not to cause the premises to
be disorderly or constitute a nuisance. The owner or operator of the short-term
rental dwelling unit is responsible to ensure that the property remains in
compliance with the City’s nuisance regulations. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The application for a short term rental license will be reviewed by the City
Administrator or their designee.
   A.   Inspections: The City Administrator or their designee shall conduct
inspections of the short term rental dwelling unit to determine the compliance
with the applicable provisions of this code. An inspection is required prior to
the initial issuance of the license. The City may conduct inspections of the
short term rental dwelling unit upon submittal of a license renewal
application. The code official or designated representative may enter, examine,
and survey at all reasonable times all short term rentals and premises after
obtaining consent from an owner or occupant of the premises.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to be in
conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this Section or other
provisions of this Code.
      2.   The code official shall serve a notice of violation on the licensee.
If the notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall
institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equality to restrain, correct
or abate such violation, or to require the termination of the unlawful
occupancy of the structure in violation of the provisions of this chapter or of
the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      3.   A short term rental license may be revoked or suspended for
violations of this section.
      4.   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the city attorney from instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or
abate a violation, or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building in violation
of this section, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal act, conduct,
business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
      5.   The property owner of record shall be responsible for any city costs
in enforcing the provisions of this chapter including inspection fees, or other
fees, charges or penalties that are imposed as permitted by law.
   C.   License Suspension Or Revocation, Or Refusal To Renew:
      1.   In the event of any potential health or safety violations, the code
official may suspend the license until the violation is corrected.
      2.   If a property with a short term rental receives three notices of
violation within a 365-day period, its short term rental license shall be
revoked. The license may be revoked after a single violation if the violation
is not immediately corrected pursuant to a notice of violation.
      3.   No person who has had a permit revoked under this Section shall be
issued a short term rental license for one year from the date of revocation.
   D.   Appeal: The licensee may appeal the occupancy limit, parking limit,
denial, suspension, or revocation to the City Council. The licensee must file
with the city clerk a notice of appeal within ten days of an issuance, denial,
suspension, or revocation. The Council shall consider the appeal at a regularly
scheduled council meeting on or after 15 days from service of the notice of
appeal upon the City Clerk by the licensee. Hearing on the appeal shall be open
to the public and the licensee shall have the right to appear and be
represented by legal counsel and to offer evidence in behalf of licensure. At
the conclusion of the hearing, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the
Council may order:
      1.   The denial, suspension, or revocation of the license.
      2.   The denial, suspension, or revocation by the code official be lifted
and the license be returned to the licensee.
      3.   Additional terms, conditions and stipulations to be imposed on the
licensee to mitigate problems. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-6: EXEMPTIONS:
This Chapter does not apply to:
   A.   Hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, nursing homes, or state licensed
residential care facilities.
   B.   Individual sleeping rooms within an otherwise owner-occupied residence,
or rentals where the owner is present for the duration of the rental. (Ord.
591, 12-3-2024)
3-5A-7: NO WARRANTY BY CITY:
By adopting and undertaking to enforce this Chapter 3-5A, neither the city, nor
its elected officials, employees, consultants, contractors, or agents warrant
or guaranty the safety, fitness, or suitability of any rental dwelling or
rental dwelling unit in the city. Owners and short term rental guests should
take appropriate steps to protect their interests, possessions, health, safety,
and welfare. (Ord. 591, 12-3-2024)
CHAPTER 6
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: Definitions
3-6-3: License required
3-6-4: License application
3-6-5: License eligibility
3-6-6: Restrictions and regulations
3-6-7: Display of license
3-6-8: Prohibited business or operations
3-6-9: Appeal
3-6-10: Penalty
3-6-11:    Severability
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
The city recognizes therapeutic massage, as distinguished from other forms of
massage, as a scientific health care and/or maintenance technique or procedure
for the human muscles, tendons, tissues, and the like. The city also recognizes
the potential for illicit massage operations or establishments in the wake of
legitimate, professional therapeutic massage establishments. Accordingly, in
order to prevent illicit massage operations and protect against the existence
of illicit massage establishments or operations in the city and to protect the
public's health, safety, and welfare, including the protection of the city's
legitimate massage therapists' profession and reputation, the city deems it
necessary to regulate therapeutic massage establishments and massage therapists
through the licensing process. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
stated:
 
                      An educational institution holding approved status with
APPROVED INSTITUTION: the United States Department of Education, Minnesota
                      Office of Higher Education, or by any state licensing
                      board.
 
                            A professional massage program or educational
                            institution approved by the Commission on Massage
APPROVED PROGRAM:           Therapy Accreditation (COMTA) or the National
                            Accrediting Commission of Career Arts and Sciences
                            (NACCAS).
                            A post graduate continuing education class,
                            provided it is an approved class with the National
CONTINUING EDUCATION CLASS: Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and
                            Bodywork or another nationally recognized
                            certification licensing organization.
                            A person who practices or provides therapeutic
                            massage to another for a fee or other consideration
                            paid either directly or indirectly. A person
                            licensed as a medical doctor, chiropractor,
                            osteopath, licensed nurse, physical therapist, or
MASSAGE THERAPIST:          athletic director or trainer shall not be deemed as
                            a massage therapist. Likewise, a podiatrist,
                            beautician (cosmetologist) or barber who confines
                            his/her treatment to the scalp, face, and neck or
                            the lower leg and feet in the case of a pedicure
                            shall not be deemed as a massage therapist.
                            Any enterprise, establishment, or operation,
                            whether under control of an individual or legal
MASSAGE THERAPY BUSINESS:   entity, providing or offering to provide massage
                            therapy services within the city for a fee or other
                            consideration paid either directly or indirectly,
                            that:
                            A. Has one or more massage therapists, employed or
                           contracted to provide massage therapy services for
                            the massage therapy business; or
                            B. Is located in a fixed location in a
                            nonresidential district within the city wherein
                            massage therapy services are provided. Any health
                            or medical facility, office, or clinic operated by
                           state licensed medical professional(s) or any
                            health or medical-related business operated by
                            state licensed medical professional(s) which
                            provides therapeutic massage to its patients shall
                            not be deemed as a massage therapy business.
 
                                        The rubbing, tapping, pounding or
                                        kneading of a person's skin, muscles,
                                        and tissues or the stretching of body
                                        limbs (e.g. Thai massage) for the
MASSAGE THERAPY OR THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE: purpose of easing mental and physical
                                        tension, the breaking up of fatty
                                        tissues, relaxing muscles, or
                                        alleviating muscle spasms, and the
                                        improvement of circulation through the
                                        body.
                                        A person who is enrolled in and attends
                                        an approved institution or approved
STUDENT OF MASSAGE THERAPY:             program as defined herein, or is
                                        attending a continuing education class.
                                        (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
 
3-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Massage Therapist License Required: Except as provided for by Minnesota
Statutes, Section 471.709, as amended, it is unlawful for any person to
practice therapeutic massage therapy or provide or offer to provide therapeutic
massage therapy within the city without a license therefore issued by the city.
   B.   Massage Therapy Business License Required: It is unlawful for any
person or entity to operate a massage therapy business within the city without
a license therefore issued by the city.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to, and no massage therapy business
license shall be required for a student of massage therapy, completing course
work at an approved institution or an approved program of study, provided:
            a.   The massage therapy is provided during and as part of a course
or clinical component of the approved institution's or program's course work,
or during a continuing education class; and
            b.   The student of massage therapy is supervised by an instructor,
certified by the approved institution, program, or sponsor of the continuing
education class, while the student is providing or performing massage therapy.
A notice, which advises the public that the person who may provide massage
therapy services is a student of massage therapy and is not licensed by the
city, shall be posted in a conspicuous location in the room in which the
massage therapy is provided.
   D.   License Period And Renewal: A license issued under this chapter shall
be an annual license, expiring on June 30 of each year. Any massage therapy
business and/or therapist doing business within the city as of the effective
date of this chapter, shall file all required license applications hereunder,
along with the license and investigation fees, no later than May 1 of each
year. A license may be annually renewed, provided the licensee complies with
the renewal application process as follows:
      1.   The licensee shall complete the renewal application materials
provided by the city;
      2.   The completed renewal application materials, along with the license
fee, shall be filed with city clerk no later than May 1 of the renewal year;
and
      3.   The massage therapy business license renewal application shall
provide all information regarding ownership interests in the business.
   E.   License And Investigation Fees: The license and investigation fees
shall be determined by the city council as set forth in the fee schedule.
      1.   All licenses shall expire on the last day of June in each year. Each
license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion of
the license year has elapsed when a new application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
      2.   In the case of a massage therapy business that is wholly owned and
operated by a massage therapist licensed under this chapter and does not have
any employee(s) or contracted person(s) other than the massage therapist
licensed owner providing massage therapy services for or through the massage
therapy business, only the massage therapist license fees shall be required.
      3.   If it is found at any time during the term of the license period
that the massage therapy business is not wholly owned and operated by the
massage therapist licensed under this chapter or it has an employee(s) or
contracted person(s) other than the massage therapist licensed owner providing
massage therapy services for or through the massage therapy business, then the
massage therapy business license fees shall be required to be paid on a
prorated basis for the remaining term of the massage therapy business license,
in addition to any licensing fees required for the employee(s) or contracted
person(s). (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Massage Therapy Business License Application. An original application
for a license to operate a massage therapy business shall be filed, along with
all required fees, with the city clerk. The investigation fee is applied to the
city's costs of the background investigation of the massage therapy business
and all persons or entities that individually have at least a five percent (5%)
financial interest in the massage therapy business. The property containing the
massage therapy business must be in compliance with all federal, state and
local applicable laws and ordinances. The police department shall conduct the
background investigation before consideration of the license by the city
council. The application shall provide:
      1.   All applicants (business or individual):
         a.   Whether the applicant/owner is an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization;
         b.   Full name, address, date and place of birth, and telephone number
of the applicant, all owners and operators, including the designated on-site
manager or agent of the applicant;
         c.   The address of the premises where the massage therapy business is
to be located if proposed to have a fixed location in which the services are
provided and if the applicant does not own the premises, a copy of the lease
agreement to occupy the premises;
         d.   Statement of whether all taxes and special assessments due and
owing on the premises on which the applicant proposes to operate the massage
therapy business are current, and if taxes are delinquent, the years for which
the taxes on the premises are delinquent (this information is required by the
applicant only if the applicant or other entity in which the applicant has an
interest has the legal duty to pay said property taxes or assessments due and
owing, through an ownership interest or lease provision);
         e.   The name of the business if the business is to be operated under
a name or designation other than the name of the applicant. This designation
shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the certificate required by Minn.
Stats. §§ 333.01 and 333.02;
         f.   Proof of general and professional liability insurance coverage in
effect as required in this chapter;
         g.   The applicant shall produce at the time of filing an application
the applicant's proof of identification, which may be established only by one
of the following:
            (1)   A valid driver's license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state, or a province of Canada, and including the photograph
and date of birth of the applicant;
            (2)   A valid military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense;
            (3)   A valid passport issued by the United States; or
            (4)   In the case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
         For purposes of proof of identification, the "applicant" shall mean
the on-site manager or agent for a massage therapy business filing application
and the natural person signing the application for a massage therapy business
license;
         h.   The application shall identify the full name, address, date and
place of birth, and telephone number of the natural person, designated by the
applicant as the massage therapy business's on-site manager or agent, along
with the notarized written consent of such a person to:
            (1)   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed
premises operation; and
             (2)   Serve as agent for service of notices and other processes
relating to the licenses;
         I.   With respect to the owner, operator, or any person who has a five
percent (5%) financial interest in the proposed licensed massage therapy
business and the appointed on-site manager or agent of the applicant,
information as to any and all criminal convictions of any state, county, or
local law or regulation;
         j.   Proof of Workers' Compensation Insurance as required by Minnesota
law; and
      2.   Individuals:
         a.   The full name, address, date and place of birth, and telephone
number of the applicant;
         b.   Whether the applicant and on-site manager or agent have ever used
or have been known by a name other than his or her name on the application, and
if so, the name or names used and information concerning dates and places were
used;
         c.   Whether the applicant is a United States citizen or is legally
permitted to be in the United States and providing proof thereof;
         d.   The street addresses and cities at which the applicant and on-
site manager or agent have lived during the preceding ten years;
         e.   Names, addresses, and dates of the applicant's and on-site
manager's or agent's employers for the preceding ten years;
         f.   Whether the applicant and on-site manager or agent have ever been
engaged in the operation and/or provision of massage services. If so, they
shall furnish information as to the name, place, and length of time of the
involvement in such an establishment; and
      3.   Partnerships:
         a.   The full name(s), address(es), date(s) and place(s) of birth,
financial interests of all general partners and all of the information
concerning each general partner that is required of individual applicants in
provision (2) of this section;
         b.   The full names(s), address(es), date(s) and place(s) of birth,
and telephone number(s) of the manager partner(s) and the interests of each
managing partner in the massage therapy business;
         c.   A copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with the
application. The license shall be issued in the name of the partnership; and
      4.   Corporations And Other Organizations:
         a.   The name of the corporation or business firm, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         b.   A copy of the certificate of incorporation shall be attached to
the application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by Minn. Stat. § 303.06, shall be attached;
         c.   The name of the manager(s), proprietor(s) or other agent(s) in
charge of the business and all of the information concerning each manager,
proprietor, or agent that is required of applicants in provision (2) of this
section;
         d.   A list of all persons who own or have a five percent (5%) or more
interest in the corporation or organization or who are officers of said
corporation or organization, together with their addresses and all the
information regarding such persons as is required in paragraph (2) of this
section.
   B.   Massage Therapist License Application. An original application for a
massage therapist license shall be filed, along with all required fees, with
the city clerk. The police department shall conduct a background investigation
before consideration by the city council. The application for a license under
this subsection shall be made on a form supplied by the city clerk and shall
request the following information:
      1.   The applicant's full name, address, date and place of birth,
telephone number, weight, height, eye color;
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant's current
employer, if applicable;
      3.   The applicant's employers for the previous ten years, including each
employer's name and address and dates of employment;
      4.   The applicant's addresses for the previous ten (10) years;
      5.   Whether the applicant is a United States citizen or is legally
permitted to be in the United States and providing proof thereof;
      6.   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than his or her name, and if so, the name or names used and information
concerning dates and the county and state where used;
      7.   Proof of general and professional liability insurance coverage in
effect as required in this chapter (proof of insurance coverage may not be
available to the applicant at time of application, but proof of insurance
coverage shall be submitted to the city clerk before a license is issued). The
requirement to provide general liability insurance coverage shall not apply to
a massage therapist who is an employee of a massage therapy business and
covered by the massage therapy business general liability insurance policy;
      8.   The applicant shall produce at the time of filing an application the
applicant's proof of identification, which may be established only by one of
the following:
         a.   A valid driver's license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state, or a province of Canada, and including the photograph
and date of birth of the applicant;
         b.   A valid military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense;
         c.   A valid passport issued by the United States; or
         d.   In the case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
      9.   Information as to any and all criminal conviction(s) of any state,
county, or local law or regulation;
      10.   One of the following:
         a.   Proof of successful completion of a minimum of five hundred (500)
hours of therapeutic massage training/course work that includes subjects of
anatomy, physiology, hygiene, ethics, massage theory and research, and massage
practice from an approved institution or program; or
         b.   A diploma or certificate of graduation from a comprehensive
massage therapy program consisting of the course work stated above in subclause
a. issued to the applicant from an approved institution or an approved program;
or
         c.   Proof of passing the National Certification Exam offered by the
National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork or proof of
passing the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards (FSMTB) Massage and
Bodywork Licensing Examination (MBLEx). (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-5: LICENSE ELIGIBILITY:
    A.   A massage therapy business shall not be issued a massage therapy
business license or any license previously issued may be revoked upon the
following grounds:
      1.   The proposed fixed location or premises in which the massage therapy
business proposes to provide massage therapy services is not located in a
permitted zoning district for therapeutic massage services and has not received
required permits under the City Code;
      2.   The owner, operator, or any person who has at least a five percent
(5%) financial interest in the proposed licensed massage therapy business or
the appointed on-site manager or agent of the applicant has a conviction for,
or was charged with, but convicted of a lesser charge of a crime, or is under a
stay of adjudication from, a charge involving a violation of any massage
therapy-related regulation in any other jurisdiction, any prostitution-related
offense, criminal sexual conduct, indecent exposure, surreptitious intrusion,
disorderly house as defined by Minnesota Statutes, theft, felony drug offense,
any crime of violence as defined by Minnesota Statutes, or any other similar
crime or offense within five (5) years of the date of application;
      3.   The owner, operator, or any person who has at least a five percent
(5%) financial interest in the proposed licensed massage therapy business had a
massage therapist- or massage therapy business-related license in another
jurisdiction that was suspended or revoked within ten years preceding the date
of application.
      4.   The application failed to identify the full name, address, and date
and place of birth of the natural person designated by the applicant as the
massage therapy business's on-site manager or agent, along with the notarized
written consent of such a person to:
         a.   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed premises
and operation; and
         b.   Serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating
to the license;
      5.   The on-site manager or agent designated by the applicant is not a
United States citizen or is not legally permitted to be in the United States;
      6.   The applicant provided false, misleading or misrepresented
information in the application;
      7.   The massage therapy business is proposed to be operated on premises
on which property taxes, assessments, or other financial claims by the state,
county or city are due, delinquent, and unpaid (but not including delinquent
taxes, assessments or other financial claims that are being appealed through
the customary means by the applicant), provided the applicant or other entity
in which the applicant has an interest has the legal duty to pay said taxes,
assessments, or claims due and owing;
      8.   The applicant, if not covered by a massage therapy business
insurance policy, does not have general or professional liability insurance
coverage in effect as required in this chapter;
      9.   The applicant has been denied a license under this chapter within
the preceding twelve (12) months; or
      10.   The applicant has employed or allowed massage therapists not
licensed by the city to provide massage therapy at the business site licensed
within the past twelve (12) months.
   B.   A massage therapist shall not be issued a massage therapist license or
any license previously issued may be revoked upon the following grounds:
      1.   The applicant has a conviction for or was charged with, but
convicted of a lesser charge or is under a stay of adjudication relating to, a
crime involving a violation of any massage therapy-related regulation in any
other jurisdiction, any prostitution-related offense, criminal sexual conduct,
indecent exposure, surreptitious intrusion, disorderly house as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, theft, felony drug offense, any crime of violence as
defined by Minnesota Statutes, or any other similar crime or offense within
five years of the date of application;
      2.   The applicant had a massage therapist or massage therapy business-
related license in another jurisdiction that was suspended or revoked within
ten (10) years preceding the date of application;
      3.   The applicant is not eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      4.   The applicant is not a United States citizen and is not legally
permitted to be in the United States;
      5.   The applicant has not earned or did not provide:
         a.   Proof of successful completion of a minimum of five hundred (500)
hours of therapeutic massage training/course work that includes the subjects of
anatomy, physiology, hygiene, ethics, massage theory and research, and massage
practice from an approved institution or approved program; or
         b.   Proof of a diploma or certificate of graduation in a
comprehensive massage therapy program consisting of the course work stated
above in subclause a. issued to the applicant from an approved institution or
an approved program for massage therapy; or
         c.   Proof of passing the National Certification Exam offered by the
National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork or proof of
passing the Federation of State Massage Therapy Boards (FSMTB) Massage and
Bodywork Licensing Examination (MBLEx);
      6.   The applicant provided false, misleading or misrepresented
information on the application;
      7.   The applicant does not have general and professional liability
insurance coverage in effect as required in this chapter for applicants not
covered by a massage therapy business insurance policy; or
      8.   The applicant has been denied a license under this chapter within
the preceding twelve (12) months. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-6: RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Massage therapy business licenses granted for massage therapy services
or operation at a fixed location or premises do not permit the business to
provide massage therapy services at any location other than the premises
identified on the license, except a licensed massage therapist employed or
contracted by the massage therapy business licensee may provide massage therapy
services:
       1.   To a client at the client's residence or place of care if in a
long- or short-term care facility, such as a hospital, nursing home, or
convalescence facility; or
      2.   In connection with a special event or function whereby the massage
therapist provides massage therapy services to attendees of the event or
function.
   B.   The act of any employee of a message therapy business licensee is
deemed to be the act of the licensee. The licensee shall be responsible for all
acts and conduct attributable to and in connection with massage therapy
services provided by employees of the licensee or occurring on the premises of
the massage therapy business.
   C.   The person who is receiving a massage shall at all times have his/her
anus, intergluteal cleft (buttocks crease), and genitals covered with clothing
or properly draped with non-transparent material. The person who is receiving
massage therapy of the breast or buttocks (gluteal) shall have the breast or
buttock (gluteal muscle) that is not then immediately receiving massage therapy
properly covered and draped with non-transparent material.
   D.   The licensee and all employees of the licensee shall at all times be
fully clothed and shall not expose his/her breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
   E.   At no time shall the massage therapist touch or offer to touch or
massage the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva, or vaginal area of any
customer or person inquiring of or receiving massage therapy services.
   F.   No beer, liquor, narcotic drug, or controlled substances, as such terms
are defined by state statutes or the City Code, shall be used or ingested or be
present during any massage therapy session.
   G.   No doors or massage rooms, when occupied by one or more persons, shall
be locked. All locks, if any, shall be keyed only from the exterior of the
massage rooms.
   H.   Only massage therapists who are licensed by the city shall practice or
provide therapeutic massage services for licensed massage therapy businesses or
within the licensed massage therapy business premises as identified in its
license.
   I.   The licensee shall comply with any and all provisions of this chapter,
all provisions of the City Code, and any state law or regulation.
   J.   The licensee shall not provide any massage therapy services and the
identified premises for a licensed massage therapy business shall not be open
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
   K.   The licensed premises under a licensed massage therapy business, if
any, shall, during all operating hours, be open to inspection by any public
health, building, zoning, code or police officer to determine whether this
chapter and all other laws are being observed. All persons, as a condition to
being issued such license, consent to such inspection by such officers. It is
unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of a licensee to hinder or
prevent a city inspecting officer from making such inspection. The licensed
premises must carry adequate property liability insurance coverage.
   L.   If a licensed massage therapy business's on-site manager or agent
ceases to be located at the licensed premises or ceases to act in such capacity
for the licensee without appointment of a successor, the license issued
pursuant to such appointment shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   M.   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred or assigned.
Massage therapy business licenses shall terminate upon any change in officers
or ownership interests of the licensee, unless the change is approved by the
city council, in which case the license shall only continue in force until the
end of the regular license term.
   N.   The licensee shall have in effect during the license period general
liability and professional liability insurance providing minimum coverage of
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) combined single limit per
occurrence. The requirement for general and professional liability insurance
coverage shall not apply to a licensed massage therapist who is an employee of
and covered under a massage therapy business general and professional liability
insurance policy provided proof of such coverage is provided to the city. The
licensee shall provide to the city a certificate of insurance evidencing the
insurance coverage as required herein.
   O.   The licensee shall comply with all federal, state and local laws and
ordinances of health and sanitation.
   P.   Violation of any law or regulation relating to the license issued under
this chapter, or any building, safety or health regulation, shall subject the
license to revocation or suspension.
   Q.   As of July 1, 2020, all massage businesses and therapists currently
licensed in the City must comply with all provisions of this chapter when they
renew their license. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
The license of the massage therapy business and of every massage therapist
employed thereby, shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place on the
premises and shown to law enforcement officers upon request. (Ord. 544, 10-2-
2019)
3-6-8: PROHIBITED BUSINESS OR OPERATIONS:
No massage therapy business shall be used or operated as or in conjunction with
an adult use business as defined in this Code. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-9: APPEAL:
   A.   Notice Of Action: If the city council denies the issuance of a license,
or suspends or revokes a license, the administrator or designee shall send to
the applicant, or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested,
written notice of the action. The written notice shall also provide notice of
the applicant or licensee's right to an appeal of the denial, suspension or
revocation to a third-party hearing officer. The written notice of appeal must
be filed with the city within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice of action.
   B.   Hearing: The hearing officer shall hold a hearing to consider the
appeal within fourteen (14) days after the appeal request is received. The
hearing officer shall make written findings of fact and a disposition on the
matter. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the licensee or
applicant shall have the right to appear and be represented by legal counsel
and to offer evidence on its behalf.
   C.   Suspension: The City Administrator or a designee may immediately
suspend a license issued under this chapter for up to twenty (20) days upon the
occurrence of any unlawful acts as identified in this chapter. Any adverse
license action resulting from a suspension shall be processed, and is subject
to appeal, as provided in this section. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-10: PENALTY:
Violation of a provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, a person may be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or such other amount set by law, or imprisonment for a
term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or such other term set by law, or both.
Each act of violation and each day on which a violation occurs or continues is
a separate violation. (Ord. 544, 10-2-2019)
3-6-11: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any part of this
chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this chapter not specifically included within the judgment. (Ord. 544, 10-2-
2019)
CHAPTER 7
CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Requirements
3-7-2: Maintenance Of Data
3-7-3: Verification Of Application
3-7-1: REQUIREMENTS:
The City of Mendota Heights Police Department (MHPD) is hereby required, as the
exclusive entity within the City, to conduct a criminal history background
investigation on any applicant seeking a license or permit for the following
City of Mendota Heights ordinances, as required within:
Liquor licenses (section
3-1-8 of this title)
Massage therapy licenses (chapter 6 of this title)
Peddlers licenses (section
3-3-7 of this title)
Transient Merchants licenses (section
3-3-7 of this title) (Ord. 487, 10-6-2015; amd. Ord. 569, 7-6-2021)
3-7-2: MAINTENANCE OF DATA:
Upon conducting the criminal history background investigation in order to
screen license or permit applicants, MHPD is authorized to access data
maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension Computerized
Criminal History (CCH) Information System in accordance with BCA policy. Any
data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the MHPD under the
care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or the designee. A
summary of the results of the CCH data may be released by MHPD to the licensing
authority, the City Council or other City staff involved in the licensing
process. (Ord. 437, 5-17-2011)
3-7-3: VERIFICATION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications for licenses or permits under this title shall be
submitted to the City Clerk. The City Clerk and Chief of Police are empowered
to conduct any and all investigations to verify the information on the
application, including ordering a computerized criminal history inquiry and/or
a driver's license history inquiry on the applicant.
   B.   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The
written consent must fully comply with the provisions of Minnesota State
Statutes, chapter 13, regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the
information.
   C.   The City Clerk and/or the Chief of Police shall make a written
recommendation and report, which shall include a list of all violations of
Federal, State, or local laws, to the City Council.
   D.   Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota State Statutes, section
364.09, the City will not reject an applicant for a license or permit on the
basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is directly related
to the license or permit sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the City rejects the
applicant's request on this basis, the City shall notify the applicant in
writing of the following:
      1.   The reason(s) for denial.
      2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota Statutes, section 364.06.
      3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
      4.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication. (Ord. 437, 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Purpose And Scope
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Administration
3-8-4: Registration Of A Cannabis Or Lower-Potency Hemp Retail Business
3-8-5: Requirements For A Cannabis Business
3-8-6: Temporary Cannabis Events
3-8-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 342, which authorizes the City of Mendota Heights to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare of Mendota Heights residents by
regulating cannabis and lower-potency hemp retail businesses within the legal
boundaries of Mendota Heights. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in Minn.
Stat. 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to Minn. Stat. ch. 342 , shall
have the same meanings in this chapter.
CANNABIS BUSINESS: A business licensed by the Office of Cannabis Management
(OCM) as defined by Minn. Stat 342.01 Subd. 14.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION or CULTIVATE CANNABIS: Growing cannabis plants from seed
or immature plant to mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant,
package and label immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to
other cannabis businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer
located on the same premises, and perform other actions approved by the OCM.
CANNABIS CULTIVATOR: A cannabis business licensed to cultivate cannabis and
packages cannabis for sale to another cannabis business.
CANNABIS EVENT: A temporary cannabis event lasting no more than four days
operating pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.39.
CANNABIS MANUFACTURER: A cannabis business that makes cannabis and/or hemp
concentrate, manufactures artificially derived cannabinoids, adult-use cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, and/or hemp-derived consumer products,
and sells cannabis concentrate, hemp concentrate, artificially derived
cannabinoids, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived
consumer products to other cannabis businesses pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.31.
CANNABIS MEZZOBUSINESS: A cannabis business that grows cannabis plants from
seed or immature plant to mature plant, harvests the cannabis flower from a
mature plant, makes cannabis and/or hemp concentrate, manufactures artificially
derived cannabinoids, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles,
and/or hemp-derived consumer products, and sells immature cannabis plants and
seedlings, adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, and other products
authorized by law to other cannabis businesses and to consumers pursuant to
Minn. Stat. 342.29.
CANNABIS MICROBUSINESS: A cannabis business that grows cannabis plants from
seed or immature plant to mature plant, harvests the cannabis flower from a
mature plant, makes cannabis and/or hemp concentrate, manufactures artificially
derived cannabinoids, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles,
and/or hemp-derived consumer products, and sells immature cannabis plants and
seedlings, adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, and other products
authorized by law to other cannabis businesses and to consumers, including on-
site consumption, pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.28.
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES: A retail location and the retail location(s) of a
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
CANNABIS RETAILER: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and not for the
purpose of resale in any form.
CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY: A cannabis business that obtains and tests immature
cannabis plants and seedlings, cannabis flower, cannabis products, hemp plant
parts, hemp concentrate, artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp
edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products from cannabis microbusinesses,
cannabis mezzobusinesses, cannabis cultivators, cannabis manufacturers,
cannabis wholesalers, lower-potency hemp edible manufacturers, and industrial
hemp growers pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.37.
CANNABIS WHOLESALER: A cannabis business that sells immature cannabis plants
and seedlings, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles,
and hemp-derived consumer products to cannabis microbusinesses, cannabis
mezzobusinesses, cannabis manufacturers, and cannabis retailers pursuant to
Minn. Stat. 342.33.
DAYCARE: A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child’s own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE MANUFACTURER: A business that manufactures and
packages lower-potency hemp edibles for consumer sale, and/or sells hemp
concentrate and lower-potency hemp edibles to other cannabis businesses and
hemp businesses.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER: A business that sells lower-potency hemp
edibles to customers.
OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT: Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as “OCM” in this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: As defined under Minn. Stat. 245.462 subd. 23.
RETAIL REGISTRATION: An approved registration issued by the City of Mendota
Heights to a state licensed cannabis or lower-potency hemp retail business.
SCHOOL: A public school as defined under Minn. Stat. 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under Minn. Stat. 120A.24.
STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
3-8-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The City Administrator or their designee is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this
chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the
City from enforcing any other applicable remedy including but not limited to
injunctive relief. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
3-8-4: REGISTRATION OF A CANNABIS OR LOWER-POTENCY HEMP RETAIL BUSINESS:
   A.   Requirement to register a Cannabis or Lower-Potency Hemp Retail
Business.
      1.   No individual or entity may operate a cannabis or lower-potency hemp
retail business within Mendota Heights without first registering with the City
of Mendota Heights.
      2.   Any cannabis or lower-potency hemp retail business that sells to a
customer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty of $2,000 for each violation.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the state shall not issue
a license to any cannabis business to operate in Indian country, as defined in
United States Code, title 18, section 1151, of a Minnesota Tribal government
without the consent of the Tribal government.
   B.   Compliance Checks Prior to Retail Registration.
      1.   Prior to issuance of a retail registration, Mendota Heights shall
conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local
ordinances.
      2.   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a
state license application from OCM, the City of Mendota Heights shall certify
on a form provided by OCM whether a proposed retail location complies with
zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business complies
with the state fire code and building code.
   C.   Registration and Application Procedure.
      1.   Fees.
         a.   The City of Mendota Heights shall not charge an application fee.
         b.   A registration fee, as established in the City of Mendota
Height’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of
retail business license applied for.
         c.   An initial registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half the
amount of an initial state license fee under Minn. Stat. 342.11, whichever is
less. The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail
registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
         d.   Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the City shall be
charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         e.   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or half
the amount of a renewal state license fee under Minn. Stat. 342.11, whichever
is less.
         f.   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
      2.   Application Submittal. The City shall issue a retail registration to
a state-licensed retail business that adheres to the requirements of Minn.
Stat. 342.22.
         a.   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            (1)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            (2)   Mailing address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
            (3)   Name of the cannabis or lower-potency hemp retail business to
be registered;
            (4)   The address, legal description and parcel ID for the property
which the retail registration is sought;
            (5)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true
and complete copy of the executed lease for the premises, if applicable.
            (6)   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.13.
            (7)   Signature of the applicant or the authorized agency of the
legal entity applicant;
            (8)   If the registrant is a legal entity, the following
information shall be provided for the person designated as the general or
primary manager on site: the full name, date of birth, mailing address, contact
telephone number, email address;
            (9)   Any additional information the City deems necessary.
         b.   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (1)   The registration fee as required in [Section
3-8-4  C.1.];
            (2)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval;
         c.   Once an application is considered complete, the City
Administrator or their designee shall inform the applicant as such, process the
application fees, and forward the application to the City Clerk for approval or
denial.
         d.   The registration fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
      3.   Application Approval.
         a.   Registration of a cannabis or lower-potency edible hemp retail
business will be in effect and only so long as the following requirements are
met:
            (1)   The applicant holds a valid license of license preapproval
issued to the retail business by the Office of Cannabis Management;
            (2)   The applicant paid the total sum of the initial registration
fee and first year renewal fee in the amounts required by the city’s fee
schedule;
            (3)   During a preliminary compliance check, the retail business is
found to be in compliance with the zoning and performance standards for
cannabis or hemp businesses established in Chapter 11 of this Code; and
            (4)   The retail business is current on all property taxes and
assessments for the property on which the business is located;
         b.   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under Section
3-8-4 (F)1 of this chapter.
         c.   Applications for registration will be processed on a first-come,
first-served basis on the City receiving a complete application and payment of
all fees. Applications will be considered complete when all materials and
information required herein are received by the City.
         d.   A retail registration application shall not be approved or
renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this chapter.
         e.   A retail registration application that meets the requirements of
this chapter shall be approved.
      4.   Annual Compliance Checks.
         a.   The City shall complete at minimum one compliance check for each
registered business per calendar year to assess if the business meets age
verification requirements, as required under [Minn. Stat. 342.22 Subd. 4(b) and
Minn. Stat. 342.24] and this chapter.
         b.   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least
17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of
a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a
law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
         c.   Any failures under this section must be reported to the Office of
Cannabis Management.
      5.   Location Change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under Section
3-8-4  C. if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal
boundaries of the City of Mendota Heights.
   D.   Renewal of Registration.
      1.   Renewal Process.
         a.   The City shall renew an annual registration of a state-licensed
retail business at the same time OCM renews the retail business’ license.
         b.   A registered business shall apply to renew registration on a form
established by the City.
         c.   A retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
      2.   Renewal Fees.
         a.   The City may charge a renewal fee for the registration starting
at the second renewal, as established in its fee schedule.
      3.   Renewal Application.
         a.   The application for renewal of a retail registration shall
include, but is not limited to:
            (1)   Items required under Section
3-8-4 (C)2 of this chapter.
   E.   Suspension of Registration.
      1.   When Suspension is Warranted.
         a.   The City of Mendota Heights may suspend a registration if it
violates this chapter or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public. The City shall immediately notify the business in writing the
grounds for the suspension.
      2.   Notification to OCM.
         a.   The City shall immediately notify the OCM in writing the grounds
for the suspension. OCM will provide the City and business a response to the
complaint within seven calendar days and perform any necessary inspections
within 30 calendar days.
      3.   Length of Suspension.
         a.   The suspension of a retail registration may be for up to 30
calendar days, unless OCM suspends the license for a longer period. The
business may not make sales to customers if their registration is suspended.
      4.   Civil Penalties.
         a.   Subject to Minn. Stat. 342.22, subd. 5(e) the City may impose a
civil penalty, as specified in the City of Mendota Heights’s Fee Schedule, for
registration violations, not to exceed $2,000.
   F.   Registration Mistakenly Issued or Renewed. If a registration is
mistakenly issued or renewed to any person or entity, for any reason, including
but not limited to the submission of false or misleading information by the
license holder or applicant, the registration will be suspended upon the
discovery of ineligibility for registration under this chapter or state or
other local law, ordinance or other regulation. Any suspension will comply with
the requirements of Minn. Stat. § 342.22, Subd. 5.
   G.   License Holder Responsibility. Every retail registration holder is
responsible for conduct on the registered premises and any sale of cannabis,
hemp, or products containing cannabis or hemp by an employee is the act of the
Registration Holder for the purposes of all provisions of this chapter.
   H.   Limiting of Registrations.
      1.   The City shall limit the number of cannabis retail businesses to no
fewer than one registration for every 12,500 residents within the City of
Mendota Heights.
      2.   If Dakota County has one active cannabis retail registration for
every 12,500 residents then the City shall not be required to register
additional businesses. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
3-8-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR A CANNABIS BUSINESS:
   A.   Minimum Buffer Requirements.
      1.   No cannabis business shall be located or operated within 500 feet of
an existing lawful cannabis business.
      2.   No cannabis business shall be located or operated within 500 feet of
an existing daycare, residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a
public park that is regularly used by minors, including a playground or
athletic field.
      3.   No cannabis business shall be located or operated within 1000 feet
of a school.
      4.   Pursuant to Minn. Stat. 462.357 subd. 1e, nothing in Section
3-8-5 (A) shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a cannabis business
seeking registration from continuing operation at the same site if a daycare,
residential treatment facility, attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, or school moves within the minimum buffer zone.
   B.   Zoning and Land Use.
      1.   A cannabis or lower-potency hemp business licensed or endorsed by
the OCM must be in compliance with the City’s Zoning Code including Title 12:
Zoning, Chapter 3: Allowed Uses, Table 12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses.
   C.   Hours of Operation.
      1.   Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of cannabis, cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Monday-Saturday; and
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
3-8-6: TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS:
   A.   License or Permit Required for Temporary Cannabis Events.
      1.   License Required: A license or permit is required to be issued and
approved by the City prior to holding a Temporary Cannabis Event.
      2.   Registration and Application Procedure: A registration fee, as
established in the City’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for
Temporary Cannabis Events.
      3.   Application Submittal and Review: The City shall require an
application for Temporary Cannabis Events.
         a.   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            (1)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            (2)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
         b.   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (1)   The application fee as required in Section
3-8-6 (A)2;
            (2)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.39 subd. 2.
         c.   The application shall be submitted to the City Administrator or
their designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted
application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant
with the notice of deficiencies.
         d.   Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the (insert staff/department, or elected body that will approve
or deny the request) for approval or denial.
         e.   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
         f.   The application for a license for a Temporary Cannabis Event
shall meet the following standards:
            (1)   Outdoor consumption or use of cannabis at or on the property
of a temporary cannabis event is prohibited.
            (2)   The setback from any property line of any residential use or
residential zoned property shall be no less than 350 feet.
            (3)   All buffers identified in Sec.
3-8-5  also apply to Temporary Cannabis Events.
            (4)   The event may last no longer than four (4) days (96 hours).
            (5)   The event shall operate in accordance with all applicable
requirements for temporary cannabis events under Minn. Stat., Chapter 342.
         g.   A request for a Temporary Cannabis Event that meets the
requirements of this Section shall be approved.
         h.   A request for a Temporary Cannabis Event that does not meet the
requirements of this Section shall be denied. The City shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial. (Ord. 597, 3-4-2025)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisance Defined
4-1-2: Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-1-4: Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-5: Abatement Procedures
4-1-6: Violation; Penalties
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
A "nuisance" is a thing, act, occupation or use of property which:
   A.   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public.
   B.   Shall offend public decency.
   C.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, obstruct, or tend to obstruct or
render dangerous for passage any public park, square, street, walk, lane, alley
or highway.
   D.   Shall in any way render the public insecure in life or in use of
property. (1981 Code 901 § 1)
4-1-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   A.   Tainted Food: All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the
public.
   B.   Diseased Animals: All diseased animals running at large.
   C.   Animal Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within
twenty four (24) hours after death.
   D.   Offensive Garbage Receptacles: Garbage receptacles which emit foul or
disagreeable odors, can be overturned by dogs, are not rodent free or flytight
or are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard.
   E.   Noxious Vegetation: All noxious weeds and other rank growth upon public
or private property 1 .
   F.   Air Pollution: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities.
   G.   Additional Provisions: All other acts, omissions of acts, occupations
and uses of property which are deemed by the county public health department to
be a menace to the health of the inhabitants of this city, or any considerable
number thereof. (1981 Code 901 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
4-1-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
   A.   Gambling:
      1.   All gambling devices, slot machines and punchboards.
      2.   Betting, bookmaking, unlicensed prize fighting, and all apparatus
used in such occupations.
   B.   Disorderly Houses: All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or
promiscuous sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy
houses.
   C.   Vehicles Used For Illegal, Immoral Purposes: Any vehicle used for the
illegal transportation of intoxicating liquor 1  or for promiscuous sexual
intercourse, or any other immoral purpose.
   D.   Obscene Publications: All indecent or obscene pictures, books,
pamphlets, magazines and newspapers.
   E.   Obscene Language; Disturbing The Peace: The public use of profane or
obscene language; the use of loud, boisterous or abusive language in public or
which disturbs the public; or any other act or acts tending to disturbance of
the public peace and quiet. (1981 Code 901 § 3)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-1-4 of this code.
4-1-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
   A.   Snow And Ice Accumulations And Deposits:
      1.   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks twenty four (24)
hours after the snow and ice has ceased to be deposited thereon 1 . (1981 Code
901 § 4)
      2.   Depositing onto public rights of way any snow removed from private
properties 2 . (Ord. 204, 11-15-1983)
   B.   Water, Ice And Snow Draining Onto Public Ways: The allowing of
rainwater, ice or snow to fall from any building or structure upon any street
or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk; or wastewater cast upon or
permitted to flow upon or across streets or other public property.
   C.   Obstructing Public Ways: All trees, hedges, billboards or other
obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of traffic
approaching an intersection from across streets in sufficient time to bring a
motor vehicle driven at a reasonable speed to a full stop before the
intersection is reached.
   D.   Obstructing Drainageways: Obstructions to the free flow of water in a
natural drainageway or a public street drain, gutter or ditch.
   E.   Objects Overhanging Public Ways:
      1.   Tree Limbs: All limbs of trees which are less than eight feet (8')
above the surface of any public sidewalk or nine feet (9') above the surface of
any street.
      2.   Utility Wires: All wires which are strung or hang across public
streets, alleys, lanes or sidewalks less than fifteen feet (15') above the
surface of the ground.
      3.   Signs 3 : All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures
over the streets or sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety.
   F.   Dangerous Buildings: All buildings, walls and other structures which
have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to an extent exceeding one-half
(1/2) their fair market value and which are so situated as to endanger the
safety of the public.
   G.   Explosives And Dangerous Substances: All explosives, bottle gas,
inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances stored in any manner deemed
dangerous by the code enforcement officer, fire chief or fire marshal.
   H.   Noises And Vibrations 4 : All unnecessary noises and annoying
vibrations.
   I.   Obstructing Public Ways:
      1.   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the
public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under such
conditions as are authorized by the city council.
      2.   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the streets or sidewalks.
   J.   Barbed Wire Fences 5 : All barbed wire fences which are located within
three feet (3') of any public sidewalk.
   K.   Dangerous Machinery: All dangerous, unguarded machinery, in any public
place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract the public.
   L.   Dogs At Large: The permitting of running at large within the city of
any dog. (1981 Code 901 § 4; amd. 2003 Code)
   M.   Barking Dogs: No person shall keep or harbor a dog which habitually
barks or cries. Any such dog is hereby declared a public nuisance.
   N.   Junk And Automobile Parts: The accumulation of junk, disused furniture,
appliances, machinery, automobiles or parts thereof, or any matter that may
become a harborage for rats, snakes, or vermin, or which creates a visual
blight, or which may be conducive to fire, or which endangers the comfort,
repose, health, safety or welfare of the public. (2003 Code)
   O.   Other Conditions: All other conditions or things which are liable to
cause injury to the person or property of anyone. (1981 Code 901 § 4)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  8-1-2 of this code.
2 1. See also subsection 8-2-3A of this code.
3 2. See also section
  12-1D-15 of this code.
  3. See also sections
4 12-1I-2 and
  12-1I-6 of this code.
5 1. See also section
  12-1D-6 of this code.
4-1-5: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Abatement By Owner: The primary responsibility for abating any nuisance
is that of the owner. The owner shall correct any nuisance within the time
specified in the notice of violation.
   B.   Abatement By Enforcing Officer; Recovery Of Costs: If, at the end of
the time period allowed for correction of a violation, the violation still
exists, the enforcing official may cause the following violations to be
corrected by private or public means; and pursuant to the provisions of
Minnesota statutes section 429.101, the city may collect unpaid special charges
for abating a nuisance for all or any part of the cost of the work, plus
administrative fees as a special assessment, for:
      1.   Snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks;
      2.   Removal or elimination of public health or safety hazards from
private property;
      3.   Repair of water service lines;
      4.   The treatment and removal of insect infested or diseased trees on
private property;
      5.   The operation and maintenance of a fire protection system; or
      6.   Rubbish, garbage and debris removal from private property.
   C.   Hearing; Abatement By City Council: The city council, in its
discretion, may schedule a hearing for the purpose of giving the property owner
the opportunity to appear before the council to respond to a notice of
violation. Written notice of any city council hearing to determine or abate a
nuisance shall be served upon the owner of record and the occupant of the
premises, either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or the
occupant refuses to accept notice of the council hearing, notice of the council
hearing shall be served by posting it on the premises. Except for those cases
determined by the city council to require emergency abatement, written notice
of any city council order shall be made as provided in Minnesota statutes
section 463.17. The city council may, after providing the owner or occupant an
opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice
of violation is a nuisance and order that, if the nuisance is not abated within
the time prescribed by the council, the city may seek injunctive relief by
serving a copy of the order.
   D.   Emergency Abatement: The enforcing official may cause any nuisance that
is a present or immediate danger to public health or safety to be corrected by
public or private means without notice to the owner, and the city may collect
unpaid special charges for all or any part of the costs of the work plus
administrative fees as a special assessment pursuant to Minnesota statutes
section 429.101.
   E.   Recovery Of Costs: The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city shall be personally liable for the costs incurred by
the city to abate the nuisance, including administrative costs. As soon as the
work has been completed and the costs determined, the city clerk or other
official designated by the city council shall prepare a bill for its costs and
mail it to the owner. Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the city clerk. If the bill remains unpaid, the city
clerk may commence a civil action to collect said bill. (2003 Code)
4-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall knowingly cause or create a nuisance,
or permit any nuisance to be created or placed upon or to remain upon any
premises owned or occupied by him or them, or in the case of the owner of a
dog, who shall permit a dog who is a "nuisance", as herein defined, to run at
large within the city, shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and costs, or by imprisonment for not less than five (5)
days nor more than ninety (90) days, or both; provided, that in event of
failure to pay any fine or costs assessed upon any person, he may be confined
an additional number of days equal to the number of dollars of fine and costs
assessed in the case, not to exceed three (3) months. (1981 Code 901 § 5; amd.
2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Licensing Requirements
4-2-4: Collection And Disposal Regulations
4-2-5: Recycling Requirements
4-2-6: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the MENDOTA HEIGHTS SOLID
WASTE ABATEMENT except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this
chapter".
In response to Dakota County Ordinance 110, the city of Mendota Heights has
created a solid waste abatement ordinance. The implementation of the ordinance
is intended to reduce the amount of waste going into landfills, improve the
quality of materials recycled to strengthen the market, and make progress
towards the state’s recycling goals. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989; amd. Ord. 561, 12-1-
2020)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this chapter, are defined
as follows:
                 The kitchen, food preparation, dishwashing, and storage areas
BACK-OF-HOUSE:   of a commercial generator or large event venue with organics
                 that are not accessed by customers or the public.
CITY:            The city of Mendota Heights, a Minnesota municipal
                 corporation.
COMMERCIAL       Any premises where a commercial or industrial enterprise of
ESTABLISHMENT:   any kind is carried on, and shall include restaurants, clubs,
                 churches, and schools where food is prepared or served.
CUSTOMER:        Those customers that have hired the hauler to collect solid
                 waste in the city of Mendota Heights.
                 The county department of unit designation by the county board
DEPARTMENT:      to conduct solid waste regulatory activities within the
                 county, its staff, and designation agents.
                 Ceramic dishware, glass, pet and human waste, items not
                 meeting ASTM standards D6400 or D6868, bags, cartons, diapers,
DESIGNATED LIST  disposable wipes, freezer boxes, wax and parchment paper,
OF CONTAMINANTS  shredded paper, trash, treated wood and sawdust, yard waste
FOR COMMERCIAL   and Christmas trees, recyclables, and other items defined by
COMPOSTING:      Dakota County Ordinance 110 as approved by the Dakota County
                 Board of Commissioners and published by the Department on the
                 Dakota County Website.
                 Batteries, ceramic dishware, clothing and textiles, food
                 waste, household hazardous waste, non- recyclable paper,
                 pallets, pet and human waste including diapers,
DESIGNATED LIST  pharmaceuticals and medicines, medical waste, plastic bags and
OF CONTAMINANTS  film, metal cylinders, scrap metal, shredded paper, Styrofoam,
FOR RECYCLING:   tanglers, trash, yard waste, electronics, appliances, sharps,
                 tires, and other items defined by Dakota County Ordinance 110
                 as approved by the Dakota County Board of Commissioners and
                 published by the Department on the Dakota County Website.
                 Aluminum, tin and steel beverage cans, plastic beverage
DESIGNATED LIST  bottles, glass bottles and jars, newsprint, cartons, mixed
OF RECYCLABLES   paper and cardboard and other items defined by Dakota County
OR RECYCLABLE    Ordinance 110 as approved by the Dakota County Board of
MATERIALS:       Commissioners and published by the Department on the Dakota
                 County Website.
                 All putrescible waste matter or material of every kind,
GARBAGE:         including animal offal and carcasses of dead animals but
                 excluding human excreta, sewage and other water carried
                 wastes.
HAULER:          A licensed solid waste hauler in the city of Mendota Heights.
                 A public gathering of at least three hundred (300) people that
LARGE EVENT      generates at least one (1) ton of municipal solid waste or
VENUE WITH       contracts for eight (8) cubic yard or more per location and
ORGANICS:        generates organics back-of-house. Examples include but are not
                 limited to concerts, fairs, festivals, community events,
                 athletic tournaments, parades, etc.
                 Garbage, other refuse, and other solid waste from residential,
                 commercial, industrial, and community activities which is
                 generated and collected in aggregate, but excluding auto hulks
MIXED MUNICIPAL  or construction debris, mining waste, sludges, household
SOLID WASTE:     hazardous waste, tree and agricultural wastes, tires, lead
                 acid batteries, used oil, yard waste, and other materials
                 collected, processed and disposed of as separate waste
                 streams.
MULTIPLE         Any building used for residential purposes consisting of more
RESIDENTIAL      than four (4) dwelling units.
DWELLING:
NON-RECYCLABLE   Paper napkins, paper towels, paper plates and cups.
PAPER:
                 Food scraps and food waste including bakery and dry goods,
ORGANICS:        coffee grounds, dairy products, egg and eggshells, meat, fish,
                 bones, produce, fruits, vegetables, and other items defined by
                 Dakota County Ordinance 110.
                 Includes all organic material resulting from the manufacture,
                 preparation, or serving of food or food products, and spoiled,
                 decayed or waste foods from any source, nonrecyclable bottles,
OTHER REFUSE:    cans, glassware, paper or paper products, crockery, ashes,
                 rags and discarded clothing, and other waste products, except
                 human waste or waste resulting from building construction or
                 demolition.
PLASTIC BEVERAGE Includes Recyclable PET (SPI code #1), HDPE (SPI code #2), PP
BOTTLES:         (SPI code #5) including containers and jugs.
RESIDENTIAL      Any single building consisting of one through three (3)
UNITS:           dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
                 That normal customary and scheduled day that the hauler has
SCHEDULED DAY:   informed the customer or agreed with the customer to collect
                 solid waste from the customer's residential unit.
SOLID WASTE      The standardized solid waste abatement education messaging
ABATEMENT        developed by the Department and published on Dakota County’s
MESSAGING:       website.
                 Metal beverage containers, glass, plastic beverage bottles,
TARGETED         cartons, cardboard, newsprint, or other resolution items
RECYCLABLES:     defined by Dakota County Ordinance 110 as approved by the
                 Dakota County Board of Commissioners and published by the
                 Department on the Dakota County Website.
                 Leaves and grass clippings or other materials as may be
YARD WASTE:      defined by council resolution. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989; amd. Ord.
                 284, 5-19-1992; Ord. 561, 12-1-2020)
 
4-2-3: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Licenses Required; Exemptions:
      1.   Required Licenses:
         a.   Hereinafter, it shall be unlawful for any person to collect,
haul, solicit or buy any garbage, other refuse and/or recyclables from or to
any place within the corporate limits of the city, other than his own residence
or place of business, without first having obtained a license to do so, as
hereinafter provided.
         b.   It is unlawful for any person or business to scavenge or
otherwise collect garbage, other refuse, recyclables or yard waste at the curb
or from recyclable containers without a license therefor from the city and an
account relationship with the owner of the premises. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989)
      2.   Exemption From Licenses: The license requirements of this subsection
shall not apply to persons who haul recyclables, yard waste, or mixed municipal
solid waste from their own residences or business properties; provided, that
they are disposed of in an environmentally sound manner by meeting the
following conditions:
         a.   Garbage is hauled in a timely manner such that it does not
accumulate and become a "nuisance" as defined under chapter 1 of this title and
by state and county laws.
         b.   Garbage is hauled in containers equipped with tight fitting
covers and which are also watertight on all sides and the bottom.
         c.   Other refuse, recyclables and recyclable materials are hauled in
a manner that prevents leakage or any possibility of a loss of cargo.
         d.   Garbage and other refuse is only dumped or unloaded at designated
sanitary landfills, municipal solid waste composting facilities, resource
recovery facilities, or other facilities authorized by Dakota County.
         e.   Recyclables and recyclable materials are only dumped or unloaded
at a recycling facility, an organized recycling drive, or through licensed
haulers.
         f.   Yard waste is privately composted, or is only dumped or unloaded
at a composting facility authorized by Dakota County, or through a licensed
hauler.
         g.   Items excluded in "mixed municipal solid waste" (as defined in
section
4-2-2 of this chapter) shall be collected, processed and disposed of according
to state and county laws. (Ord. 284, 5-19-1992)
   B.   Application For License: Any person desiring a license to collect
garbage, other refuse and/or recyclable materials shall make application for
the same to the city clerk upon a form prescribed and furnished by the city.
(Ord. 264, 2-21-1989)
   C.   License Fee And Plate: The fee for each such license shall be as set by
resolution of the city council. When a license is issued, the city shall
furnish to the licensee for a charge equal to the city's cost a metal license
plate for each vehicle to be used by such licensee within the city, which
license plate shall be affixed to each such vehicle in a conspicuous place.
   D.   Issuance Of Licenses; Expiration; Renewals: All licenses shall be
issued by the city clerk and shall expire on December 31 following the date of
issuance unless sooner revoked or forfeited. If a license granted hereunder is
not renewed previous to its expiration, then all rights granted by such license
shall cease, and any work performed after the expiration of the license shall
be in violation of this chapter. Persons renewing their licenses after the
expiration date shall be charged the full annual license fee. No prorated
license fee shall be allowed for renewals. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989; amd. 2003
Code)
   E.   Insurance Requirements: Any person holding a license hereunder shall
file with the city clerk certificates of public liability and property damage
insurance which shall remain and be in force and effect during the entire term
of said license and which shall contain a provision that they shall not be
cancelled without ten (10) days' written notice to the city. The contractor
shall procure and maintain during the life of the license period, commercial
general liability insurance covering personal injury including bodily injury
and property damage liability with a combined single limit of no less than five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence and aggregate. Said
policies of insurance shall further provide for indemnity and security to the
city against any liability and/or responsibility for the acts, actions, or
omissions of the licensee or of any of the agents or servants of such licensee,
subject, however, to the limitations as to amount herein stated. No work shall
be done under any license hereunder until said insurance certificates shall
have been filed and approved by the city clerk.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: The city council may suspend
or revoke the license of any person licensed under this chapter whose conduct
is found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter or whose work
hereunder or vehicle or vehicles used in connection therewith are found to be
improper or defective or so unsafe as to jeopardize life or property.
      2.   Notice And Hearing: The person holding such license shall be given
ten (10) days' notice in writing of such complaint and shall be granted the
opportunity to be heard before such action is taken. Notice hereunder shall be
deemed sufficient if it is sent to the address of the licensee as shown on the
most recent application for a license hereunder.
      3.   Revocation Upon Second Violation: When any person holding a license
has been convicted for the second time by a court of competent jurisdiction for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the council shall revoke
the license of the person so convicted. Such person may not make application
for a new license for a period of one year. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989)
4-2-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Required Collection Of Garbage And Other Refuse; Exemptions:
      1.   Every household and commercial/industrial establishment in the city
must be under a contract for the collection of garbage and other refuse with a
licensed garbage hauler. A household in a multiple residential dwelling is
considered to be under a garbage collection contract if the owner, association
or management entity has a contract with a licensed garbage hauler.
      2.   A household or commercial/industrial establishment may be exempt
from the requirement to be under a garbage and other refuse contract if the
household or commercial/industrial establishment hauls garbage or other refuse
from its own residence or business property and complies with the standards set
forth in subsection
4-2-3A2 of this chapter.
      3.   Multi-unit residential building owners and managers who manage
municipal solid waste through a common contract shall:
         a.   Ensure Dakota County’s designated list of recyclables are
collected for recycling.
         b.   Ensure recycling services are provided to all residents.
         c.   Provide recycling containers with a weekly service capacity of at
least 0.1 cubic yards per dwelling unit.
         d.   Ensure that the collection schedule and container capacity are
sufficient to contain all the recyclables collected and organics (if collected)
from the building and public spaces and to prevent overflowing containers.
         e.   Provide a collection schedule and containers adequate to meet the
requirements of this chapter. Container locations must include but are not
limited to: indoor and outdoor locations, public spaces, private spaces, and
communal spaces.
         f.   Ensure all trash collection containers or collection chutes are
co-located within ten feet (10') from a recycling container or recycling chute.
Each container or chute must have equal access.
         g.   Ensure all trash, recyclables, and organics collection containers
are clearly labeled or marked to adhere to the standards found in Dakota County
Ordinance 110, Section 16.06(A).
         h.   Provide solid waste abatement messaging in print or electronic
form to each employee, tenant, multiunit resident, student, volunteer, and
housekeeping and custodial contractors. Messaging must be documented and follow
the solid waste abatement messaging published on the Dakota County website and
occur:
            (1)   At least annually.
            (2)   Within thirty (30) days of any substantive change to
generator’s waste program.
            (3)   Within thirty (30) days of a new hire or new tenant.
      4.   Property owners, event sponsors and managers for large event venues
with organics shall:
         a.   Ensure Dakota County’s designated list of recyclables are
collected for recycling.
         b.   Provide a collection schedule and containers adequate to meet the
requirements of this chapter. Container locations must include but are not
limited to: indoor and outdoor locations, public spaces, private spaces, and
communal spaces.
         c.   Ensure all trash collection containers or collection chutes are
co-located within ten feet (10') from a recycling container or recycling chute.
Each container or chute must have equal access.
         d.   Ensure all trash, recyclables, and organics collection containers
are clearly labeled or marked to adhere to the standards found in Dakota County
Ordinance 110, Section 16.06(A).
         e.   Ensure all trash is delivered to a facility licensed or permitted
to accept the waste, recyclables are delivered to a recycling facility, and
organics are delivered for food recovery or to a composting facility or
anaerobic digester.
         f.   Provide solid waste abatement messaging in print or electronic
form to each employee, tenant, multiunit resident, student, volunteer, and
housekeeping and custodial contractors. Messaging must be documented and follow
the solid waste abatement messaging published on the Dakota County website and
occur:
            (1)   At least annually.
            (2)   Within thirty (30) days of any substantive change to
generator’s waste program.
            (3)   Within thirty (30) days of a new hire or new tenant.
   B.   Collection Schedules:
      1.   Weekly Collection: All licensed haulers shall make weekly collection
of separated garbage and other refuse and yard waste available to customers. In
the case of recyclables, all licensed haulers shall make weekly collection
available to customers, unless a hauler is providing a "one sort" service, in
which case the hauler may make collection available to customers every other
week.
      2.   Hours Of Collection: No collections of garbage, other refuse and/or
recyclable materials shall be made except between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Monday through Friday.
   C.   Collection Vehicle: Each licensed garbage, other refuse and/or
recyclable materials collector shall provide a vehicle, so constructed that the
contents will not leak or spill therefrom, in which all garbage, other refuse
and/or recyclable materials collected by the licensee shall be transported. The
vehicle used shall be kept clean and as free from offensive odors as possible,
and shall not be allowed to stand in any street, alley or public place longer
than is reasonably necessary to collect garbage, other refuse and/or recyclable
materials.
   D.   Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse: It is unlawful for any person to
deposit garbage or other refuse from any source in any place other than a
licensed sanitary landfill or county approved facility. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989;
amd. Ord. 284, 5-19-1992; 2003 Code; Ord. 389, 1-20-2004; Ord. 561, 12-2-2020)
4-2-5: RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Collecting Recyclable Materials Required: All licensed haulers shall
make curbside recycling collection available at a minimum of once a week to all
residential unit customer accounts, unless a hauler is providing a "one sort"
service, in which case the hauler may make collection available to customers
every other week. At a minimum, such service shall include all "targeted
recyclables" as defined herein. Such recycling pick up service shall be
considered a part of residential rubbish hauling service generally, and no
additional fee or charge may be made for such curbside recycling pick up.
   B.   Minimum Targeted Recyclables: Minimum targeted recyclables to be
collected are: newsprint, metal beverage cans, cardboard, cartons, plastic
beverage bottles, glass bottles and jars. Additional items may be added or
defined as the council deems necessary or as county requirements change.
   C.   Collection Schedule:
      1.   Weekly collection of recyclables from residential unit accounts
shall be available, unless a hauler is providing a "one sort" service, in which
case the hauler may make collection available to customers every other week.
Service for multiple residential dwellings shall be determined by agreement
between the hauler and the customer.
      2.   Collection of recyclables shall be on the scheduled day for normal
garbage collection for every customer.
      3.   Collections must be made within twelve (12) hours of designated
collection day.
   D.   Point Of Collection: Point of collection shall be agreed upon by the
customer and the hauler (i.e., curbside or other location).
   E.   Charges: Each licensee shall file with the city clerk a schedule of
hauling rates to be charged during the license period for which the application
is made. Every licensee shall provide thirty (30) days' prior notification of
any change in rates to be implemented during the license period.
   F.   Subcontracting For Recycling Services: All subcontractors shall comply
with all the licensing provisions contained within this chapter.
   G.   Procedure Of Collector:
      1.   Hauler must comply with all state, county and city laws and
regulations. If hauler does not comply with state, county, and/or city
regulations, ordinances or laws, the license may be revoked.
      2.   Hauler will retain ownership of recyclable materials.
      3.   Prior to delivery of the recyclables to the recycling center or
recycling company, the hauler shall weigh the recyclables at a state inspected
and certified scale. The recyclables shall be weighed, and the hauler shall
provide the city with scale receipts.
      4.   The hauler shall take the recyclables to a recycling center or to
any other company or entity that engages in the process of recycling. It is
unlawful to landfill or incinerate collected recyclables without approval from
the city.
   H.   Receipts, Reports And Payments:
      1.   On a monthly basis, the hauler shall provide to the city the scale
receipts for the recyclables collected in the city. Reports will be due by the
fifteenth of the month following the reporting period.
      2.   All licensed haulers shall report to the city the quantity of all
recyclables and yard waste abated from landfills. These reports shall be
submitted on a quarterly basis and shall include:
         a.   The number of residential units from which recyclables were
collected.
         b.   The weight of the recyclables, measured by the scale and
categorized by type of targeted recyclables.
         c.   The city's share of the hauler's total recyclables.
         d.   Yard waste may be reported in estimates of cubic yardage abated.
      3.   The city will provide the form on which the report will be
submitted.
      4.   The quarterly reports are due on March 15, June 15, September 15,
and December 15 of each year.
      5.   Haulers will be reimbursed each quarter at the discretion of the
city as determined by council resolution.
   I.   Collection Conditions Of Residents:
      1.   Residential unit customers may not put out materials more than
twelve (12) hours in advance of collection, and containers may not be out more
than twelve (12) hours after collection. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989; amd. Ord. 389,
1-20-2004; Ord. 561, 12-1-2020)
4-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 264, 2-21-1989; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS; NOXIOUS VEGETATION
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Weeds And Noxious Vegetation Prohibited
4-3-3: Duty To Abate
4-3-4: Abatement Procedure
4-3-5: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-6: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
The word "person" as used in this chapter shall mean and include one or more
persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations, partnerships,
associations, joint stock companies, societies and all other entities of any
kind capable of being sued. (1981 Code 1001 § 5)
4-3-2: WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   Height Restriction; Accumulations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent, servant, representative or
employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any occupied
or unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in the City to permit or maintain
on any such lot or land, or on or along the sidewalk, street, or alley adjacent
to the same between the property line and the curb or middle of the alley or
for ten feet (10') outside the property line if there is no curb, any growth of
weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height than twelve inches
(12"), or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. (1981 Code 1001 § 1;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Exemption. Any ground cover vegetation located in the following areas
is hereby exempt from height restrictions:
      1.   Shore impact zones;
      2.   Areas within fifty feet (50') of a wetland or natural drainage way;
      3.   Bluff impact zones;
      4.   Areas of native plant communities; and
      5.   Significant vegetative stands, with said areas identified under
Title 12 Zoning, Chapter 3, Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area (MRCCA)
Overlay District ordinance.
Ground cover vegetation and any vegetation management within the MRCCA Overlay
District shall comply with the Vegetation Management requirements and standards
of Section
12-3-9 of City Code Title 12, Chapter 3 and any Vegetation Management Permits
approved by the City.
   C.   Poisonous Plants: It shall be unlawful for any such person or persons
to cause, suffer, or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plant or
plants detrimental to health to grow on any lot or land in such manner that any
part of such ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous or harmful weed shall extend
upon, overhang or border any public place or allow the seed, pollen, or other
poisonous particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into
any public place. (1981 Code 1001 § 1; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 568, 9-23-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-2E of this title.
4-3-3: DUTY TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or land to cut
and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass or other rank,
poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply with the
provisions of section
4-3-2 of this chapter; provided, that cutting and removing such weeds, grass
and vegetation at least once in every three (3) weeks, between May 15 and
September 15 shall be deemed to be a compliance with this chapter. (1981 Code
1001 § 2)
4-3-4: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice To Abate: If the provisions of sections
4-3-2 and
4-3-3 of this chapter are not complied with, the weed inspector shall serve
written notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care
or control of any such lot or land to comply with the provision of this
chapter.
   B.   Abatement By City; Costs A Lien: If the person upon whom the notice is
served fails, neglects or refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be cut and
removed such weeds, grass or other vegetation within five (5) days after
receipt of such notice, or if no person can be found in the city who either is
or claims to be the owner of such lot or land or who either represents or
claims to represent such owner, the weed inspector shall cause such weeds,
grass and other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and removed, and the
actual cost of such cutting and removal, plus five percent (5%) for inspection
and other additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the
city clerk to the county auditor and shall thereupon become and be a lien upon
the property on which such weeds, grass and other vegetation were located and
shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and
levied upon such lot or land and shall bear interest at the same rate as taxes
and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in the same manner
as taxes. (1981 Code 1001 § 3)
4-3-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application For Exemption: An application for an annual exemption from
the requirements of this chapter may be filed with the weed inspector.
   B.   Grounds For Exemptions: The weed inspector may grant exemption from
strict compliance with this chapter if, in his determination, the property
meets certain criteria.
      1.   The inspector will give consideration for exemption to properties
which he determines to be wetland areas, wooded areas, steep slopes, large
undeveloped parcels, wildlife habitats, nature preserves or properties adjacent
thereto, or to those portions of developed residential lots which are
designated as natural and planted with decorative plants such as prairie grass
and wildflowers.
      2.   Unimproved portions of city parks, state owned property, rights of
way, and ditches are exempt from compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Revocation Of Exemption: Exemptions authorized by the weed inspector
are subject to revocation should any of the following conditions be determined
to exist:
      1.   Noxious weeds are found to be present subsequent to the granting of
an exemption;
      2.   The exemption results in creation of a sight obstruction or hydrant
obstruction;
      3.   An unusual number of complaints are lodged with the weed inspector;
or
      4.   The property becomes a disposal site for grass clippings, branches
or other forms of debris. (Ord. 273, 3-5-1991)
4-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass or other vegetation
as directed in this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply
with the provisions of any notice herein provided or who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or who shall resist or obstruct the weed
inspector or his employees in the cutting and removal of weeds, grass and other
vegetation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day on which such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1981 Code 1001 § 4; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SHADE TREE PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-4-1: State Regulations Adopted
4-4-2: Stockpiling Elm Wood
4-4-3: Conflicting Provisions
4-4-4: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Sections 1505.0010 through 1505.0600 of 3 Minnesota rules, department of
agriculture, shade tree program, together with amendments thereof to date, are
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as if set out
herein in full, except as hereinafter provided. A copy of said rules marked
"Official Copy" is on file in the office of the city clerk. (1981 Code 1008 §
1; amd. 2003 Code)
4-4-2: STOCKPILING ELM WOOD:
The stockpiling of bark bearing elm wood within the city limits of the city
shall be permitted during the period from September 15 through April 1 of any
given year. Any such wood not utilized by April 1 of any year must then be
removed and disposed of as provided by this chapter and the regulations
incorporated hereby. (1981 Code 1008 § 2)
4-4-3: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Where the provisions of this chapter conflict or are inconsistent with any
other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter shall supersede
except in instances where one regulation is more restrictive than another, in
which case, the more restrictive shall apply and control. (1981 Code 1008 § 3)
4-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 1008 § 4; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CLANDESTINE DRUG LABS
SECTION:
4-5-1: General Provisions
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Declaration Of Public Health Nuisance
4-5-4: Law Enforcement Action
4-5-5: Seizure Of Property
4-5-6: Action By City Health Authority
4-5-7: Site Owner's Responsibility To Act
4-5-8: Site Owner's Responsibility For Costs
4-5-9: City Action And Recovery Of Costs
4-5-10: Recovery Of Costs From Persons Causing Damage
4-5-11: Unauthorized Removal Of Postings
4-5-12: Entry Into Or Onto Site
4-5-13: Removal Of Personal Property From Site
4-5-14: Violation
4-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this chapter is to reduce public
exposure to health risks associated with hazardous chemicals or residue from a
clandestine drug lab site. Professional testing and investigations show that
chemicals used in the production of illicit drugs can condense, penetrate and
contaminate surfaces, furnishings and equipment of surrounding structures. The
city council finds that such sites, and the personal property within such
sites, may contain suspected chemicals and residues that place people,
particularly children or adults of childbearing age, at risk when exposed
through inhabiting or visiting the site or being exposed to contaminated
personal property.
   B.   Interpretation And Application: The provisions of this chapter must be
construed to protect the public health, safety and welfare. When the conditions
imposed by this chapter conflict with comparable provisions imposed by another
law, ordinance, statute or regulation, the regulations that are more
restrictive or that impose higher standards will prevail. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words and phrases below are
defined for the purpose of this chapter as follows:
CHEMICAL DUMP SITE: A place or area where chemicals or other waste materials
used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights.
CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION: The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE OR SITE: A place or area where law enforcement
personnel have determined that conditions associated with an unlawful
clandestine drug lab operation exist. A clandestine drug lab site may include
dwellings, accessory buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a
vehicle, boat, trailer or other appliance.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A drug, substance or immediate precursor specified in
Minnesota statutes 152.02, schedules I through V, as may be amended. The term
does not include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors
or tobacco.
MANUFACTURE: In places other than a pharmacy, includes the production,
cultivation, quality control or standardization by mechanical, physical,
chemical or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling or filling of drugs.
OWNER: A person, firm, corporation or other entity who or which owns, in whole
or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat, trailer or other
location associated with a clandestine drug lab site. Unless information is
provided to prove otherwise, the owner of real property is deemed to be the
property taxpayer of record in Dakota County files, and the owner of a vehicle,
boat or trailer is deemed to be the person listed as the owner on the most
recent title to the vehicle, boat or trailer. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-3: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE:
All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site are potentially unsafe due to health hazards and are
declared to be a public health nuisance. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-4: LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
   A.   Law enforcement authorities who identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site that may place the public or occupants at risk for
exposure to harmful contaminants and other associated conditions may:
      1.   Promptly notify the city health authority, county child protection
division, the United States drug enforcement administration, and the site owner
about the site and the conditions found;
      2.   Treat, store, transport or dispose of all waste generated from the
clandestine drug lab operation and found at the site in a manner consistent
with the Minnesota department of health and Minnesota pollution control
regulations;
      3.   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, in several conspicuous places on the
property. This temporary declaration will expire after the city health
authority inspects the site and determines the appropriateness of issuing a
permanent declaration of public health nuisance;
      4.   Notify all people occupying the site that a temporary declaration of
public health nuisance has been issued;
      5.   Require all people occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site, and not return without written
authorization from the city health authority;
      6.   Notify the occupants vacating the site that the personal property at
the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      7.   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people
from entering the site without authorization.
   B.   The notification of the people and organizations mentioned above may be
delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement objectives. (Ord. 395, 9-7-
2004)
4-5-5: SEIZURE OF PROPERTY:
When a clandestine drug lab site is inside a vehicle, boat, trailer or other
form of movable personal property, law enforcement authorities must immediately
seize it and not allow it to be transported except to a more secure location.
All other requirements of this chapter must be followed as closely as possible
given the specific type of property in which the site is discovered. (Ord. 395,
9-7-2004)
4-5-6: ACTION BY CITY HEALTH AUTHORITY:
   A.   Inspection And Declaration Of Nuisance: Within forty eight (48) hours
of notification that law enforcement authorities have determined the existence
of a clandestine drug lab site, the city health authority must inspect the
site. The city health authority may then promptly issue a permanent declaration
of public health nuisance and a do not enter–unsafe to occupy order for the
affected site to replace the temporary declaration. A copy of the permanent
declaration and order must be posted on all doorway entrances to the site or,
in the case of bare land, in several conspicuous places on the property.
   B.   Abatement Order: After issuing the permanent declaration, the city
health authority must send written notice to the site owner ordering abatement
of the public health nuisance. The abatement order must include the following:
      1.   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and do not
enter–unsafe to occupy order;
      2.   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
      3.   A summary of the site owner's and occupant's responsibilities under
this chapter; and
      4.   Information that may help the owner locate appropriate services
necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   C.   Notice To Other Parties: The health authority must also mail a copy of
the permanent declaration of public health nuisance and a copy of the ordinance
codified herein to the following parties at their last known addresses:
      1.   Occupants or residents of the site if known;
      2.   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected by
the conditions found;
      3.   The appropriate enforcement division of the United States drug
enforcement administration; and
      4.   Other city, state and local authorities, such as the city public
works department, the state pollution control agency, the state department of
health, and the department of natural resources, that are known to have public
and protection responsibilities applicable to the situation.
   D.   Modification Or Removal Of Declaration: The city health authority may
modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance after the health
authority receives documentation from a city approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firm stating that the suspected health and safety risks,
including those to neighbors and potential occupants, either do not exist or
have been sufficiently abated or corrected to justify amendment or removal of
the declaration. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-7: SITE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT:
   A.   Within ten (10) business days after the abatement order is mailed to
the site owner, the owner must accomplish the following:
      1.   Provide the city health authority, in writing, with:
         a.   Confirmation that all persons and their pets have vacated the
site;
         b.   The names of all children who the owner believes were residing at
the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab is suspected to have
been at the site; and
         c.   Confirmation that the site will remain vacated and secured until
the public health nuisance is completely abated as required by this chapter.
      2.   Contract with one or more city approved environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the most
current state guidelines:
         a.   A detailed on site assessment of contamination at the site,
including the personal property in the site;
         b.   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         c.   A complete cleanup of the site (including the cleanup or removal
of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures and contaminated soil) or a
demolition of the structures on the site and a complete cleanup of the
demolished site;
         d.   A complete cleanup, or disposal at an approved dump site, of all
personal property in the site that is found to have been affected by the
conditions at the site;
         e.   A complete cleanup of all property and soil in proximity to the
site that is found to have been affected by the conditions at the site; and
         f.   Remediation testing and follow up testing, including testing of
the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that all health risks are
sufficiently reduced to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site, the
personal property in it, and all property and soil in proximity to the site.
      3.   Provide the city health authority with the identity of the testing
and cleaning firm with which the owner has contracted for abatement of the
public health nuisance as required above; and
      4.   Sign an agreement with the city health authority establishing a
cleanup schedule. The schedule must establish reasonable deadlines for
completing all actions required by this section for abatement of the public
health nuisance. The city health authority must consider practical limitations
and the availability of contractors in approving the cleanup schedule.
   B.   The owner must meet all deadlines established in the cleanup schedule.
The owner must provide the city health authority written documentation of the
cleanup, including a signed statement from a city approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firm that the site, all personal property in it, and all
property and soil in proximity to the site is safe for human occupancy and use
and that the cleanup was conducted in accordance with the most current state
guidelines. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-8: SITE OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
The site owner is responsible for all costs of dealing with and abating the
public health nuisance, including contractor's fees and the city's costs for
services performed in connection with the clandestine drug lab site cleanup.
The city's costs may include:
   A.   Posting of the site;
   B.   Notification of affected parties;
   C.   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
   D.   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the special
assessment process;
   E.   Laboratory fees;
   F.   Cleanup services;
   G.   Administrative fees;
   H.   Legal fees; and
   I.   Other associated costs. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-9: CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS:
   A.   If the site owner fails to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter, the city health authority is authorized to take all reasonable actions
necessary to abate the public health nuisance including contracting with a city
approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm to conduct the work
outlined in subsection 4-5-7A2 of this chapter. The city health authority is
also authorized to provide a copy of the declaration of public health nuisance
to the holders of mortgage or lien interests in the affected site.
   B.   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at the
site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure or building and dispose of the personal property in it. These actions
must be taken in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter
463.
   C.   If the city abates the public health nuisance, the city is entitled to
recover all of its actual costs plus an additional twenty five percent (25%) of
such costs for administrative and legal expense, in addition to any other legal
remedy. The city may recover costs by civil action against the site owner or by
assessing the costs against the site as a special assessment. (Ord. 395, 9-7-
2004)
4-5-10: RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE:
Nothing in this chapter limits the rights of the site owner, occupants,
neighbors, or the city to recover costs from the persons contributing to the
public health nuisance, such as the operators of the clandestine drug lab, or
from other lawful sources. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-11: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS:
It is unlawful for a person, except authorized city personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance or do not
enter–unsafe to occupy order from a clandestine drug lab site. (Ord. 395, 9-7-
2004)
4-5-12: ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE:
While a declaration of public health nuisance for a site is in effect and has
been posted at the site, no person, other than a law enforcement officer, the
city health authority, or a person authorized by the city health authority, is
permitted to be inside or on a site. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-13: REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM SITE:
While a declaration of public health nuisance for a site is in effect and has
been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed from the site
without prior written consent from the city health authority. Consent to remove
personal property may be granted at the reasonable discretion of the city
health authority, and only in cases of hardship after:
   A.   A city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
   B.   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing that the owner:
      1.   Is aware of the danger of using the contaminated property;
      2.   Will thoroughly clean the property to remove all contamination
before the property is used; and
      3.   Releases and agrees to indemnify the city from all liability to the
owner and third parties for injuries or damages alleged to have been caused by
the contaminated property. (Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
4-5-14: VIOLATION:
Each violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and incarceration of up to ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 395, 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 6
SOCIAL HOSTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose And Findings
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Prohibited Acts
4-6-4: Penalty
4-6-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
The city council intends to discourage underage possession and consumption of
alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private residence, and intends
to hold persons criminally responsible who host events or gatherings where
persons under twenty one (21) years of age possess or consume alcohol
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplies the
alcohol. The city council finds:
   A.   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of twenty one (21) are
harmful to those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health
requiring prevention or abatement.
   B.   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as
well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such
as alcohol overdose or alcohol related traffic collisions.
   C.   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could have
drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by the
actions of an irresponsible user.
   D.   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present, and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol.
   E.   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an unrelated underage
person is a crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to
help further combat underage consumption.
   F.   A deterrent will be created by holding a person criminally responsible
for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or consumption of
alcohol occurs. (Ord. 455, 12-3-2013)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-half
of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have assembled
or gather together for a social occasion or other activity.
HOST OR ALLOW: To aid, conduct, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile, such as a natural,
adoptive parent, or stepparent, as a legal guardian; or as a person to whom
legal custody has been given by order of the court.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals. A person does not include any city,
county, or state agency.
RESIDENCE, PREMISES OR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY: Any home, yard, farm, field,
land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a
hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly, whether occupied on
a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically
for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or
used with or without permission or compensation.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 455,
12-3-2013)
4-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Unlawful To Host Event Or Gathering: It is unlawful for any person(s)
to host or allow an event or gathering at any residence, premises, or on any
other private or public property where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are
present when the person knows or reasonably should know that an underage person
will or does:
      1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
      2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume
it, and the person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or
consumption by the underage person(s).
   B.   Criminal Responsibility: A person is criminally responsible for
violating this section if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires,
counsels, or conspires with another to commit the prohibited act.
   C.   Host Does Not Have To Be Present: A person who hosts an event or
gathering does not have to be present at the event or gathering to be
criminally responsible for a violation of this section.
   D.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to the following persons or
situations:
      1.   Conduct solely between an underage person and his or her parents
while present in the parent's household.
      2.   Legally protected religious observances.
      3.   Licensed retail sellers of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders who are
regulated by Minnesota statutes 340A.
      4.   A landlord, mortgagee, hotel or motel owner or operator who has not
actually participated in knowingly furnishing alcohol for an event or
gathering.
      5.   Medical procedures or treatment authorized by a physician.
      6.   Law enforcement activities supervised by a law enforcement agency.
      7.   When underage persons are lawfully in possession of alcohol or
alcoholic beverages during the course and scope of employment. (Ord. 455, 12-3-
2013)
4-6-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation; Penalties: Violation of a provision of this chapter is a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, a person may be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or such other amount set by
law, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or such other
term set by law, or both. Each act of violation and each day on which a
violation occurs or continues is a separate violation. (Ord. 455, 12-3-2013)
CHAPTER 7
PREDATORY OFFENDERS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Findings And Intent
4-7-2: Definitions
4-7-3: Residence Prohibition; Penalties; Exceptions
4-7-4: Renting Real Property; Penalties
4-7-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT:
   A.   Repeat predatory offenders, predatory offenders who use physical
violence, and predatory offenders who prey on children and vulnerable
individuals, are predators who present a threat to the public safety. Predatory
offenders are likely to use physical violence or force and to repeat their
offenses. Most predatory offenders commit many offenses, have many more victims
than are ever reported, and are prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes.
Moreover, predatory offenders often learn and evolve as they commit additional
offenses, thereby making detection of their unlawfulness more difficult for
authorities. This makes the cost of predatory offender victimization to society
at large, while incalculable, clearly exorbitant.
   B.   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the City's compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate wherein certain predatory offenders are prohibited from
establishing a primary or secondary address. (Ord. 526, 6-19-2018)
4-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
DESIGNATED OFFENDER: Any person who: a) is required to register as a predatory
offender under Minnesota Statutes section 243.166, b) is assigned at risk level
II or risk level III under Minnesota Statutes section 244.052, subd. 3, and c)
has been convicted of a designated sexual offense, regardless of whether the
adjudication has been withheld.
DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE: A conviction, commitment under Minnesota Statutes
chapter 253B, or admission of guilt under oath without adjudication involving
any of the following offenses: Minnesota Statutes section 609.342, subd. 1(a),
(b), (g), (h); section 609.343, subd. 1(a), (b), (g), (h); section 609.344,
subd. 1(a), (b), (e), (f), (g); section 609.345, subd. 1(a), (b), (e), (f),
(g); section 609.352; section 617.23, subd. 2(1), subd. 3(1); section 617.246,
subd. 2, successor statutes, or a similar offense from another state.
PRIMARY ADDRESS: The mailing address of the person's dwelling. If the mailing
address is different from the actual location of the dwelling, primary address
also includes the physical location of the dwelling described with as much
specificity as possible.
SECONDARY ADDRESS: The mailing address of any place where the person regularly
or occasionally stays overnight when not staying at the person's primary
address. If the mailing address is different from the actual location of the
place, secondary address also includes the physical location of the place
described with as much specificity as possible. However, the location of a
supervised publicly or privately-operated shelter or facility designated to
provide temporary living accommodations for homeless individuals as defined in
Minnesota Statutes section 116L.361, subd. 5, does not constitute a secondary
address. (Ord. 526, 6-19-2018)
4-7-3: RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Location Of Residence: It is unlawful for any designated
offender to establish a primary address or secondary address within one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') of any of the following places:
      1.   Public or private school; or
      2.   Licensed child care facilities.
      3.   Any current designated offender residing in the City.
      4.   City parks.
   B.   Prohibited Activity: It is unlawful for any designated offender to
participate in a holiday event involving children under eighteen (18) years of
age, such as distributing candy or wearing any costume for the purpose of
enticing or attracting children. Holiday events in which the offender is the
parent or guardian of the children involved, and no non-familial children are
present, are exempt from this division.
   C.   Measurement Of Distance:
      1.   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the primary address or secondary address to the nearest outer
property line of the places identified in subsection A of this section.
      2.   The City Clerk shall maintain an official map showing prohibited
locations as defined by this chapter. The Clerk shall update the map at least
annually to reflect any changes in the location of prohibited zones.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor or administrative citation and shall be punished as
provided in this Code. Each day a person maintains a residence in violation of
this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
   E.   Exceptions: A designated offender residing within a prohibited area as
described in subsection A of this section does not commit a violation of this
section if any of the following applies:
      1.   The person established the primary address or secondary address and
reported and registered the residence pursuant to Minnesota Statutes sections
243.166, 243.167, or successor statute, prior to June 5, 2018.
      2.   The person was a minor when he/she committed the offense and was not
convicted as an adult.
      3.   The person is a minor.
      4.   The school or licensed child care facility within one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') of the person's primary address or secondary address was
opened after the person established the primary address or secondary address
and reported and registered the residence pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
sections 243.166 or 243.167.
      5.   The residence is also the primary address and secondary address of
the person's parents, grandparents, adult children, or spouse. (Ord. 526, 6-19-
2018)
4-7-4: RENTING REAL PROPERTY; PENALTIES:
   A.   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure, or part thereof,
trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
primary address or secondary address by any person prohibited from establishing
such primary address or secondary address pursuant to this chapter, if such
place, structure, or part thereof, trailer or other conveyance, is located
within a prohibited location zone described in subsection 4-7-3A of this
chapter.
   B.   A property owner's failure to comply with provisions of this section
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   C.   If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after signing a lease or otherwise agreeing to let the
offender reside on the property, the owner or property manager may evict the
offender. (Ord. 526, 6-19-2018)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Firearms; Bows And Arrows
5-1-2: Controlled Substances And Paraphernalia
5-1-3: Trespass And Conduct At Schools
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: FIREARMS; BOWS AND ARROWS:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Except as otherwise defined herein, all words and phrases shall have
the same meanings and definitions as contained in the applicable Minnesota
statutes then in force and effect.
      2.   "Air gun" means any air rifle, air gun, BB gun, spring gun or
similar device for the propulsion of shot or other metal or plastic pellet by
means of compressed air or mechanical spring action. (1981 Code 903 § 3)
   B.   Discharge Of Firearms: No person shall hereafter shoot, fire off,
discharge or explode any gun, air gun, pistol, revolver, or other firearm or
bow and arrows within the corporate limits of the city, except as hereinafter
provided. (1981 Code 903 § 1; amd. Ord. 349, 4-21-2000; 2003 Code)
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   Firearms: Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of
firearms:
         a.   By duly authorized police officers and law enforcement officers.
         b.   When used in the lawful defense of persons or property or family.
(1981 Code 903 § 2)
         c.   When used in conjunction with a youth firearm safety training
program duly approved by the appropriate officials of the state and when
operated under the supervision of instructors certified by the department of
natural resources of the state. (1981 Code 903 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Bow And Arrows: Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the use of a
bow and arrows by individuals authorized by the city to participate in deer
hunts for the purpose of thinning the deer population of the city or for target
practice by special permit issued by the police department. (Ord. 349, 4-21-
2000)
      3.   Limitation On Exemptions: No use permitted in this subsection shall
be deemed to authorize the doing of any act or thing otherwise forbidden or
regulated by any enactment of the United States or the state or regulations
promulgated pursuant to any such enactment. (1981 Code 903 § 2)
5-1-2: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Substances Prohibited: No person or persons shall possess, sell,
distribute or administer any coca leaves, opium, isonipecaine, amidone,
isomidone, ketabemidone, Cannabis indica, Cannabis sativa, marijuana, any other
substance which is chemically or physically indistinguishable from them, any
other drug to which the federal narcotic laws may now apply or any other drug
which is hereafter included under the federal narcotic laws and found by the
state commissioner of health, after reasonable notice and opportunity for
hearing, to have an addiction forming or addiction sustaining liability similar
to morphine or cocaine, from the effective date of determination of such
finding by said state commissioner of health. (1981 Code 910 § 1; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Possession Or Use Of Paraphernalia Prohibited:
      1.   No person or persons, except dealers or salesmen of surgical
instruments, registered pharmacies, licensed pharmacists, licensed doctors of
medicine, doctors of osteopathy duly licensed to practice medicine, licensed
doctors of dentistry, licensed doctors of veterinary medicine, or nurses or
interns in any licensed hospital or other licensed institutions wherein sick
and injured persons are cared for or treated, or bona fide hospitals wherein
animals are treated, when under the direction and supervision of a licensed
doctor as defined above, shall at any time have or possess any hypodermic
syringe or needle or have or possess any other instrument or implement adapted
for the use of cocaine or narcotic drugs by subcutaneous injections, unless
such possession be authorized by the certificate of a physician issued within
the period of one year prior to any time of such possession.
      2.   No person shall use, possess or have under his control for use any
stem, bowl, lamp, yen hock or other smoking paraphernalia or accessories used
for the smoking or inhalation of any of the narcotics or similar type
substances described in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section restricting the possession
of narcotic drugs specified in subsection A of this section and instruments or
implements specified in subsection B of this section shall not apply to common
carriers or warehousemen, or their employees, engaged in lawful distribution or
storage of such drugs or materials, or any thereof, or to public officers or
employees while engaged in the performance of their official duties, or to the
temporary incidental possession of such drugs or implements, or any thereof, by
employees or agents of persons lawfully entitled to possession thereof. (1981
Code 910 § 4)
5-1-3: TRESPASS AND CONDUCT AT SCHOOLS:
   A.   Definition: "School official", as used herein, shall be the
superintendent, director, principal, assistant principal, staff assistants,
teacher or building custodian. (1981 Code 911 § 2)
   B.   Trespass Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in a
public or private school building, or upon the grounds thereof, after being
restricted from the premises by a school official. (1981 Code 911 § 1; amd.
2003 Code)
   C.   Disturbing Schools Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
whether off or on school premises, to wilfully annoy, disturb, interfere with,
or obstruct any classroom instruction, teaching program, or assembly being
conducted by any public or private school. (1981 Code 911 § 3)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
JUVENILES
SECTION:
5-2-1: County Juvenile Curfew Ordinance Adopted
5-2-1: COUNTY JUVENILE CURFEW ORDINANCE ADOPTED:
The city council hereby adopts by reference Dakota County ordinance 122,
"Juvenile Curfew Ordinance". A copy of the Dakota County juvenile curfew
ordinance shall be marked as "Official Copy" and kept available for public use
in the office of the city clerk. The content of said ordinance is as follows:
   ORDINANCE NO. 122
   DAKOTA COUNTY
   JUVENILE CURFEW ORDINANCE
   The County Board of Dakota County ordains:
   Subd. 1. Purposes and Findings.
   (a) The Board of Commissioners of Dakota County finds and determines that
there has been an increase in juvenile violence and crime by juveniles in the
County of Dakota.
   (b) Juveniles are particularly susceptible by their lack of maturity and
experience to participate in unlawful activities and to be victims of older
perpetrators of crime.
   (c) Because of the foregoing, special and extenuating circumstances
presently exist within this County that require special regulation of juveniles
within the County in order to protect them and other persons during the
nighttime hours, to aid in crime prevention, to promote parental supervision
and authority over minors and to decrease juvenile crime rates; and
   (d) In accordance with prevailing community standards, this Ordinance serves
to regulate the conduct of minors in public places during nighttime hours, to
be effectively and consistently enforced for the protection of juveniles from
each other and from other persons, in public places during nighttime hours, for
the enforcement of parental control of, authority over, and responsibility for
their children, for the protection of the general public from nighttime
mischief by juveniles, for the reduction in the incidents of juvenile criminal
activities, for the furtherance of family responsibility and for the public
good, safety and welfare; and
   (e) It is the intent of the County Board to review and evaluate the need and
effect of nighttime curfew for juveniles set forth in this Ordinance on the
incidents of juvenile criminal activity and protection of juveniles against
criminal activity.
Subd. 2. Authority.
   This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority granted under Minn.
Stat. § 145A.05, subd. 7a (1994).
   Subd. 3. Definitions.
   (a) "Authorized adult" shall mean any person who is at least eighteen (18)
years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to have custody and control
of a juvenile.
   (b) "County Board" shall mean the Board of Commissioners of Dakota County.
   (c) "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   (d) "Juvenile" means a person under the age of eighteen (18) years. The term
does not include persons under 18 who are married or have been legally
emancipated.
   (e) "Parent" shall mean any person having legal custody of a juvenile (i) as
natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent; (ii) as a legal guardian; or (iii) as
a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
   (f) "Public place" means any place to which the public or a substantial
group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, roadways, parks, public recreation, entertainment or civic facility,
schools, and the common areas of hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   (g) "Serious bodily injury" means bodily injury that creates a substantial
risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   Subd. 4. Prohibited Acts.
   (a) It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of twelve (12) to be present
in any public place within Dakota County:
(1) any time between 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday, and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
(2) any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m. the
following day.
   (b) It shall be unlawful for any juvenile age twelve (12) to fourteen (14)
years to be present in any public place within Dakota County:
(1) any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
(2) any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on the
following day.
   (c) It shall be unlawful for any juvenile age fifteen (15) to seventeen (17)
years to be in any public place within Dakota County:
(1) any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
(2) any time between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
   (d) It shall be unlawful for a parent or authorized adult of a juvenile to
knowingly, or through negligent supervision, to habitually permit such juvenile
to be in any public place within the County during the hours prohibited by
Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Subdivision herein, under circumstances not
constituting an exception to this Ordinance as set forth herein. The term
"knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent or authorized adult shall
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile under
such person's care.
   (e) It shall be unlawful for any person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement or refreshment which is open to the public to knowingly and
habitually permit any juvenile to be in such place during the hours prohibited
by Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Subdivision herein, under circumstances
not constituting an exception to this Ordinance as set forth herein. The term
"person operating" shall mean any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any such establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   Subd. 5. Exceptions.
(1) The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of the
curfew:
   (a) at any time, if a juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent or an
authorized adult;
   (b) at any time, if a juvenile is involved in, or attempting to remedy,
alleviate, or respond to an emergency;
   (c) if the juvenile is engaged in a lawful employment activity, or is going
to or returning home from his or her place of employment;
   (d) if the juvenile is attending an official school, religious, or other
social or recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or
the county, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the juvenile;
   (e) if the juvenile is going to or returning home from, without any detour
or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a city or the County, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
juvenile;
   (f) if the juvenile is on an errand as directed by his or her parent,
without any detour or stop;
   (g) if the juvenile is engaged in interstate travel;
   (h) if the juvenile is on the public right-of-way boulevard or sidewalk
abutting the juvenile's residence or abutting the neighboring property,
structure, or residence;
   (i) if the juvenile is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution (or those similar rights protected by Article I of
the Constitution of the State of Minnesota), such as free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, and the right of assembly; or
   (j) if the juvenile is homeless or uses a public or semipublic place as his
or her usual place of abode.
(2) It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under Subd. 4(e) that:
   (a) the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified
the police department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (b) the owner, operator or employee reasonably and in good faith relied upon
a juvenile's representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be established
pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 340A.503, subd. 6, or other verifiable means,
including, but not limited to, school identification cards and birth
certificates.
   Subd. 6. Enforcement.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police officer
shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in a public place.
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that no
exception set forth in Subdivision 5 is applicable.
   Subd. 7. Penalties.
   (a) Violation of Subdivision 4(a), (b) and (c) will be prosecuted pursuant
to Minn. Stat. § 260B.235 and will be subject to the penalties therein.
   (b) Violation of Subdivision 4(d) or (e) shall be a misdemeanor.
   Subd. 8. Continuing Review and Evaluation.
   The County Attorney shall prepare and submit a report annually to the County
Board evaluating violations of this Section and the criminal activity by and
against juveniles within the County during the preceding year. The first report
shall be submitted one year after the effective date of Subdivision 10.
   Subd. 9. Severability.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provisions of this
Ordinance to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions of
this Ordinance not specifically included in said judgment.
   Subd. 10. Effective Date.
   The effective date of this Ordinance shall be August 1, 1995.
s) Joseph A. Harris  Joseph A. Harris, Chair
Dakota County Board of Commissioners
Date 7-11-95
s) Attest: Mary S. Scheide           Clerk to the Board
Date 7-11-95
Approved as to form and execution:
s) --- S. White 7-10-95           Assistant Dakota County Attorney/Date
(Ord. 305, 11-7-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DOMESTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: (Rep. by Ord. 549, 12-17-2019)
5-3-3: Requirements And Restrictions Involving Dogs
5-3-4: Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs
5-3-5: Nuisance Conditions
5-3-6: Disease Control
5-3-7: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-3-8: Killing Dogs Which Cannot Be Impounded
5-3-9: Investigations; Entry Powers
5-3-10: Chickens
5-3-11: Temporary Keeping Of Goats For Prescribed Grazing
5-3-12: Exemptions From Provisions
5-3-13: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
                            Any premises designated by action of the city
ANIMAL SHELTER:             council for the purposes of impounding and caring
                            for all animals in violation of this chapter.
ANIMAL WARDEN:              The person or persons designated by the city
                            council as the enforcement officer of this chapter.
AT LARGE:                   A dog shall be termed to be "at large" when it is
                            not under "restraint" as defined in this chapter.
                            A fowl of the genus Gallus and species gallus
CHICKEN:                    domesticus that is commonly referred to as
                            domesticated fowl.
DANGEROUS DOG:              A dog that has been determined to be dangerous by
                            the city of Mendota Heights.
GOAT:                       An animal in the subspecies of Capra aegagrus
                            hircus.
GRAZING:                    For the purpose of this section, it shall mean
                            goats eating vegetation.
                            A nonnative species whose introduction and
                            establishment causes, or may cause, economic or
INVASIVE SPECIES:           environmental harm or harm to human health,
                            threatens or may threaten natural resources or the
                            use of natural resources in the city.
                            An annual, biennial, or perennial plant that the
NOXIOUS WEED or VEGETATION: State of Minnesota designates to be injurious to
                            public health, the environment, public roads,
                            crops, livestock, or other property.
                            Any person, group of persons or corporation owning,
                            keeping, or harboring a dog or dogs. The "harborer"
OWNER:                      of a dog shall mean any person who has the custody
                            of any dog or permits the same to be kept or stay
                            on or about his premises.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG:  A dog that has been determined by the city of
                            Mendota Heights to be potentially dangerous.
                            The temporary use of goats as a landscape
                            management technique to control the growth of
                            invasive plant and/or noxious weeds or vegetation
PRESCRIBED GRAZING:         at a specific location and for a defined length of
                            time. For the purpose of this definition, goats
                            used for prescribed grazing are not considered pets
                            or farm animals.
PRESCRIBED GRAZING PERMIT:  A permit issued for a limited duration that allows
                            prescribed grazing within city limits.
                            A dog is under restraint, within the meaning of
                            this chapter, if it is controlled by leash not
RESTRAINT:                  exceeding six feet (6') in length, or if it is
                            within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
                            public streets, or if it is within the property
                            limits of its owner's premises.
                            Bodily injury, which involves a temporary but
                            substantial disfigurement, or which causes a
                            temporary but substantial loss or impairment of the
SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM:    function of any bodily member or organ, or which
                            causes a fracture of any bodily member as defined
                            in Minnesota statutes section 609.02, subdivision 7
                            (a). (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 339, 4-4-2000;
                            2003 Code; Ord. 508, 3-7-2017; Ord. 566, 7-6-2021)
 
5-3-2: DOG LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   (Rep. by Ord. 549, 12-17-2019)
5-3-3: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING DOGS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited; Restraint Required: No owner of a dog
shall permit his/her dog to be at large in the city but shall keep such dog
under restraint at all times.
   B.   Confinement Of Certain Dogs:
      1.   Dangerous Dogs: The owner of a dog shall confine within a building
or secure enclosure every dangerous dog, except when securely muzzled and in
the control of an adult person in accordance with this chapter. (amd. 2003
Code)
      2.   Female Dogs In Heat: Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a
building, secure enclosure, veterinary hospital or boarding kennel.
   C.   Biting Dogs: No owner shall permit his/her dog to attack or bite a
person or another domestic animal outside the owner's premises.
   D.   Dog Waste:
      1.   Receptacle For Waste Removal Required: It is unlawful for any person
to cause or permit a dog to be on any property, whether public or private, not
owned or possessed by such person, unless such person has in his/her immediate
possession a device for the removal of excrement and the transmission of
excrement to a proper receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by
such person.
      2.   Waste Removal Required: It is unlawful for the owner of any dog or
any person having custody of or in control of a dog, to permit the dog to be on
any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person, and
fail to remove excrement left by such dog and deposited in a proper receptacle.
      3.   Exemptions: The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the
ownership or use of seeing eye dogs by blind persons, dogs used in police
activities by the city, or tracking dogs when used by or with the permission of
the city. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 549, 12-17-2019)
5-3-4: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that has:
      1.   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human on
public or private property; or
      2.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner's
property; or
      3.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
      1.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property; or
      2.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      3.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   B.   Declaration Of Potentially Dangerous Dog Or Dangerous Dog:
      1.   Authority: The Mendota Heights police department may declare a dog
to be potentially dangerous or dangerous when it has reason to believe the dog
is "potentially dangerous" or "dangerous" as defined herein.
      2.   Notice To Owner: A written notice declaring the dog potentially
dangerous or dangerous will be served upon the owner of the dog. Such notice
will include a copy of the provisions of this section and Minnesota statutes
sections 347.50 through 347.55.
      3.   Appeal And Hearing:
         a.   Any owner of a dog declared dangerous may appeal by serving upon
the city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice declaring
the dog dangerous, a written notice of appeal.
      b.   A hearing officer shall hear the appeal hearing within fourteen (14)
days of the date of the request for a hearing. The appeal hearing shall be
conducted in an informal manner, and the Minnesota rules of civil procedure and
rules of evidence shall not be strictly applied. A record shall be made of the
hearing. The hearing may be transcribed at the sole expense of the party who
requests transcription.
      c.   After considering all evidence submitted, the hearing officer shall
make written findings of fact and reach a conclusion whether the dog is a
dangerous dog within ten (10) days after the hearing. The findings and
conclusions shall be made and served upon the dog owner as soon as practical.
         d.   An owner's right to appeal or otherwise contest a dangerous dog
declaration shall be deemed waived if the owner fails to serve a written
request for appeal as required herein or fails to appear at the scheduled
appeal hearing.
   C.   Insurance Requirements: All owners of dangerous dogs must, within
thirty (30) days of receiving notification that their dog has been declared a
dangerous dog, provide proof to the city clerk of liability insurance in a
single incident amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for
bodily injury to or death of any person or persons which may result from the
ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Such insurance policy shall
provide that no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten (10) days'
written notice is first given to the city clerk. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
   D.   Registration Of Dangerous Dogs: All dangerous dogs must be registered
with the Mendota Heights police department annually during the month of January
of each year. At the time of registration, each owner of a dangerous dog must
provide the city clerk with proof of liability insurance and payment in full of
the required fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the city council.
If a portion of the year has elapsed when a new registration is made, a
registration will be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee.
In computing such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as
one month.
   E. Declaration By Other Entity: The owner of each dog having been declared
potentially dangerous or dangerous by another political entity shall notify the
Mendota Heights police department in writing when the owner moves into the city
with the dog. In addition, the owner of each dog which has been declared
potentially dangerous or dangerous by the city of Mendota Heights shall notify
the Mendota Heights police department in writing when moving from Mendota
Heights. Such notification shall include the owner's new address.
   F. Confinement And Restraint Requirements:
      1.   Leash And Muzzle Requirements: No person shall permit a dangerous
dog to go outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a
leash no longer than four feet (4') in length. No person shall permit a
dangerous dog to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its
kennel or pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs
may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the
like. In addition, all dangerous dogs on a leash outside the animal's kennel
must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting
persons or other animals.
      2.   Secure Pen Or Kennel:
         a.    All dangerous dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled as
above provided. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a
secure top attached to the sides.
         b.    All structures used to confine dangerous dogs must be locked
with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the structure.
         c.    Such structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to
the sides of the pen, or the sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no
less than two feet (2').
         d.    All structures erected to house dangerous dogs must comply with
all zoning and building regulations of the city.
         e.    All such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated
and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.    Confinement Prohibitions: No dangerous dog may be kept on a porch,
patio or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit
such building of its own volition. In addition, no such dog may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacles preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   G.    Sign Requirements: All owners of dangerous dogs within the city shall
immediately display in a prominent place on their premises, and on the kennel
or pen of the dangerous dog, a sign easily readable by the public using the
words "Beware of Dangerous Dog". In addition, a second sign, as approved by the
Minnesota department of public safety, which depicts a warning symbol, shall be
displayed in close proximity to this first sign. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
   H.    Violations: It shall be unlawful for the owner of a potentially
dangerous or dangerous dog to fail to comply with the requirements and
conditions set forth in this section. Any dog found to be the subject of a
violation of this section shall be subject to immediate seizure and
impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the revocation of
the license of such animal, requiring the immediate removal of the animal from
the city. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 549, 12-17-2019)
5-3-5: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.    Barking Dogs: No person shall keep or harbor a dog which habitually
barks or cries. Any such dog is hereby declared a public nuisance. Habitual
barking or crying is defined as noise over at least a five (5)-minute period of
time with one minute or less lapse of time between each barking or crying noise
during the five (5)-minute period.
   B.   Number Of Dogs And Cats: No person shall keep more than three (3) dogs
or cats over sixteen (16) weeks of age upon any premises within the city
limits. The keeping of more than three (3) such dogs or cats is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 549, 12-17-2019)
5-3-6: DISEASE CONTROL:
   A.    Rabies Suspects; Biting Dogs And Cats; Impoundment:
      1.    Authority To Impound: Whenever the animal warden or any police
officer has reason to believe that any dog or cat in the city has been exposed
to rabies, or whenever the animal warden or any city police officer has reason
to believe that a dog or a cat has bitten any person within the city, the
animal warden or any city police officer is hereby authorized and empowered to
take such dog or cat to the animal shelter and there keep such dog or cat for a
reasonable time to determine whether such dog or cat is diseased, and no
diseased dog or cat shall be killed unless so ordered by the chief of police.
      2.    Costs To Owner: The cost of keeping such dog or cat in the city
animal shelter shall be paid by the owner of such dog or cat.
      3.    Impoundment At Owner's Premises: Such impounding may be by the
owner who must keep such dog or cat inaccessible to other animals and confined
within a building approved by the chief of police, and the owner shall furnish
proof in writing that such dog or cat is being impounded, unless a complaint is
signed by the person bitten, or a parent or legal guardian of the person
bitten, which requires impoundment at the city animal shelter.
      4.    Release Or Reclamation Of Suspects:
         a.    On expiration of such impoundment period, if the dog or cat is
not deceased, it may be released.
         b.    If the dog or cat is impounded in the animal shelter, such dog
or cat may be reclaimed on expiration of such impoundment period after payment
by the owner of the costs of such impoundment. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
         c.    If the dog has been declared to be potentially dangerous or
dangerous, proof of compliance with the requirements for keeping such animal,
as outlined in Minnesota statutes sections 347.50 through 347.55, shall be
supplied to the police department prior to the release of the animal. (2003
Code)
   B.    Reports Required:
      1.    It shall be the duty of every physician or any other person to
report to the city police department the names and addresses of persons treated
for bites inflicted by animals within the city, together with such other
information as will be helpful in disease control.
      2.    It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to
the city police department his/her diagnosis of any animal within the city
observed by him/her as a rabies suspect, and the police department shall
immediately take the steps prescribed by subsection A of this section.
   C.    Records Kept: It shall be the duty of the police department to keep,
or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all animal bite cases
under subsection B1 of this section. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
5-3-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.    Animal Shelter: The city council may provide for a city owned animal
shelter or may designate as the animal shelter of the city a suitable kennel
either within or outside the city.
   B.   Enforcement Officials Designated; Powers: The city council shall
designate the animal warden and may, if it so determines, appoint such
additional persons as it may deem necessary to aid and assist the animal warden
in the performance of his/her duties hereunder. All references to the animal
warden in this chapter shall be deemed to include such assistants. Such persons
and the police officers of the city are authorized to cite owners of dogs or
other animals for violations of this chapter in addition to their authority to
impound dogs as prescribed by subsection C1 of this section.
   C.   Impounding Dogs:
      1.   Authority; Entry Powers: The animal warden and his/her assistants
and any police officer of the city may take up and impound any dog found not to
be kept, confined or restrained in the manner required by this chapter. To
enforce this chapter, such officers may enter upon private premises whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that a dog is not being kept, confined or
restrained as herein required.
      2.   Impoundment Period: Any dog so impounded shall be confined in the
animal shelter in a humane manner for a period of not less than five (5) days,
if not claimed prior thereto by the owner. If said dog is not claimed by its
owner within the five (5) day period, it shall become property of the city, and
may be disposed of in a humane manner or may be sold to or placed in the
custody of some other suitable person.
      3.   Dogs; Notice To Owner: Immediately upon the impounding of a dog, the
animal warden shall make reasonable effort to notify the owner of such dog of
such impoundment and of the conditions whereby the owner may regain custody of
the dog. The animal warden shall immediately confirm any verbal notice in
writing.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs; Costs:
      1.   If the dog has been declared to be potentially dangerous or
dangerous, proof of compliance with the requirements for keeping such animal,
as outlined in Minnesota statutes sections 347.50 through 347.55, shall be
supplied to the police department prior to the release of the animal. (2003
Code)
      2.   Any dog impounded hereunder, not being held for suspected disease,
may be reclaimed by the owner within five (5) days, upon payment by the owner
to the city of an impounding fee as determined by the city council, plus the
cost of the city for keeping such dog in the city animal shelter.
   E.   Records And Reports:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the animal warden to keep or cause to be
kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of all
animals coming into his/her custody.
      2.   The animal warden shall account for and pay over monthly to the city
any money received by him/her on behalf of the city hereunder, and shall also
give an accurate written report to the city police department stating all
monies collected, all dogs impounded and the duration of impoundment, and all
dogs destroyed.
   F.   Interference With Enforcement Officials Prohibited: No person shall
interfere with, hinder, or obstruct the animal warden or any of his/her
assistants or any police officer in the performance of their duties hereunder,
or seek to release any animal in the custody of the animal warden except as
herein provided. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999; amd. Ord. 508, 3-7-2017; Ord. 549, 12-
17-2019)
5-3-8: KILLING DOGS WHICH CANNOT BE IMPOUNDED:
If a dog is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to rabies and such
dog cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort, or cannot be impounded
without serious risk to the persons attempting to impound, such dog may be
immediately killed. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
5-3-9: INVESTIGATIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
For the purposes of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and to
enforce its provisions, the animal warden or any police officer of the city is
empowered to enter upon the premises upon which a dog is kept or harbored and
to demand the exhibition by the owner of such dog and/or the license for such
dog. The animal warden or any police officer may enter the premises where any
animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to examine
such animal and to take possession of such animal when, in his/her opinion, it
requires humane treatment. (Ord. 331, 5-18-1999)
5-3-10: CHICKENS:
   A.    Up to six (6) female chickens, Gallus domesticus, may be kept on a
residential premises as domestic animals, provided such chickens are kept in an
accessory structure meeting the provisions of section
12-1D-3  of the zoning code. Such structure must be constructed so that it may
be easily cleaned, and so that the chickens are completely enclosed and
protected from children and animals on the outside.
   B.   The animal warden and/or zoning administrator has the authority to
enter upon private premises wherever chickens are kept or a domestic chicken
permit license has been issued, when there is a reasonable cause to believe
that the chickens are being mistreated or pose a threat to the health and
safety of people or other animals. (Ord. 508, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 553, 2-4-
2020)
5-3-11: TEMPORARY KEEPING OF GOATS FOR PRESCRIBED GRAZING:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to establish conditions under
which the temporary and periodic use of a limited number of goats for invasive
and noxious vegetation control is permitted and to establish the requirements
for doing so in order to protect the environment and the health, safety, and
welfare of the general population.
   B.   Prescribed Goat Grazing Permit Required: No goat may be kept,
maintained, or harbored on any property in the city unless a goat grazing
permit has been approved and issued. A permit may be granted only for:
      1.   A parcel or lot of record that is 0.5 acres or more in size; or
      2.   A prescribed grazing area located on more than one parcel or lot
provided the grazing areas on each parcel/lot are contiguous and an aggregate
of 0.5 acres or more in size.
   C.   Application for Permit: The applicant must submit the following
information for the request to be considered.
      1.   The applicant shall complete an application form provided by the
City and filed with the City Clerk. The applicant shall also pay the
application fee for the permit which shall be established by the City fee
schedule. Permit fees shall not be prorated or refundable.
      2.   A detailed site plan of the premises on which prescribed grazing is
sought to occur, including the location and the dimensions of the proposed
grazing area, a list of the vegetation existing on the site and sought to be
controlled by the prescribed grazing.
      3.   The full name and address of the following persons:
         a.   The applicant; and
         b.   The owner(s) of the premises on which prescribed goat grazing is
sought to occur and for which the permit would apply.
      4.   The street address of the premises on which prescribed grazing is
sought to occur and for which the permit would apply.
      5.   The number of goats to be kept on the premises under the permit, not
to exceed two (2) goats per every one-tenth (0.10) acre of the prescribed
grazing area.
      6.   A list of person(s) owning, providing, managing and monitoring the
goats, including their full name, address, and twenty-four (24)-hour contact
information accompanied by evidence of liability insurance as required by this
Section.
      7.   The type of fencing to be used for the required enclosure, and date
the temporary fence will be installed.
      8.   Date the goats will arrive on the premises for which the permit
would apply, and the latest date the goats will be removed from the premises
for which the permit would apply.
      9.   A statement certifying whether the property's homeowners'
association rules, if any, prohibit the keeping of goats on the property for
which the permit is sought.
      10.   The signature of the owner(s) of the premises or a homeowners'
association board officers where the prescribed grazing will occur.
      11.   Any other and further information as the City deems necessary.
   D.   Granting or Denying Issuance of Permit: The City may grant a permit
under this Section provided the application filed demonstrates compliance with
the requirements of this section. The City shall deny a permit hereunder for
any of the following reasons:
      1.   The application is incomplete or contains false, fraudulent, or
deceptive statements.
      2.   The applicant does not or has not complied with one or more of the
provisions of this Section.
      3.   The premises for which the permit is sought, including, but not
limited to, the proposed grazing area, is not in compliance with any provisions
of this subdivision, other City Code provisions or state laws relating to
zoning, health, fire, building, or safety.
      4.   The applicant or owner of the premises where the prescribed grazing
is to occur has been previously convicted of a violation under this Section
within the past two (2) years.
      5.   The owner of the goats has violated any provision hereunder, or on
more than two prior occasions, the owner's goats have been found running at
large.
   E.   Duration of Permit: The duration of a permit under this section shall
be as follows:
      1.   Prescribed grazing shall not be permitted for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days. No more than three (3) prescribed grazing permits may be
issued within one (1) calendar year for the same property. There shall be a
minimum of thirty (30) days between the expiration of the first permit issued
and the second permit issued in a twelve (12) month period.
   F.   Conditions of Permit: The keeping of goats is permitted pursuant to a
permit granted under this Section, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Transferability of Permit: A permit issued hereunder shall be
nontransferable and shall be solely for the property listed on the permit.
      2.   Liability Insurance: The provider or owner of the goat(s) to be
utilized under the permit shall have and maintain insurance coverage for claims
arising from prescribed grazing in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000) general
aggregate and shall provide to the City proof of the required insurance
coverage prior to issuance of the permit. The City shall have no liability for
any damages that may be caused by goats kept on a property pursuant to a
prescribed grazing permit. The permit holder shall be responsible for any
damage caused by goats used for prescribed grazing purposes.
      3.   Monitoring: Goat provider or owner must have staff available to
respond to any emergency complaints or concerns at all time of the day or
night. Applicant will furnish an emergency contact number when applying for any
permit.
      4.   Right-of-Entry for Inspection: The premises for which a permit is
issued shall, at all reasonable times, be open to inspection by the city staff
to determine compliance with the permit, other City Code provisions and state
laws relating to zoning, health, fire, building, or safety.
      5.   Number of Goats Permitted: No more than two (2) goats per every one-
tenth (0.10) acre of the prescribed grazing area shall be on the premises at
one time under the permit.
      6.   Proper Enclosures: The prescribed grazing area shall be fully and
securely enclosed with proper enclosures, and fully maintained for the duration
of the prescribed grazing permit, as required and provided herein. Fencing must
be designed to prevent escape by goats and to protect the goats from the
intrusion of other predatory animals. All sides of the enclosure(s) shall be of
sufficient height and the bottom of the enclosures shall be constructed or
secured in a manner as to prevent the goats from escaping over or under the
enclosure(s). The prescribed grazing activity shall be fully and properly
enclosed at all times. It is unlawful and a violation of the permit for any
goat to be allowed to run at large during the duration of this permit. An
enclosure shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Permanent enclosures: Fences and structures constructed to
enclose prescribed grazing goats, but intended to remain at the expiration of
the prescribed grazing activity, shall comply with the regulations for the
zoning district in which the prescribed grazing is located and shall be
permitted separately from the prescribed grazing activity.
         b.   Temporary enclosures:
            (1)   Temporary fencing and structures for the sole purpose of
enclosing prescribed grazing goats shall be allowed for the duration of the
prescribed grazing. All temporary fencing or structures shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the removal of the goats from the premises as required under
the permit;
            (2)   Temporary fences must not exceed six-feet (6') in height;
            (3)   Temporary fences may be electric or electrified as specified
in the approved prescribed grazing permit. Where electric fences are used, a
double fence system with a non-electric outer fence, maintained a minimum of
three (3) feet from the electric fence, is required to serve as a safety
barrier to reduce the possibility of the public coming in contact with the
electric fence. If an existing natural barrier or permanent structure exist as
to prevent contact with or serve as a barrier to the electric fence, then the
second outer fence may not be required for the applicable segment of fencing;
and
            (4)   The outer fence may be allowed up to the property line of the
premises on which the permit applies, and shall not be located within any
public or private right-of-way.
      7.   Signage, Temporary: The permit holder shall install and maintain
temporary signs on the premises for the duration of the permit as follows:
         a.   All signs must be located on each side of the enclosed area and
visible to the public;
         b.   The signs must state the purpose of the goats and enclosure, and
provide any caution or warning message in a manner that is visible to the
public;
         c.   The signs must contain emergency contact information of the owner
of the goat(s);
         d.   The signs shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet from
property line if freestanding, or placed on the enclosure fence;
         e.   All signs shall be removed when goats are removed from the
premises; and
         f.   Any electric or electrified fence in association with prescribed
grazing must have a warning sign posted on every boundary of the enclosure at
least every fifty (50) feet along each side of the fence. The warning sign
shall clearly identify the electric fence. No single sign shall exceed four (4)
square feet in area. Each sign shall be clearly visible on the approach to the
fence and be posted on or within one (1) foot of the electric or electrified
fence.
      8.   Shelter: Temporary shelters for the goats may be allowed as per the
discretion of the provider.
      9.   Herd Specifics: Only females, neutered male goats, or unneutered
male goats less than six months old that accompany female goats are allowed.
      10.   Odor and Cleanliness: The property must be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition so as to be free from offensive odors, fly breeding, dust,
and general nuisance conditions.
      11.   Natural Resources Protection: Prescribed grazing shall not
adversely affect significant natural resources. Prescribed grazing activities
shall comply with the following:
         a.   Prescribed grazing activities shall comply with the best
management practices established by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture,
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, Dakota County Soil and Water
Conservation District, and all other pertinent agencies;
         b.   Prescribed grazing activities shall not impair water quality as
defined by the Federal Clean Water Act;
         c.   Threatened or endangered plant species shall be protected from
grazing activities; and
         d.   No goats may be brought onto a property that is known to have the
Invasive Jumping Worm (Amynthas Z species).
      12.   Conservation Easements: If the proposed prescribed grazing area is
within a conservation easement, all requirements of the conservation easement
must be met. If the terms of the conservation easements do not allow prescribed
grazing, then the permit will be denied.
   G.   Feeding of Goats: No supplemental feeding of grain based feed or foods
will be allowed, except for vitamin or mineral supplements. All goats on the
premises shall be provided with and have daily access to fresh drinking water.
   H.   Care of Goats: All goats used under the permit shall receive proper
veterinary treatment and regular deworming. In the event that a prescribed
grazing goat becomes ill, hurt, or perishes, the permit holder and the owner of
the goat is responsible for immediate on-site care or removal of the goat from
the property. Overall care of the goats shall include the following:
      1.   Goats that become parasitized or otherwise unhealthy shall be
removed off-site by the contractor or provider.
      2.   To ensure the biosecurity of the grazing site, all goats introduced
to the permitted grazing site must come clean and leave clean.
   I.   Violation and Penalties: If a violation of the terms of this Section or
the prescribed goat grazing permit is found, the City shall give written notice
thereof to the permit holder. If the violation is not remedied within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, a misdemeanor citation may be issued and/or the
prescribed goat grazing permit may be revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City may immediately revoke the permit and/or a misdemeanor citation may be
immediately issued if there is a violation of
5-3-11(G) or
5-3-11(H) or if a permit holder's goat(s) have been found running at large on
two (2) or more occurrences within the term of the permit. The City shall
notify the permit holder of the opportunity to appeal the revocation to the
City Council in writing, and the City shall specify the length of time the
permit holder has to file an appeal. The permit holder shall file the request
for the hearing in front of City Council within ten (10) days of the date of
the revocation or shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal. (Ord.
566, 7-6-2021)
5-3-12: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians
exclusively for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter except where such duties are expressly stated. (Ord.
508, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 566, 7-6-2021)
5-3-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 508, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 566, 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER 4
TRAPPING AND HUNTING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Trapping And Hunting Prohibited; Exceptions
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to preclude the potential harm that may be
inflicted upon people, particularly children, and prevent the unselective
catching, maiming and destruction of wild animals and birds and domestic
animals that may result from the indiscriminate use of firearms and trapping
devices. (1981 Code 914 § 1)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms below have the meanings described:
HUNTING: The pursuit of wild animals, birds or any form of wildlife involving
the use of firearms or any other mechanical device or any use of physical force
to bring down, restrain, harass, injure, maim or kill any such wild creatures.
TRAP: Any mechanical device, snare, artificial light, vehicle, net, bird line,
or any other similar type contrivance.
TRAPPING: The setting or laying or otherwise using of a trap anywhere in the
city of Mendota Heights to trap, catch, snare or otherwise restrain free
movement of animals, wildlife or birds. (1981 Code 914 § 2)
5-4-3: TRAPPING AND HUNTING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Trapping and hunting anywhere in the city is prohibited. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Representatives of the city, county, state or federal governments who
may, in the course of their duties, be required to use a trap to trap, catch,
snare, kill or otherwise restrain the free movement of any animal, wildlife or
birds for humane or other authorized purposes, or to such representatives, or
to scientists intending to identify animals, wildlife or birds and then
returning them to their natural environment. (1981 Code 914 §§ 3, 4; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Persons who engage in trapping or hunting on their private property to
prevent an unsafe condition or the waste or destruction of their property when
such persons have complied with other applicable provisions of the ordinances
of the city and the laws of the state. (1981 Code 914 §§ 3, 4)
   C.   Persons who engage in the humane and live trapping of domestic animals
on their private property when those animals have caused damage or have
jeopardized the health, safety or repose of the owner of that property.
Domestic animals are only to be trapped using an approved trap provided by the
police department, and trapped animals shall be delivered to the police
department as soon as practical. The police department will cause all trapped
domestic animals to be impounded by the city designated kennel or clinic. (Ord.
279, 8-6-1991)
5-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 914 § 5; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ALARMS AND ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Alarm System Regulations And Requirements
5-5-4: False Alarms
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the city public safety personnel and
services from the nuisance and negligent operation of alarm systems while
providing the highest level of service to alarm users. (Ord. 221, 11-19-1985,
eff. 1-1-1986)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and terms are hereby defined as
follows:
ALARM SYSTEMS: An assembly of equipment or devices, either mechanically or
electrically operated, arranged or designed to signal the presence of a hazard
requiring urgent attention and to which public safety personnel are expected to
respond.
ALARM USER: The person, firm, partnership, corporation, company or organization
of any kind in control of any building, structure or facility wherein an alarm
system is maintained.
AUDIBLE ALARM: A device which, when activated, generates an audible sound on or
near the protected premises.
FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal eliciting a response by public safety personnel
when a situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist, which is caused
by the activation of the alarm system through mechanical failure, alarm
malfunction, improper installation or the inadvertence or misuse by the owner
or lessee of an alarm system or his employees or agent. "False alarms" do not
include alarms caused by weather conditions, power failure, or other causes
that are clearly beyond the control of the manufacturer or the user of the
alarm system. (Ord. 221, 11-19-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
5-5-3: ALARM SYSTEM REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice Posted: Every person maintaining an audible alarm shall post a
notice containing the names and telephone numbers of the persons to be notified
during any hour of the day or night that the alarm sounds. Such notice shall be
posted at the main entrance to such premises in such a location as to be
legible from the ground level adjacent to the building or kept currently
corrected and on file with the police or fire department. (Ord. 221, 11-19-
1985, eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 352, 6-20-2000)
   B.   Imitation Of Police Or Fire Sirens Prohibited: Audible alarms that
sound like police or fire sirens are prohibited.
   C.   Automatic Shutoff Required: Audible alarms shall have automatic shutoff
which will silence the signal within a period not to exceed fifteen (15)
minutes. (Ord. 221, 11-19-1985, eff. 1-1-1986)
   D.   Remote Monitoring Locations: Remote monitoring locations shall be
required to verify residential alarm signals prior to reporting them to the
fire service provided that the verification process does not delay the
reporting by more than ninety (90) seconds. (Ord. 384, 7-15-2003)
5-5-4: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Reports Required:
      1.   Alarm users shall provide, upon request and on an ongoing basis,
information including, but not limited to:
         a.   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of alarm user, alarm owner
(if different), and alarm servicer.
         b.   Type of alarm and areas protected.
         c.   Key holder or contact person in the event of alarm problems.
      2.   The alarm user shall, within ten (10) days of receipt of a "Notice
of False Alarm", complete and return the provided "False Alarm Report". This
report is to be returned to the appropriate city department (police or fire),
and must be completed for each and every alarm transmitted.
   B.   Penalties:
      1.   False Fire Alarms: A penalty of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
shall be paid to the city by the alarm user for each and every false fire
alarm, in excess of two (2), in any calendar year. (2003 Code)
      2.   All Other False Alarms: A penalty shall be paid to the city by the
alarm user for each false alarm, other than a false fire alarm, in excess of
three (3) in any calendar year. That penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for the fourth false alarm, seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for the fifth false
alarm and one-hundred dollars ($100.00) for the sixth and each succeeding false
alarm within the same calendar year.
      3.   Payment Of Penalties; Delinquencies: All penalties must be paid to
the city treasurer within thirty (30) days of notice by the city to the alarm
user. Failure to pay the penalty within thirty (30) days of notice will cause
the alarm user to be considered delinquent and subject to an additional fee
equal to ten percent (10%) of the penalty. Payment of delinquent penalties may
be enforced through civil action.
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   The United States government, the state, the county, the city or any
departments thereof are exempt from subsection B of this section.
      2.   The police or fire chief may excuse false alarms when there is
evidence that the alarm was a result of an effort or an order to upgrade,
install, or maintain an alarm system, or if one or more false alarms result
from the same malfunction within a five (5) day period. (Ord. 221, 11-19-1985,
eff. 1-1-1986; amd. Ord. 352, 6-20-2000; Ord. 555, 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 6
SKATEBOARDS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Operation Prohibitions And Restrictions
5-6-3: Exemptions From Provisions
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
OPERATE: To ride on and control the operation of a skateboard.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: All property owned by a body politic and corporate in the
state of Minnesota, including the state itself, and including public
authorities, cities, villages, townships and school districts, but excluding
roadways.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street, highway or road which is improved, designed
or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
SKATEBOARD: Includes any plank or board made of wood, metal, plastic,
fiberglass or other similar type material to which are attached wheels similar
to roller skate wheels. (1981 Code 915 § 1)
5-6-2: OPERATION PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To operate any skateboard on public property; or
   B.   To operate any skateboard upon a roadway; or
   C.   To operate any skateboard on private property of another within the
city without the prior written permission of the owner or person in lawful
possession of such property. (1981 Code 915 § 2)
5-6-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the chief of police or
any duly authorized official of the city shall have the authority to supervise
and regulate events or programs conducted by the city in which skateboards are
used.
   B.   The city council shall have the authority to designate city park areas
owned by the city that it shall deem available for such use. (1981 Code 915 §
3)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 915 § 4; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose And Findings
5-7-2: Definition
5-7-3: Targeted Residential Picketing Prohibited
5-7-4: Violation
5-7-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
The city has an interest in the protection of residential privacy within the
city, and protecting the well-being, tranquility and privacy of the home, which
is certainly of the highest order in a free and civilized society. The city
council further finds that, without resorting to targeted residential
picketing, ample opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in targeted
residential picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedom of speech
and expression. (Ord. 294, 7-6-1993)
5-7-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "targeted residential picketing" includes one
or more of the following activities:
   A.   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons carrying
written material within five hundred feet (500') of a residential dwelling,
which identifies the occupants of such residential dwelling by name,
occupation, photograph or in some other manner.
   B.   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons within five
hundred feet (500') of a residential dwelling who are shouting or otherwise
verbalizing protests which identify the occupants of such residential dwelling
by name, occupation or in some other manner.
   C.   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons within five
hundred feet (500') of a residential dwelling for the purpose of directing a
protest at the occupants of such residential dwelling unit.
   D.   Marching, standing or patrolling by one or more persons which
interferes with the ability of the occupants of a residential dwelling from
gaining access to, or egressing from, the property on which such residential
dwelling unit is located. (Ord. 294, 7-6-1993)
5-7-3: TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING PROHIBITED:
No persons shall engage in targeted residential picketing within the city.
(Ord. 294, 7-6-1993)
5-7-4: VIOLATION:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 294, 7-6-1993)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Obedience To Police
6-1-4: Alcoholic Beverages
6-1-5: Conflicting Provisions
6-1-6: Violations; Penalty
6-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulatory provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 169, known as the
highway traffic regulation act, as amended, is hereby adopted as a traffic
ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city
and are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this title as completely as
if set forth herein. One copy of the highway traffic regulation act is on file
in the office of the city clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. 219, 11-5-
1985; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the terms defined herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows:
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Any of the following vehicles when equipped and
identified according to law: a) a vehicle of a fire department; b) a publicly
owned police vehicle or a privately owned vehicle used by a police officer for
police work under agreement, express or implied, with the local authority to
which he is responsible; c) a vehicle of a licensed land emergency ambulance
service, whether publicly or privately owned; d) an emergency vehicle of a
municipal department or a public service corporation, approved by the
commissioner of public safety or the chief of police of a municipality; e) any
volunteer rescue squad operating pursuant to laws 1959, chapter 53; f) a
vehicle designated as an authorized emergency vehicle upon a finding by the
commissioner of public safety that designation of that vehicle is necessary to
the preservation of life or property or to the execution of emergency
governmental functions.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices and
including any device generally recognized as a "bicycle" though equipped with
two (2) front or rear wheels.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than fifteen (15)
passengers, including the driver, and used for the transportation of persons.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: Those areas of the city designated on the city's official
zoning map as B districts.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which the right of access of the owners or occupants of abutting lands and
other persons has been acquired and to which the owners or occupants of
abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the
same except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
city.
CROSSWALK: A. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included with the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing
by lines or other markings on the surface.
CUSTOM SERVICE VEHICLES: All vehicles used as well drilling machine, wood
sawing machine, cement mixer, rock crusher, road grader, ditch digger, or
elevating grader, refuse hauling truck, paving roller, portable generators,
welders and air compressors mounted on trailers and capable of being towed,
motor graders, caterpillars, and similar service equipment.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE: A motor vehicle with two (2) or three (3) wheels
that:
   A.   Has a saddle and fully operable pedals for human propulsion;
   B.   Meets the requirements of federal motor vehicle safety standards in
code of federal regulations, title 49, sections 571.01 et seq.; and
   C.   Has an electric motor that:
1. Has a power output of not more than one thousand (1,000) watts;
2. Is incapable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of more than twenty (20)
miles per hour;
3. Is incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when human power
alone is used to propel the vehicle at a speed of more than twenty (20) miles
per hour; and
4. Disengages or ceases to function when the vehicle's brakes are applied.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of
husbandry.
GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT: The greater of:
   A.   The unloaded weight of a vehicle or the unloaded weight of a truck
tractor and semitrailer combination, plus the weight of the load; or
   B.   The value specified by the manufacturer as the maximum gross weight or
gross vehicle weight rating.
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: Those areas of the city designated on the city's official
zoning map as I districts.
LANED HIGHWAY: A highway the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires. "Motor
vehicle" does not include a vehicle moved solely by human power.
MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS: Any part, accessory, attachment, or piece of equipment
commonly used on or in connection with a motor vehicle.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, including motor scooters and bicycles with motor attached, other
than those vehicles defined as "motorized bicycles" in this section, but
excluding a tractor.
MOTORIZED BICYCLE: A bicycle that is propelled by a motor of a piston
displacement capacity of fifty (50) cubic centimeters or less, and a maximum of
two (2) brake horsepower, which is capable of a maximum speed of not more than
thirty (30) miles per hour on a flat surface with not more than one percent
(1%) grade in any direction when the motor is engaged. "Motorized bicycle"
includes an "electric assisted bicycle" as defined in this section.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings, and devices not
inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning, or
guiding traffic.
ONE-WAY ROADWAY: A street or roadway designated and sign posted for one-way
traffic and on which all vehicles are required to move in one indicated
direction.
OWNER: A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot or in a wheelchair.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS: Those areas of the city designated on the city's
official zoning map as R districts.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of a street or highway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the sidewalk or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway", as used herein,
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times set apart as
a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: A motor vehicle used to transport pupils to or from a "school" as
defined in Minnesota statutes section 120A.22, or to or from school related
activities, by the school or a school district, or by someone under an
agreement with the school or a school district. A "school bus" does not include
a motor vehicle transporting children to or from school for which parents or
guardians receive direct compensation from a school district, a motor coach
operating under charter carrier authority, a transit bus providing services as
defined in Minnesota statutes section 174.22, subdivision 7, or a vehicle
otherwise qualifying as a type III vehicle under subsection E of this
definition, when the vehicle is properly registered and insured and being
driven by an employee or agent of a school district for nonscheduled
transportation. A "school bus" may be type A, type B, type C, or type D, or
type III as follows:
   A.   A "type A school bus" is a conversion or body constructed upon a van
type or cutaway front section vehicle with a left side driver's door, designed
for carrying more than ten (10) persons. This definition includes two (2)
classifications: type A-I, with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) over ten
thousand (10,000) pounds; and type A-II, with a GVWR of ten thousand (10,000)
pounds or less.
   B.   A "type B school bus" is a conversion or body constructed and installed
upon a van or front section vehicle chassis, or stripped chassis, with a gross
vehicle weight rating of more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds, designed for
carrying more than ten (10) persons. Part of the engine is beneath or behind
the windshield and beside the driver's seat. The entrance door is behind the
front wheels.
   C.   A "type C school bus" is a body installed upon a flat back cowl chassis
with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds,
designed for carrying more than ten (10) persons. All of the engine is in front
of the windshield, and the entrance door is behind the front wheels. A "type C
school bus" has a maximum length of forty five feet (45').
   D.   A "type D school bus" is a body installed upon a chassis, with the
engine mounted in the front, midship or rear, with a gross vehicle weight
rating of more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds, designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons. The engine may be behind the windshield and beside the
driver's seat; it may be at the rear of the bus, behind the rear wheels, or
midship between the front and rear axles. The entrance door is ahead of the
front wheels. A "type D school bus" has a maximum length of forty five feet
(45').
   E.   "Type III school buses" and "type III head start buses" are restricted
to passenger cars, station wagons, vans, and buses having a maximum
manufacturer's rated seating capacity of ten (10) or fewer people, including
the driver, and a gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand (10,000) pounds
or less. In this subsection, "gross vehicle weight rating" means the value
specified by the manufacturer as the loaded weight of a single vehicle. A "type
III" school bus and "type III head start bus" must not be outwardly equipped
and identified as a type A, B, C, or D school bus or type A, B, C, or D head
start bus. A van or bus converted to a seating capacity of ten (10) or fewer
and placed in service on or after August 1, 1999, must have been originally
manufactured to comply with the passenger safety standards.
SEMITRAILER: A vehicle of the trailer type so designed and used in conjunction
with a truck tractor that a considerable part of its own weight or that of its
load rests upon and is carried by the truck tractor and includes a trailer
drawn by a truck tractor semitrailer combination.
SERVICE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle owned and operated by a person, firm or
corporation engaged in a business which includes the repairing or servicing of
vehicles. The term also includes snow removal and road maintenance equipment
not operated by or under contract to the state or governmental subdivision.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
STOP: Complete cessation from movement.
STOPPING: Any halting, even momentarily, of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of any way or place
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right,
for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof at the entrances to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles or other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street or highway for purposes of
travel.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
TRAILER: Any vehicle designed for carrying property or passengers on its own
structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle but does not include a trailer
drawn by a truck tractor semitrailer combination or an auxiliary axle on a
motor vehicle which carries a portion of the weight of the motor vehicle to
which it is attached.
TRUCK: Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
TRUCK TRACTOR: A. A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and load so drawn; and
   B.   A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles
used exclusively for transporting motor vehicles or boats and capable of
carrying motor vehicles or boats on its own structure.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway (excepting devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks).
WRECKER: A motor vehicle having a gross vehicle weight of eight thousand
(8,000) pounds or more, equipped with a crane and winch and further equipped to
control the movement of the towed vehicle. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985; amd. 2003
Code)
6-1-3: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any peace officer invested by law with the authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-1-4: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Drinking In Vehicles: No person shall drink or consume intoxicating
liquors or nonintoxicating malt liquors in any motor vehicle when such vehicle
is upon a public highway. (1981 Code 1111 § 1)
   B.   Open Containers:
      1.   No person shall have in his possession on his person while in a
private motor vehicle upon a public highway, any bottle or receptacle
containing intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating malt liquor which has been
opened, or the seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed. (1981 Code 1111 § 2)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any private motor vehicle or
the driver, if the owner be not then present in the motor vehicle, to keep or
allow to be kept in a motor vehicle when such vehicle is upon the public
highway any bottle or receptacle containing intoxicating liquors or
nonintoxicating malt liquors which has been opened, or the seal broken, or the
contents of which have been partially removed except when such bottle or
receptacle shall be kept in the trunk of the motor vehicle when such vehicle is
equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of the vehicle not normally
occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor vehicle is not equipped with
a trunk. A utility compartment or glove compartment shall be deemed to be
within the area occupied by the driver and passengers. (1981 Code 1111 § 3)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Whoever violates the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 1111 §§ 4, 5; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Where a provision of any other ordinance of the city conflicts with the
provisions of this title, the provisions of this title shall prevail. (Ord.
219, 11-5-1985)
6-1-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Petty Misdemeanor: Unless otherwise declared by Minnesota statutes
chapter 169 with respect to particular offenses, it is a petty misdemeanor for
any person to perform any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by
this title, except a violation which is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
   B.   Misdemeanor; Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this title
may be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Parking Prohibited In Certain Places
6-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-3: Parking For Handicapped Persons
6-2-4: Parking During Snowfall
6-2-5: Method Of Parking
6-2-6: Parking Lots
6-2-7: Parkways, Parks And Public Grounds
6-2-8: Junk Cars
6-2-9: Trucks And Custom Service Vehicles
6-2-10: Recreational Camping Vehicles
6-2-11: Illegally Parked Vehicles; Removal, Impoundment And Redemption
6-2-12: Tampering With Police Markings Prohibited
6-2-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES:
No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places: (Ord.
513, 9-5-2017)
   A.   On or blocking a sidewalk, bikeway or pedestrianway or blocking a
driveway, bikeway or pedestrianway entrance.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant, Fire Department sprinkler
connection or Fire Department standpipe connection.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a street, roadway or
highway; between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
   H.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy
five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   J.   Alongside or opposite any street, roadway or highway excavation or
obstruction when such stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
   K.   On the street, roadway or highway side of any vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street.
   L.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street, roadway or
highway or within a highway tunnel, except as otherwise provided by ordinance.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 219, 11-5-
1985)
   N.   Within ten feet (10') of a clearly visible, residential mailbox which
is located directly adjacent to curbside or on a public right-of-way between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except
Sundays and holidays. (Ord. 513, 9-5-2017)
6-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Twenty Four Hour Maximum Parking Time: No vehicle shall be parked on
any public street for more than twenty four (24) continuous hours. (Ord. 267,
8-1-1989)
   B.   Unattended Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall leave a motor vehicle unattended on any road, street
or highway in the City with the engine running.
      2.   No person shall leave a motor vehicle parked unattended in the City
on a street, road or highway, in any parking area, or in any public or private
driveway, with the key in the ignition or the ignition unlocked.
      3.   Whenever any police officer shall find any such motor vehicle
standing in violation of the foregoing provision, such police officer is
authorized and directed to remove the keys from such vehicle and retain the
same until called for by the owner of said motor vehicle.
   C.   Parking To Interfere With Traffic Prohibited: No automobile or other
vehicle shall occupy any road or street in the City so as to interfere with or
interrupt the passage of other cars or vehicles.
   D.   Parking On Private Property; Consent Of Owner: No person shall park or
leave a motor vehicle standing upon the private property of another person
without first receiving consent of the owner of such property.
   E.   Special Parking Areas: Special parking areas may be designated by the
City Council from time to time by resolution for truck parking or for taxicab
parking, and when so designated, no other vehicles may stand, stop, or park in
such areas.
   F.   Repair Of Vehicle On Street 1 : It is unlawful for any person to
service, repair, assemble or dismantle any vehicle parked upon a street, or
attempt to do so, except to service such vehicle with gasoline or oil or to
provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no event for more than six (6) hours.
(Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
   G.   Display Of Vehicle For Sale: No person shall park a vehicle on any
street, other public property or commercially zoned private property, for the
purpose of advertising or displaying such vehicle for sale. (Ord. 285, 6-2-
1992)
   H.   Nighttime Parking Prohibited: No vehicle shall be parked on any public
street between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., between November 1 and March 31. The property located at 528 Fremont
Avenue shall be exempted from this subsection. (Ord. 411, 10-3-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-2-8C of this chapter.
6-2-3: PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   A.   Parking Restrictions: No person shall park a motor vehicle in a parking
space designated and reserved for the physically handicapped, on either private
or public property, unless:
      1.   That person is physically handicapped in a manner rendering it
difficult and burdensome for such person to walk or such person is operating
the vehicle under the direction of such a physically handicapped person; and
      2.   The vehicle visibly bears or contains the certificate or insignia
issued to physically handicapped persons by the Minnesota Department of Public
Safety pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 169.345, subdivision 2.
   B.   Signs Posted: Notice of such designation of handicapped parking spaces
shall be given by the posting of appropriate signs.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: In any prosecution charging a violation of this
section, proof of the identity of the registered owner of the particular
vehicle described in the citation or complaint at the time of the violation
shall create a prima facie presumption that the individual was the person who
parked such vehicle at the point where the violation occurred.
   D.   Violations: A violation of this section shall constitute a petty
misdemeanor. Vehicles in violation may be removed, impounded and kept in
custody under the direction of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-2-4: PARKING DURING SNOWFALL:
   A.   Parking Time Restricted: No person shall allow any vehicle to park or
stand upon any street or road in the City for more than thirty (30) minutes
during the time intervening between a snowfall of two inches (2") or more and
the plowing or removal thereof.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any vehicle stopped, parked, abandoned or otherwise
unattended in violation of this section is hereby declared to be an obstruction
of City streets and shall be declared to be a nuisance.
   C.   Towing Of Vehicle: In the event any vehicle is stopped, parked,
abandoned or otherwise left unattended in violation of the provisions of this
section, any police officer of the City or the City Public Works Superintendent
is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed any such vehicle and to
have such vehicle towed or otherwise removed to any public or private garage or
parking area and stored in such garage or parking area until claimed by the
owner as provided in subsection 6-2-11C of this chapter. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
   D.   Authority To Issue Citation: The City Public Works Superintendent is
authorized to issue citations for violations of this section. (Ord. 248, 12-15-
1987)
6-2-5: METHOD OF PARKING:
Any vehicle parked at any time on any public street in any part of the city
shall be parked with the right hand side parallel to the edge of the paved or
improved road and not more than one foot (1') from the edge of the paved or
improved road, leaving at least four feet (4') between parked vehicles except
where marks or signs in the street indicate that cars shall be parked at an
angle. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-2-6: PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Speed Limit: No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any parking lot
or parking area in the city, whether privately or publicly owned, at a speed
greater than is safe and reasonable under the conditions of traffic then
existing therein, and in no event shall any such vehicle be operated in excess
of a speed of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   B.   Careful Driving:
      1.   All operation and driving of motor vehicles on such parking lots or
parking areas shall be done in a careful manner so that no sudden starting or
erratic movement of such vehicle is deliberately engaged in by the driver.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle
upon such parking lot or parking areas in any manner that would constitute
careless driving if done on a public street.
      3.   No person shall engage in any drag racing or exhibition driving on
any such parking lot or parking area.
   C.   Uniform Parking Required: Parking of vehicles on such parking lots or
parking areas shall conform to the markings of stalls or positions for parking
which are designated on the surface of the parking area, and no vehicles shall
be parked or allowed to stand in any area of such parking lot or parking area
which has been designated or is used as a fire lane or a lane for moving
traffic so that such parking will interfere with fire prevention or
firefighting or with the movement of traffic therein.
   D.   Traffic Control Signs:
      1.   Signs Posted: The city police department may post signs at any
entrance to a parking lot from a public street which shall designate one-way
traffic for entrance and exit, and the driver of any vehicle entering or
leaving such lot shall comply with any signs so posted.
      2.   Compliance Required: Where a privately or publicly owned parking lot
or area in the city has traffic control signs within said lot or area
indicating traffic direction, speed, yield or stop, the driver of any vehicle
upon such lot or parking area shall comply with any such signs.
   E.   Notice Of Collision: In the event that any person who drives a motor
vehicle upon such parking lot or parking area becomes involved in a collision
between the vehicle he is driving and any other vehicle or vehicles parking
upon said lot or area, such driver shall leave a notice upon each unattended
vehicle with which he has collided, giving his name, address and license
number. Failure on the part of any person to comply with this subsection shall
constitute a violation of this title. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-2-7: PARKWAYS, PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS:
The operator, driver, owner or person in charge of any vehicle used or driven
over or upon the streets and roads of the city must observe all of the
following regulations upon all parkways and within the limits of all parks and
upon any publicly owned grounds in the city:
   A.   Parking Within Spaces; Unobstructed View Required: No vehicle shall be
left standing or parked except in designated parking spaces, and vehicles must
be parked so that an unobstructed view into the interior of the vehicle may be
had at all times, and no curtains, papers or coverings of any kind shall cover
or conceal the front, rear, or side windows of any parked vehicle.
   B.   Parking On Footpaths Prohibited: No vehicle shall be left standing or
parked upon any footpath or in any area in which parking is restricted. (Ord.
219, 11-5-1985)
   C.   Prohibited Hours 1 : No person shall be in any park, and no person
shall remain in or leave any vehicle in any park, or upon any parkway or public
grounds between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. of the following morning. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-4-2 of this code.
6-2-8: JUNK CARS 1 :
   A.   Definition: "Junk car" means any motor vehicle which: 1) for a period
of thirty (30) days or more is not in operable condition; or 2) for a period of
thirty (30) days or more is partially dismantled; or 3) is used for the sale of
parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other vehicles; or 4)
is kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any kind; or 5) for a period
of thirty (30) days or more is not properly licensed for operation within the
state.
   B.   Parking And Storage Restricted: No person shall park, keep, place, or
store or permit the parking or storage of a junk car on a public street or
alley, or on any private lands or premises which he owns, occupies, or controls
unless it shall be within a building on such private premises.
   C.   Repair, Service Or Maintenance Restricted: No person shall service,
repair, replace parts or do maintenance work on a junk car on a public street 2
nor on any private lands or premises unless it shall be within a building on
such private premises.
   D.   Other Provisions: Nothing herein contained shall in any way be deemed
to permit the keeping, storing, or parking of junk cars or the servicing,
repairing, replacing of parts on, or maintenance of, junk cars in violation of
the provisions of the city zoning ordinance, as amended 3 , or of any other
ordinance of the city. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 12-1D-13-3F3 of this code.
2 3. See also subsection 6-2-2F of this chapter.
3 4. See subsection 12-1D-13-3F3 of this code.
6-2-9: TRUCKS AND CUSTOM SERVICE VEHICLES:
   A.   Prohibited Parking Of Semitrailers: It is unlawful to park a
semitrailer upon any street, city owned parking lot, or other public property.
   B.   Parking In Residential Districts: It is unlawful to park a semitrailer,
truck tractor, or a combination thereof, or any "custom service vehicle" as
defined by this title, or any truck in excess of nine thousand (9,000) pounds'
gross vehicle weight within an area zoned as a residential district except for
the purpose of loading or unloading the same if such vehicle is in the process
of making a delivery. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-2-10: RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLES 1 :
   A.   Definition: The term "recreational camping vehicle" means any of the
following:
      1.   Camping Trailer: A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed
for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      2.   Motor Home: A motor vehicle designed, constructed, or used to
provide movable living quarters for recreational use.
      3.   Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      4.   Travel Trailer: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and
vacation uses, permanently identified "travel trailer" by the manufacturer of
the trailer.
   B.   Parking Time Limit: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or
park a recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any street or
right of way for a continuous period in excess of twenty four (24) hours
without the written permission of the chief of police. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
 
Notes
  1. See chapter 6 of this title for additional provisions regarding
1 recreational vehicles; see also section 12-1D-13-5 of this code for parking
  and storage regulations.
6-2-11: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; REMOVAL, IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Removal, Towing Of Vehicle:
      1.   Authority To Remove Vehicle: When any police officer of the city
finds a vehicle standing upon a street, roadway or highway in violation of any
of the provisions of this title, such officer is hereby authorized to move such
vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move
said vehicle to a position not in violation of any section of this title.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Removal Required: Any vehicle, wherever found,
whether on public or private property, in violation of this title or other
ordinances of the city or the laws of the state is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. Any police officer of the city may require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move said vehicle to a position not in violation of
any section of this title, or said vehicle may be removed, under the direction
or at the request of a police officer, to any public or private garage or
parking area until claimed by the owner thereof as hereafter provided.
      3.   Damaged, Junked Vehicles: Any vehicle found upon the streets of the
city in such a damaged condition or state of disrepair that it cannot be driven
and which, in the opinion of a police officer, constitutes an obstruction of
the street, may be removed and impounded by the police department to a place of
storage; provided, that if the owner or operator has requested, such vehicle
may be towed to the owner's own garage or any other garage.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: As soon as practical after the removal of said
vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this title, the city police
department shall notify, in writing, the person known to be the owner of such
vehicle by the registration thereof, of the following facts:
      1.   A general description of the vehicle together with the license
number.
      2.   The approximate time and the reason for removal and the place to
which removed.
   C.   Redemption Of Vehicle:
      1.   Before any vehicle so removed and stored shall be reclaimed, the
owner or other claimant shall satisfactorily identify himself and establish his
right, title or interest to said vehicle and the right to possession thereof
and shall further pay all costs or charges in connection with the removal and
storage of such vehicle and notice thereof.
      2.   The payment of such charges shall not relieve the owner or other
person responsible for such violation from the payment of any fine or penalty
for violations of the provisions of this title or any other applicable
ordinance of the city or laws of the state. It shall be unlawful for any person
to reclaim the vehicle so removed and stored without first paying all of the
said costs, charges or penalties. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-2-12: TAMPERING WITH POLICE MARKINGS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise obliterate any mark
or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a police officer for
the purpose of measuring the length of time such vehicle has been parked. (Ord.
219, 11-5-1985)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Through Streets And Stop Intersections
6-3-2: Through Streets And Yield Intersections
6-3-3: Parking Prohibitions And Restrictions
6-3-4: Obedience To State And County Signs
6-3-1: THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS:
The following streets and intersections shall be through streets and stop
intersections, and when stop signs are posted at such intersections, traffic
approaching such signs shall stop as required by law:
   A.   Through Streets And Stop Streets Designated:
Through Streets Stop Streets
Through Streets                  Stop Streets
Bachelor Avenue                  Lansford Lane
Butler Avenue                    View Lane
Centre Pointe Curve              Centre Pointe Boulevard
Cheri Lane                       Cygnet Lane
Clement Street - Sylvandale Road Emerson Avenue, eastbound
Concord Way                      Lockwood Drive
Copperfield Drive                Stone Road
Decorah Lane                     Ocala Lane
Delaware Avenue                  Abbey Way
Delaware Avenue                  Copperfield Drive
Delaware Avenue                  Dodge Lane
Delaware Avenue                  Huber Drive
Delaware Avenue                  Mendota Heights Road
Delaware Avenue                  Mendota Road
Downing Street                   Winston Court
Emerson Avenue                   Knollwood Lane, northbound
Emerson Avenue                   Knollwood Lane, southbound
Emerson Avenue                   Medora Road, northbound
Emerson Avenue                   Medora Road, southbound
Hilltop Road                     Hilltop Court
Hilltop Road                     Wachtler Avenue
Huber Drive                      Apache Court
Huber Drive                      Apache Lane
Huber Drive                      Bent Tree Lane
Huber Drive                      Cheyenne Lane
Huber Drive                      Copperfield Drive
Huber Drive                      Decorah Lane
Huber Drive                      Hampshire Drive
Huber Drive                      High Pointe Road
Huber Drive                      Pondview Drive
Lake Drive                       Kressin Avenue
Lake Drive                       Rogers Avenue
Lake Drive                       Swan Drive
Main Street                      Karl Hohenstein Place, southbound
Maple Park Drive                 Sylvandale Road
Marie Avenue                     Callahan Place, east intersection
Marie Avenue                     Callahan Place, west intersection
Marie Avenue                     Eagle Ridge Road
Marie Avenue                     Lilac Lane
Marie Avenue                     Overlook Lane
Marie Avenue                     Ridgewood Drive
Marie Avenue                     Rolling Green Curve
Marie Avenue                     Summit Lane, northbound
Marie Avenue                     Summit Lane, southbound
Marie Avenue                     Sutton Lane
Marie Avenue                     Trail Road
Marie Avenue                     Wachtler Avenue
Marie Avenue                     Walsh Lane
Mendakota Court                  Mendakota Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Arbor Court
Mendota Heights Road             Bridgeview Court
Mendota Heights Road             Canton Court
Mendota Heights Road             Concord Way
Mendota Heights Road             Enterprise Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Hampshire Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Haverton Road
Mendota Heights Road             Huber Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Lake Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Lockwood Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Medallion Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Mendota Heights Circle
Mendota Heights Road             Morson Circle
Mendota Heights Road             Northland Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Park Lane
Mendota Heights Road             Pond Circle East
Mendota Heights Road             Pond Circle West
Mendota Heights Road             Pondhaven Lane
Mendota Heights Road             Stratford Road
Mendota Heights Road             Whitfield Drive
Mendota Heights Road             Winthrop Court
Mendota Road                     Knob Road
Mendota Road                     Oak Street
Mendota Road                     Warrior Drive
Northland Drive                  Enterprise Drive
Oak Street                       Mulberry Lane
Pagel Road, southbound           Keokuk Lane
Pagel Road, southbound           Pagel Road, northbound
Staples Avenue                   Hingham Circle
Staples Avenue                   Somerset Road
Swan Drive                       Bluebill Drive
Sylvandale Road                  Ivy Falls Avenue
Sylvandale Road                  Woodridge Drive
Valley Curve                     Wachtler Avenue
Wachtler Road                    Deer Trail Point
Wachtler Road                    Evergreen Knoll
Wagon Wheel Trail                Cygnet Lane
Warrior Drive                    High Ridge Circle
Warrior Drive                    Sibley Court
Warrior Drive                    Sibley High School driveway
1st Avenue                       Clement Street
1st Avenue                       Laura Street
3rd Avenue                       Vandall Street
 
(Ord. 197, 6-1-1982; amd. Ord. 214, 9-17-1985; Ord. 227, 6-3-1986; Ord. 230, 3-
17-1987; Ord. 258, 10-20-1988; Ord. 260, 12-20-1988; Ord. 265, 6-6-1989; Ord.
268, 10-17-1989; Ord. 292, 7-6-1993; Ord. 297, 12-7-1993; Ord. 312, 2-18-1997;
Ord. 323, 10-20-1998; Ord. 325, 11-3-1998; Ord. 354, 8-1-2000; 2003 Code; Ord.
450, 5-7-2013; Ord. 500, 7-6-2016; Ord. 515, 10-17-2017; Ord. 517, 11-21-2017;
Ord. 529, 8-7-2018; Ord. 531, 9-4-2018)
   B.   All-Way Stop Intersections:
Copperfield Drive and Fieldstone Drive
Decorah Lane and Pontiac Place
Delaware Avenue and Marie Avenue
Dorset Road and Mears Avenue
Dorset Road and Staples Avenue
Ivy Hill Drive and Maple Park Drive
Lexington Avenue and Mendota Heights Road
Maple Park Drive and Sylvandale Road
South Lane and Mendota Road
Sylvandale Road and Arcadia Drive
Sylvandale Road and Ivy Falls Avenue
(Ord. 197, 6-1-1982; amd. Ord. 212, 11-8-1984; Ord. 240, 9-1-1987; Ord. 265, 6-
6-1989; Ord. 320, 8-4-1998; Ord. 335, 10-19-1999; Ord. 354, 8-1-2000; Ord. 517,
11-21-2017; Ord. 529, 8-7-2018; Ord. 531, 9-4-2018)
6-3-2: THROUGH STREETS AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
The following streets and intersections shall be yield intersections, and when
yield signs are posted at such intersections, vehicles approaching a yield sign
shall proceed as required by law:
Through Streets Yield Streets
Through Streets  Yield Streets
Caren Road       Lilac Lane
Cherry Hill Road Ivy Lane
Chippewa Avenue  Butler Avenue
Chippewa Avenue  Ellen Street
Chippewa Avenue  Fremont Street
Chippewa Avenue  Hiawatha Street
Chippewa Avenue  John Street
Chippewa Avenue  Junction Lane
Chippewa Avenue  Miriam Street
Chippewa Avenue  Simar Street
Decorah Lane     Apache Street, northbound
Decorah Lane     Apache Street, southbound
Decorah Lane     Nashua Lane
Decorah Lane     Pueblo Drive
Douglas Road     Vicki Lane
Emerson Avenue   Knollwood Lane
Fieldstone Drive Pondview Drive
Hilltop Road     Valley Curve, southeast intersection
James Road       Douglas Road, eastbound
James Road       Douglas Road, westbound
Keokuk Lane      Apache Street, northbound
Keokuk Lane      Apache Street, southbound
Keokuk Lane      Pueblo Drive
Knollwood Lane   Medora Road, northbound
Lilac Lane       Douglas Road, eastbound
Lilac Lane       Douglas Road, westbound
Patricia Street  Tom Thumb Drive
Pondview Drive   Watersedge Terrace
Stanwich Lane    Lansford Lane, northbound
Stanwich Lane    Lansford Lane, southbound
Summit Lane      Avanti Drive
 
(Ord. 197, 6-1-1982; amd. Ord. 206, 2-21-1984; Ord. 214, 9-17-1985; Ord. 227,
6-3-1986; Ord. 230, 3-17-1987; Ord. 240, 9-1-1987; Ord. 265, 6-6-1989; Ord.
354, 8-1-2000; Ord. 360, 6-19-2001; Ord. 529, 8-7-2018)
6-3-3: PARKING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Unless otherwise defined herein, for the purpose of this
section, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this subsection:
      MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle.
      PERSON: Means and includes individuals, partnerships, associations or
corporations.
   B.   Violation: Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1981 Code 1112 §§ 2, 3)
   C.   Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets: No person shall park or leave
standing any motor vehicle on the following streets or portions thereof in the
City:
Street Side Location
Street                         Side              Location
                               North             Between Pilot Knob Road and
Acacia Boulevard                                 Highway 13
                               South             Between Pilot Knob Road and 75
                                                 feet east of Pilot Knob Road
                                                 Beginning at the south side of
                                                 the southernmost driveway and
                                                 extending on the west side of
                                                 the street southerly around
                                                 the curve, at its intersection
                                                 with Centre Pointe Drive for a
                                                 distance of 200 feet and
                                                 extending on the east side of
                                                 the street to the west side of
                                                the first driveway on Centre
Centre Pointe Boulevard                          Pointe Drive, and prohibiting
                                                 parking from within 30 feet of
                                                 either side of the driveways
                                                 for the Centre Pointe V
                                                 building, the west driveway of
                                                 the Centre Pointe IV building,
                                                 the west driveway of the
                                                 Centre Pointe II building and
                                                 the south driveway of the
                                                 Centre Pointe I building
                               West              30 feet north of Centre Pointe
                                                 Circle
Copperfield Drive              Either            Beginning at Delaware Avenue
                                                 and extending 150 feet west
Crown Point Frontage Road      Either            From Highway 110 to Crown
                                                 Point Drive
Delaware Avenue (County Road   West              From Interstate 494 to Emerson
63)                                              Avenue
                                                 Beginning at the north
                                                 property line of the Old Fire
Dodd Road (TH 149)             East              Hall Site, 2144 Dodd Road, to
                                                 the north property line of
                                                 2150 Dodd Road
Enterprise Drive               North             Between Mendota Heights Road
                                                 and Pilot Knob Road
                                                 30 feet north and south of
                                                 northernmost entrance radii to
Lake Drive                     West              St. Thomas Academy marked with
                                                 "No Parking" signs and yellow
                                                 paint
Lemay Lake Road                West              From Mendota Heights Road to
                                                 Highway 13
Lemay Shores Drive             West              Lemay Lake Road to end
                               North             Between Sutton Lane and
                                                 Delaware Avenue
                               North             Beginning at Lexington Avenue
                                                 and extending 240 feet east
                               North             Between Victoria Road and 75
                                                 feet west of Lilac Lane
                               South             Beginning at Dodd Road and
                                                 extending 250 feet west
                                                 50 feet wide, centered on the
                               South             pedestrian crosswalk located
                                                 across from Ridgewood Drive
                               South             Beginning at Lexington Avenue
Marie Avenue                                     and extending 75 feet east
                               South             Within 75 feet on either side
                                                 of Walsh Lane
                               South             Beginning at Victoria Road and
                                                 extending 200 feet west
                               South             Beginning at Victoria Road and
                                                 extednign 300 feet east
                               Both              Within 75 feet on either side
                                                 of Eagle Ridge Drive
                                                 Within 75 feet of the
                               Both              crosswalk 700 feet east of I-
                                                 35E
                               Either            Within 70 feet on either side
                                                 of Trail Road
Mary Adele Avenue              North             Between Timmy Street and
                                                 Patricia Street
Mendakota Drive                North             Between Dodd Road (TH 149) and
                                                 Mendakota Court
                                                 Beginning at the east line of
                               North             1031 Mendota Heights Road's
                                                 driveway and extending to the
                                                 east 150 feet
                                                 50 feet on either side of the
                               North             driveway for 1455 Mendota
                                                 Heights Road
Mendota Heights Road                             Between and to within 100 feet
                               Either            east or west of the 2 driveway
                                                 entrances to the Friendly
                                                 Hills Middle School
                               Either            Between TH 55 and Medallion
                                                 Drive
                               Either            From Enterprise Drive to
                                                 Northland Drive
                               North             From 950 feet east of Warrior
                                                 Drive to Delaware Avenue
                               North             From Oak Street to 450 feet
Mendota Road (formerly Highway                   west of Warrior Drive
110 Frontage Road)             North             30 feet east and west of
                                                 Warrior Drive
                               South             From Oak Street to Delaware
                                                 Avenue
                                                 Extending south from that part
                               East              of Mendota Heights Road lying
                                                 east of TH 55 for 850 feet
                                                 south
Northland Drive                                  From Mendota Heights Road
                               West              lying east of TH 55 for 480
                                                 feet south
                               Either            From 250 feet east and west of
                                                 Pilot Knob Road
Pueblo Lane                    West              Between Decorah Lane and
                                                 Mohican Lane
Riverside Lane                 West (odd number) All of Riverside Lane
                               North             Beginning at Dodd Road and
South Plaza Drive                                extending 200 feet east
                               South             Between Dodd Road and South
                                                 Plaza Way
State Highway 13                                 
                                                 Between 750 feet and 1150 feet
                               North             west of Lexington Avenue (CR
Victoria Curve                                   43)
                                                 Between Lexington Avenue (CR
                               South             43) and 500 feet west of
                                                 Lexington Avenue (CR 43)
                               East              From Diane Lane to Lexington
                                                 Avenue
Victoria Road                  West              From Douglas Drive to Marie
                                                 Avenue
                               West              From Stratford Road to
                                                 Lexington Avenue
                               North             From Cygnet Lane to Wagon
                                                 Wheel Court
Wagon Wheel Trail              North             From the 35E Bridge to
                                                 Lexington Avenue
                               South             From Dodd Road (TH 149) to
                                                 Lexington Avenue
                                                 From the north side of the Two
                               Both              Rivers High School driveway
                                                 north around the cul-de-sac
                                                 50 feet wide, centered on the
                               East              pedestrian crosswalk located
                                                 across from and just north of
                                                 High Ridge Circle
Warrior Drive                                    50 feet wide, centered on the
                               East              pedestrian crosswalk located
                                                 across from and just north of
                                                 Sibley Court
                                                 From the south side of the Two
                               East              Rivers High School driveway
                                                 south 75 feet
                               West              From 600 feet south of the
                                                 cul-de-sac to Mendota Road
 
(1981 Code 1112 § 1)
   D.   Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours: No person shall park or leave
standing any motor vehicle on the following streets in the City, during the
following hours, on the following days:
      7:00 A.M. TO 2:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY
 
Street                             Side Location
High Ridge Circle and Sibley Court     Within 30 feet of their intersections
Warrior Drive                      West North 600 feet
 
      8:00 A.M. TO 3:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY
 
Street            Side  Location
High Ridge Circle South From Warrior Drive to the west edge of 588 High Ridge
                        Circle
 
   E.   Seasonal Parking Restrictions: No person shall park or leave standing
any motor vehicle on the following streets in the City, during the following
periods of time:
      MAY 1 TO JULY 31
 
Street            Side Location
None at this time      
 
   F.   Loading zone: No person shall park or leave standing any motor vehicle
other than expeditious loading and unloading during the following hours, on the
following days:
      7:00 A.M. to 2:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY
 
Street       Side  Location
Maple Street North Dodd Road (TH 149) extending 165 feet east
 
(Ord. 215, 9-17-1985; amd. Ord. 286, 7-7-1992; Ord. 287, 10-6-1992; Ord. 291,
6-1-1993; Ord. 293, 7-6-1993; Ord. 298, 6-21-1994; Ord. 309, 6-18-1996; Ord.
310, 7-2-1996; Ord. 314, 7-15-1997; Ord. 316, 10-21-1997; Ord. 327, 2-2-1999;
Ord. 369, 5-7-2002; Ord. 370, 6-4-2002; Ord. 371, 6-4-2002; Ord. 374, 1-21-
2003; Ord. 387a, 11-4-2003; Ord. 393, 6-1-2004; Ord. 396, 9-7-2004; Ord. 397,
9-21-2004; Ord. 427, 11-17-2009; Ord. 433, 2-15-2011; Ord. 435, 4-19-2011; Ord.
445, 5-15-2012; Ord. 449, 5-7-2013; Ord. 461, 5-6-2014; Ord. 481, 7-7-2015;
Ord. 486, 9-1-2015; Ord. 492, 2-16-2016; Ord. 504, 8-2-2016; Ord. 507, 1-17-
2017; Ord. 514, 9-5-2017; Ord. 523, 6-5-2018; Ord. 524, 6-5-2018; Ord. 541, 5-
21-2019; Ord. 554, 4-7-2020; Ord. 575, 5-16-2023; Ord. 577, 5-16-2023; Ord.
578, 7-18-2023; 580, 9-19-2023)
6-3-4: OBEDIENCE TO STATE AND COUNTY SIGNS:
In addition to the foregoing traffic control signs, all traffic control signs
duly installed on County and State highways by the proper approving authority
shall be obeyed. (Ord. 197, 6-1-1982)
CHAPTER 4
SEASONAL RESTRICTIONS AND WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Authority To Prohibit Vehicle Operation; Signs Posted
6-4-3: Seasonal Restrictions And Weight Limits Established
6-4-4: Exemptions From Provisions
6-4-5: Violation; Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
A "vehicle", as used in this chapter, is defined as including all motor
vehicles, trucks, commercial vehicles, horse trailers and trailers of all kinds
or any object or contrivances being moved on wheels of any kind. (1981 Code
1105 § 2)
6-4-2: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT VEHICLE OPERATION; SIGNS POSTED:
   A.   The Public Works Director may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon
any street or highway or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles to be
operated thereon whenever any such street or highway, by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic conditions, will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of such vehicles thereon is prohibited or
the permissible weights thereof reduced.
   B.   The Public Works Director shall erect or cause to be erected and
maintained, signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end
of that portion of any street or highway affected thereby. Said prohibition or
restriction shall not be effective unless and until such signs are erected and
shall continue thereafter until the Public Works Director causes such signs to
be removed. (1981 Code 1105 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
6-4-3: SEASONAL RESTRICTIONS AND WEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Except where other restrictions are imposed as provided in section
6-4-2  of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation shall operate any
vehicle or combination of vehicles upon any street, road or highway under the
jurisdiction of the city during the period where the gross weight of said
vehicle together with the load thereon exceeds eight thousand (8,000) pounds
per axle. (Ord. 533, 9-17-2018; amd. Ord. 599, 2-4-2025)
6-4-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Public Utility Vehicles: There shall be excepted and exempt from the
provisions of section
6-4-3 of this chapter emergency vehicles of public utilities used incidental to
making repairs to its plan or equipment.
   B.   Truck Routes: The provisions of section
6-4-3 of this chapter shall not apply to routes, streets, or highways
designated by resolution of the City Council as truck routes and which are
identified as such by signs and markings to that effect. (1981 Code 1105 § 1)
   C.   Special Permit: For reasons of hardship or other good cause shown, a
special permit may be issued by the Public Works Director authorizing vehicles
which would otherwise be prohibited under the provisions of section
6-4-3 of this chapter from traveling over certain streets, roads or highways to
travel over such streets, roads or highways on a prescribed route for the
purpose of making deliveries to a home, commercial or industrial establishment.
Such permit may be conditioned upon the giving of security in sufficient amount
to compensate the City for any injury or damage to any street, road, or highway
caused by the operation of such vehicle or combination of vehicles thereon.
(1981 Code 1105 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
6-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1981 Code 1105 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Operation Of Bicycles
6-5-2: Bicycle Equipment
6-5-3: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
6-5-4: Violation; Penalty
6-5-1: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Generally: Every person riding a bicycle upon a street, alley or public
highway situated in the city shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle under the
laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the
traffic ordinances of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as
to special regulations in this section and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
   B.   Manner Of Riding: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   C.   Number Of Riders: No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designed and equipped, except: 1) on a
baby seat attached to the bicycle; provided, that the baby seat is equipped
with a harness to hold the child securely in the seat and that protection is
provided against the child's feet hitting the spokes of the wheel; or 2) in a
seat attached to the bicycle operator.
   D.   Areas Of Riding:
      1.   Roadways:
         a.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street, alley, or roadway
shall ride as near to the right hand side thereof as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction. If a bicycle is traveling on a shoulder of a roadway, the bicycle
shall travel in the same direction as adjacent vehicular traffic.
         b.   Persons riding bicycles upon a street, alley or roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast except on paths or parts of streets, alleys, or
roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      2.   Bicycle Paths: Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a street, alley or roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and
shall not use such street, alley or roadway. An individual operating a bicycle
on a bikeway shall leave a safe distance when overtaking a bicycle or
individual proceeding in the same direction on the bikeway, shall maintain
clearance until safely past the overtaken bicycle or individual, and shall give
audible signal before overtaking and passing such bicycle or individual.
      3.   Sidewalks:
         a.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
         b.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such
person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible
signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   E.   Speed Restrictions: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   F.   Entering A Public Way: The operator of a bicycle entering a street,
alley, or roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on
said street, alley or roadway.
   G.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach
the same or himself to any other vehicle upon a street, alley or roadway.
   H.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars or from properly operating the brakes of the bicycle.
   I.   Parking Regulations: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other
than against the curb, or upon a sidewalk in any manner that might obstruct
pedestrian traffic. (1981 Code 1202 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
6-5-2: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflector:
      1.   No person shall operate a bicycle at nighttime unless the bicycle or
its operator is equipped with a lamp which shall emit a white light visible
from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a
red reflector of a type approved by the state department of public safety which
is visible from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet
(600') to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on
a motor vehicle. No person may operate a bicycle at any time when there is not
sufficient light to render persons and vehicles on the roadway clearly
discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead unless the bicycle
or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible
during the hours of darkness from six hundred feet (600') when viewed in front
of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
      2.   The reflective surfaces shall include reflective materials on each
side of each pedal to indicate their presence from the front or the rear and
with a minimum of twenty (20) square inches of reflective material on each side
of the bicycle or its operator. Any bicycle equipped with side reflectors as
required by regulations for new bicycles prescribed by the United States
consumer product safety commission shall be considered to meet the requirements
for side reflectorization contained in this subsection.
      3.   A bicycle may be equipped with a rear lamp that emits a red flashing
signal. (2003 Code)
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1981
Code 1202 § 2)
6-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to authorize or knowingly
permit any minor child or ward to violate any provision of this chapter. (1981
Code 1202 § 3)
6-5-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every adult person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 1202 § 4; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
6-6-1: Watercraft
6-6-2: Snowmobiles
6-6-3: Recreational Motor Vehicles
6-6-4: Surface Use Of Rogers Lake
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 6-2-10 of this title and section
  12-1D-13-5 of this code for parking regulations for recreational camping
  vehicles.
6-6-1: WATERCRAFT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BOAT OR WATERCRAFT: Every boat, houseboat, barge, vessel, raft, canoe or
other watercraft used as a support in or upon the water.
   MOTORBOAT: Any boat, canoe, watercraft or other buoyant or floating object
which is propelled by a gasoline, diesel, electric, steam or other type of
mechanical engine.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other combination of
persons.
   WATER OR WATERWAY: Any creek, lake, drainage ponding area, swamp, marsh,
drainage ditch, sump, canal, or other accumulated standing or moving water.
(1981 Code 1201 §§ 2, 3, 4, 5)
   B.   State Laws Adopted: All boats shall be navigated in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Minnesota state marine laws 1 , which regulations
are hereby adopted and by this reference made a part of this section. (1981
Code 1201 § 8)
   C.   Compliance With Provisions: No person shall navigate, operate, dock, or
anchor any boat or watercraft upon any water or waterway within the city except
in accordance with the provisions of this section and all other rules and
regulations made a part hereof by reference. (1981 Code 1201 § 1)
   D.   Prohibited Acts And Conditions:
      1.   Motorboats: No person shall operate or cause to be operated a
motorboat upon any body of water within the corporate limits of the city. (1981
Code 1201 § 6)
      2.   Operation In An Annoying, Dangerous Manner: No person shall
navigate, direct or handle any boat in such manner as to annoy, unnecessarily
frighten or endanger the occupants of other boats or watercraft, or persons in
or upon any body of water within the corporate limits of the city. (1981 Code
1201 § 7)
      3.   Hours: No person shall be or remain in any boat or otherwise upon
any body of water within the city after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight nor
before daylight of the following day. (1981 Code 1201 § 9)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 1201 § 11; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. MSA § 86B.001 et seq.
6-6-2: SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Definitions:
    OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER: A person, other than a lienholder, having the property in or title to
a snowmobile or entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   REGISTER: The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street, highway or road which is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or
on natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
   B.   State Regulations Adopted: Minnesota statutes sections 84.81 through
84.88, as amended, are hereby adopted as snowmobile regulations of the city and
made a part of this section by reference as if fully set forth herein. One copy
of said statute provisions is on file in the office of the city clerk for
public use and inspection.
   C.   Registration Required; Exceptions: Except as herein provided, no person
shall operate any snowmobile within the city, unless such snowmobile has been
registered in accordance with the laws of the state. No registration hereunder
shall be required for the following described snowmobiles: (Ord. 219, 11-5-
1985; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Snowmobiles owned and used by the United States, any state, county
or municipality.
      2.   Snowmobiles registered in a country other than the United States
temporarily used within the state.
      3.   Snowmobiles covered by a valid license of another state and which
have been within the state for not more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   D.   Permitted Areas Of Operation:
      1.   Except as herein provided, no person shall operate a snowmobile
within the city except upon private property with the written permission of the
owner of such private property.
      2.   A snowmobile may be operated upon a public street or highway in an
emergency during the period of time when, and at locations where, snow upon the
roadway renders travel by automobile impractical.
      3.   A snowmobile may be operated at any time, anywhere within the city,
under emergency circumstances by any police officer or duly authorized
official, agent, or employee of the city.
   E.   Operation Of Snowmobiles: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive
or operate any snowmobile in the following unsafe or harassing ways:
      1.   Speed: At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under
all the surrounding circumstances;
      2.   Careless, Reckless Operation: In a careless, reckless or negligent
manner so as to endanger the operator or the person or property of another or
to cause injury or damage thereto.
      3.   Under Influence Of Liquor Or Drugs: While under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotics or habit forming drugs.
      4.   At Certain Times Without Lights: Without a lighted headlight and
taillight after sunset and before sunrise or when otherwise required for
safety.
      5.   Unattended On Public Property: To leave or allow a snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property.
      6.   Noisy Conditions: In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or
unusual noise which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of
other persons.
      7.   Near Skating Rinks Or Sliding Areas: Within one hundred feet (100')
of any skating rink or sliding area, or in any other area where the operation
would conflict with use or endanger other persons or property.
   F.   Required Equipment: All snowmobiles shall have the following equipment:
      1.   Muffler: Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which
reduce the noise of operation of the machine to the minimum noise necessary for
operating the machine, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, or
similar device on said machine.
      2.   Lights: A headlight and taillight if the snowmobile is operated
after dark.
      3.   Brakes: Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold a snowmobile.
      4.   Safety Throttle: A safety or deadman throttle which automatically
cuts the fuel supply to the engine whenever the operator releases pressure on
the throttle. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
   G.   Liability Of Registered Owner:
      1.   A person registered as owner of a snowmobile may be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code if a snowmobile bearing his registration number is operated
contrary to the provisions of this section. The registered owner may not be so
fined if: a) the snowmobile was reported as stolen to a law enforcement agency
at the time of the alleged unlawful act; or b) the registered owner
demonstrates that the snowmobile either was stolen or was not in use at the
time of the alleged unlawful act; or c) the registered owner furnished to law
enforcement officers, upon request, the identity of the person in actual
physical control of the snowmobile at the time of such violation. (Ord. 219,
11-5-1985; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   The provisions of this subsection do not apply to any person who
rents or leases a snowmobile if such person keeps a record of the name and
address of the person or persons renting or leasing such snowmobile, the
registration number thereof, the departure date and time and expected time of
return thereof. Such record shall be preserved for at least six (6) months and
shall be prima facie evidence that the person named therein was the operator
thereof at the time it was operated contrary to this section. The provisions of
this subsection do not prohibit or limit the prosecution of a snowmobile
operator for violating any provisions of this section. (Ord. 219, 11-5-1985)
6-6-3: RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definition: "Recreational motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle
designed for, used or capable of use for sport, amusement or recreation,
whether or not eligible to be licensed for use upon streets and highways,
including, but not limited to, motorbikes, motor scooters, trail bikes,
minibikes, motorcycles, go-carts, hovercraft, snowmobiles converted to use with
wheels, all-terrain vehicles or dune buggies, but excluding motor vehicles
designed for commercial, industrial or agricultural use and snowmobiles
propelled by tracks.
   B.   Operation Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to operate a recreational
motor vehicle within the city:
      1.   Upon private property without the written permission of the owner or
person entitled to possession thereof. This restriction shall not apply to
motor vehicles registered under Minnesota statutes chapter 168, when operated
by a driver licensed under Minnesota statutes chapter 171, upon private
driveways, roadways, lanes, ways or parking lots where the operation of
licensed motor vehicles is not expressly prohibited by posted notice.
      2.   Upon any school grounds, public park, playground, recreational area,
golf course, or other public property.
      3.   Upon any public sidewalk, bikeway, walkway or boulevard.
      4.   Upon the right of way of any public street or highway unless:
         a.   The recreational motor vehicle is licensed under Minnesota
statutes chapter 168; and
         b.   The operator is licensed under Minnesota statutes chapter 171;
and
         c.   The vehicle is operated upon the improved portion of the right of
way.
   C.   Movement Of Unlicensed Recreational Motor Vehicles: No unlicensed
recreational motor vehicle may be moved along or across a street or highway
with a person seated thereon, whether or not the engine is operating. Such
vehicles may be moved along or across a street or highway by pushing, and only
when doing so creates no hazard to moving vehicular traffic on the street or
highway.
   D.   Noise Limits: Recreational motor vehicles shall meet the noise limits
established for motorcycles by Minnesota statutes chapter 169. (Ord. 219, 11-5-
1985)
6-6-4: SURFACE USE OF ROGERS LAKE:
   A.   Purpose, Intent, And Application: As authorized by Minnesota statutes
86B.201, 86B.205, and 459.20, and Minnesota rules 6110.3000 to 6110.3800 as now
in effect and as hereafter amended, this section is enacted for the purpose and
with the intent to control and regulate the use of the waters of Rogers Lake in
the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, said body of water being located
entirely within the boundaries of the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, to
promote its fullest use and enjoyment by the public in general and the citizens
of the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, in particular, to ensure safety for
persons and property in connection with the use of said waters; to harmonize
and integrate the varying uses of said waters; and to promote the general
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city of Mendota Heights,
Minnesota.
   B.   Definitions: Terms used in this section related to boating are defined
in Minnesota statutes 86B.005.
   C.   Surface Zoning Of Rogers Lake By Allowing The Use Of Motorboats Under
Certain Conditions:
      1.   Use of motorboats as defined in subsection 6-6-1A of this chapter
for the city of Mendota Heights shall be allowed on Rogers Lake, south of Wagon
Wheel Trail only, provided:
         a.   The motorboat must be fourteen feet (14') or less in length.
         b.   The motor strength must be forty eight (48) pounds of thrust or
less (equivalent to 5 horsepower).
         c.   The motorboat must be operated at "no wake" speed.
         d.   Operation of motorboats is restricted to between sunrise and
sunset.
   D.   Enforcement: The primary responsibility for enforcement of this section
shall rest with the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota. This, however, shall
not preclude enforcement by other licensed peace officers.
   E.   Exemptions: All authorized resource management, emergency, and
enforcement personnel, while acting in the performance of their assigned duties
are exempt from the foregoing restrictions.
   F.   Notification: It shall be the responsibility of the city of Mendota
Heights, Minnesota, to provide for adequate notification of the public, which
shall include placement of a sign as public watercraft access point(s)
outlining essential elements of this section, as well as the placement of
necessary buoys and signs.
   G.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 468, 9-16-2014)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
7-1-1: Department Established
7-1-2: Appointments And Removals
7-1-3: Duties Of Fire Chief
7-1-4: Fire Marshal
7-1-5: Police Powers Of Fire Chief And Fire Marshal
7-1-6: Order Of Command
7-1-7: Firefighters
7-1-8: Special Organizations
7-1-9: Compensation
7-1-10: Related Services
7-1-11: Equipment
7-1-12: Interference With Department
7-1-13: Violation; Penalty
7-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established in the city a volunteer fire department. The
volunteer fire department shall consist of a chief, an assistant chief, a fire
marshal, and such number of firefighters as the city council from time to time
shall authorize. (1981 Code 101 § 1)
7-1-2: APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS:
   A.   Officials: The chief of the fire department, the assistant chief, and
the fire marshal shall be appointed by the city council, which body shall, in
making such appointments, take into consideration the recommendations of the
city administrator and the members of the fire department. Each of said
officers may be removed by the city council only for cause after a public
hearing.
   B.   Firefighters: Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be
appointed by the council, which body shall, in making such appointments, take
into consideration the recommendations of the city administrator. Firefighters
may be removed by the city council only for cause after a public hearing. (1981
Code 101 § 2)
7-1-3: DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Equipment: The fire chief shall have control over all fire fighting
apparatus and shall be responsible for its care and condition.
   B.   Reports: The fire chief shall report semiannually to the city
administrator in February and August of each year as to the condition of the
equipment and needs of the fire department for budgeting purposes. He may
submit additional reports and recommendations at any meeting of the city
council, and he shall report such suspension by him of a member of the fire
department at the first meeting of the city council following such suspension.
   C.   Training And Discipline: The fire chief shall be responsible for the
proper training and discipline of the members of the fire department, and may
suspend any member for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action
by the city council on his discharge or retention. (1981 Code 101 § 3)
   D.   Records: The fire chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record
of all fires. Such record shall include the time of the alarm, location of
fire, cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and/or tenant,
purpose for which occupied, value of building and contents, the chief's own
estimate of the loss incurred, members of the department responding to the
alarm, and such other information as he may deem advisable or as may be
required from time to time by the city council or Minnesota department of
public safety. Preliminary estimates shall in no way be construed as being
binding in insurance loss adjustment. Such records shall be submitted monthly
to the city administrator. (1981 Code 101 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Drills: The fire chief shall, at least once a month, conduct suitable
drill or instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid,
rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the city, fire prevention, water
supplies, and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firefighting and safety of life and property from fire. (1981 Code 101 § 3)
7-1-4: FIRE MARSHAL:
   A.   Person Designated: The office of fire marshal may be held by the chief
or assistant chief or a designated firefighter as appointed by the city
council.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The fire marshal shall be charged with the enforcement of all
ordinances aimed at fire prevention.
      2.   The fire marshal shall have full authority to inspect all premises
and to cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards in conformity to all
existing state fire codes.
   C.   Appeals: In case of any dispute arising under this section, the
property owner concerned shall have the right of appeal to the city council.
(1981 Code 101 § 5)
7-1-5: POLICE POWERS OF FIRE CHIEF AND FIRE MARSHAL:
The fire chief and fire marshal are authorized to issue citations for
violations of the state fire code and city ordinances that relate to fire
suppression, prevention or safety. (Ord. 250, 12-15-1987)
7-1-6: ORDER OF COMMAND:
In the absence or disability of the chief, the assistant chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the chief. In the
absence of the chief and the assistant chief, a captain shall act as chief.
(1981 Code 101 § 4)
7-1-7: FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Qualifications: All officers and members of the fire department shall
be not less than eighteen (18) nor more than sixty five (65) years of age and
must be able bodied; provided, however, that an officer or member of the fire
department may continue as an officer or member after reaching sixty five (65)
years of age by special permission of the council.
   B.   Probationary Period: Firefighters shall become members of the fire
department only after a twelve (12) month probationary period after their
appointment in accordance with section
7-1-2 of this chapter. The city council may require that each candidate, before
he may become a probationary firefighter, satisfy certain minimum requirements
of height, weight, physical and mental condition or any other qualifications as
may be specified by the council. (1981 Code 101 § 6)
   C.   Loss Of Membership: Firefighters absent from three (3) consecutive
drills or calls, or a total of ten (10) drills or calls in any one calendar
year, unless excused therefrom by the chief, shall forfeit membership in the
department. (1981 Code 101 § 7)
7-1-8: SPECIAL ORGANIZATIONS:
   A.   Fireman's Relief Association: The members and officers of the fire
department shall organize themselves into a fireman's relief association.
   B.   Social Officers: The department may elect a president, vice president,
secretary, and treasurer, to be known as social officers. Such social officers
shall be elected in such manner and for such term as the membership shall
determine, and their duties shall be to arrange for and manage any or all
social functions sponsored by the department. The functions and duties of said
social officers shall in no way interfere with those of the regular department
officers who are charged with responsibility for all fire service activities of
the fire department. (1981 Code 101 § 9)
7-1-9: COMPENSATION:
The officers and members of the fire department shall receive such compensation
as the city council may, by resolution, specify. In computing compensation for
individual fires or emergency calls, one hour shall be considered the minimum
to be paid to any officer or firefighter. (1981 Code 101 § 8)
7-1-10: RELATED SERVICES:
In addition to fire fighting, the fire department may be called upon for other
emergencies. In such cases, the chief will exercise due caution to ensure that
basic fire protection services are not neglected. In the interest of public
safety and community relations, and to keep duty personnel alert, the fire
department will respond to an emergency call, other than fire, when so directed
by the chief or officer in charge of the department at his discretion, at the
time such a call is received. (1981 Code 101 § 10)
7-1-11: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Required Equipment: The fire department shall be equipped with such
apparatus and other equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain
its efficiency and properly protect life and property from fire.
   B.   Use Of Equipment:
      1.   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person wilfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the fire department.
      2.   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to or under the control of the fire
department unless accompanied by, or having special permission from, an officer
or authorized member of the department.
   C.   Mutual Aid:
      1.   The city council may, if it so determines, enter into agreements or
contracts with nearby incorporated communities or governing bodies of other
organizations to provide the members of such communities or organizations with
fire protection or to establish a mutual aid system.
      2.   Without the prior consent of the council, no fire equipment or
apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the city limits except in
response to a call for aid at a fire or an emergency in a neighboring
community. The officer in charge of the department shall have power to assign
equipment for response to calls for outside aid in accordance with subsection
C1 of this section and in those cases only when the absence of such equipment
will not jeopardize protection within the corporate limits of the city. (1981
Code 101 § 11)
7-1-12: INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the chief or person then in charge of the fire
department at a fire or emergency call or otherwise interfere with the fire
department in the discharge of its duties. (1981 Code 101 § 12)
7-1-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 101 § 13; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Code Adopted
7-2-2: Amendments
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Interpretation
7-2-5: Administration And Enforcement; Penalty
7-2-6: Open Burning
7-2-7: Recreational Fires
7-2-8: Fire Lanes
7-2-9: As Built Plans Required
7-2-10: Storage Of Flammable, Combustible Liquids
7-2-11: Fires Or Barbecues On Balconies Or Patios
7-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The current edition of the Minnesota State Fire Code, and any
amendments thereto established and adopted from time to time by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Public Safety, is hereby adopted as the Code of the City of
Mendota Heights in the State of Minnesota. It regulates and governs the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling, and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices;
from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and
premises in the City of Mendota Heights as herein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the adopted Fire Code on file
in the Office of the Fire Marshal are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes in the following sections of this chapter. A
copy of the Fire Code is maintained in the Office of the Fire Marshal or
designee for examination and use by the public.
   B.   The following appendices are adopted:
      1.   Appendix E - Hazardous Materials.
      2.   Appendix F - Hazard Rankings.
      3.   Appendix G - Cryogenic Fluids-Weight and Volume Equivalents.
      4.   Appendix H - Hazardous Materials Management Plan.
      5.   Appendix I - Fire Protection - Non-Compliant Conditions.
      6.   Appendix O - Fires or Barbecues on Balconies or Patios. (Ord. 512,
6-20-2017; amd. Ord. 563, 4-20-2021)
7-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
Section 105, Permits:
Permits shall be obtained from the fire code official. Permit fees, if any,
shall be established from time to time by resolution of city council and will
be fair, reasonable and proportionate and sufficient to defray the costs of
issuing the permit or providing the service. Permit fees shall be paid prior to
the issuance of the permit. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises
designated therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection
by the fire code official.
Chapter 9 of the Minnesota state fire code is amended to read:
   Fire extinguishers are required at the following locations: Multiple
Dwellings - located so that no person shall travel in excess of fifty (50) feet
to reach a fire extinguisher of a 2A-10BC rating. ABC extinguishers shall also
be provided for boiler, furnace, or electrical rooms. Retail And Commercial
Establishments; an ABC extinguisher with a minimum size of 2A-20BC rating shall
protect all boiler rooms, furnace, and electrical rooms.
Section 907 of the Minnesota state fire code is amended by adding a new
subsection which shall read as follows:
   When a fire system is required to be monitored by the Minnesota State Fire
Code, it shall be monitored by an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed central
monitoring station.
Section 56 of the Minnesota state fire code is amended to read as follows:
   Indoor sales of fireworks shall be restricted to buildings or structures
with an approved, fully automatic fire-sprinkler system. Outdoor sales of
fireworks is prohibited.
(Ord. 509, 5-2-2017; amd. Ord. 547, 11-6-2019; Ord. 563, 4-20-2021)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
CODE OFFICIAL: The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or other designated authority
charged by the Governing Body with the enforcement of this Code or a duly
authorized representative.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable matter such as that originating in homes,
restaurants, food service and processing establishments.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct, or chimney.
PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE: A portable, outdoor, solid fuel burning fireplace
that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay or other noncombustible
material. A portable outdoor fireplace may be open in design, or may be
equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney opening in
the top.
REFUSE: Any combustible waste material, trade waste, or garbage containing
carbon in a free state.
TRADE WASTE: Any solid, liquid, or gaseous material resulting from any
business, trade, industrial activity, construction activity, or any demolition
operation including, but not limited to, plastics, cardboard, grease, oil,
chemicals, and cinders. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017)
7-2-4: INTERPRETATION:
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the Minnesota state fire
code and the provisions of this code, the more stringent shall apply. Provided,
however, that no provision of this code shall be interpreted to exceed the
provisions of the Minnesota state building code as amended. (Ord. 509, 5-2-
2017; amd. Ord. 563, 4-20-2021)
7-2-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement: The code official shall be responsible for the enforcement
of this code to ensure compliance therewith.
   B.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by a written order pursuant to section
109.1 of the state fire code may, within fifteen (15) days after service of
said notice, appeal therefrom to the board of appeals by filing a written
notice of appeal with the city clerk. The appeal shall be heard at such time as
may be established by the board. The city council of the city of Mendota
Heights shall serve as and constitute the board of appeals. The board may, upon
the hearing, affirm in whole or in part or deny the existence of a violation.
Pending decision of the board of appeals, the order of the code official shall
be stayed unless there is an immediate fire hazard to life or property.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person in violation of the provisions of this code or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order
as affirmed or modified by the code official or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, may be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the cost of prosecution in any case.
      2.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue, and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defect within a reasonable time, and when
not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
      3.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017; amd. Ord.
563, 4-20-2021)
7-2-6: OPEN BURNING 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: Open burning in the city requires a permit issued by
the code official.
   B.   Refuse Burning Prohibited: No person, firm, or corporation shall
dispose of refuse by open burning or cause, suffer, allow, or permit open
burning of refuse upon or from any residential property situated within the
city or from any property in the city situated in an area designated as
residential under the city zoning ordinance.
   C.   Exception: Fires set for the instruction and training of the Mendota
Heights fire department or by approval of the Mendota Heights city council
provided that such burning is not prohibited by or is conducted in compliance
with any other applicable ordinances, laws, or regulations. (Ord. 509, 5-2-
2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-3-2 and subsection 8-4-3C of this code.
7-2-7: RECREATIONAL FIRES:
A property owner or lessee of the property may have a recreational fire without
obtaining a permit by complying with the following regulations:
   A.   Hours Fires To Be Extinguished: Fires shall be extinguished within
three (3) hours after start but not later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   B.   Materials Burned Restricted: Clean, dry wood only (no refuse, grass,
leaves, logs over 3 inches in diameter, paper, garbage, trade waste or other
combustibles).
   C.   Size Of Fire: Size shall not be more than three feet (3') in diameter,
nor shall the flames reach a height in excess of three feet (3').
   D.   Location: No fire shall be within twenty five feet (25') of any
building or structure.
   E.   Means To Extinguish: A means of extinguishment must be in the immediate
area of the fire.
   F.   Weather Conditions: No fire shall be started or maintained in dry
conditions or when winds are over fifteen (15) mph.
   G.   Attendance Required: Recreational fires must be constantly attended by
a competent person of at least sixteen (16) years of age until the recreational
fire has been extinguished.
   H.   Portable Outdoor Fireplaces: Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions and shall not be operated
within fifteen feet (15') (4572 mm) of a structure or combustible material.
   I.   Authority To Restrict Fires: The code official has the authority to
prohibit, suspend, or further restrict all fires should conditions warrant such
action. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017)
7-2-8: FIRE LANES:
   A.   The code official is hereby authorized to order establishment of fire
lanes on public or private property as may be necessary in order that the
travel of fire equipment may not be interfered with, and that access to fire
hydrants or buildings may not be obstructed.
   B.   When a fire lane has been ordered to be established, it shall be marked
by a sign bearing the words "No Parking Fire Lane" on both sides of the sign.
When the fire lane is on public property or a public right of way, the sign(s)
shall be erected by the city. If on private property, the sign(s) shall be
erected by the owner at his expense.
   C.   Fire lane signs shall be twelve inches by eighteen inches (12" x 18")
and shall be white with red lettering and be clearly visible from a distance of
one hundred feet (100'). The sign(s) shall be mounted at a height of five feet
(5') but no more than six feet (6') from the surface to the top of the sign(s).
(Ord. 509, 5-2-2017)
7-2-9: AS BUILT PLANS REQUIRED:
   A.   The Mendota Heights fire department requires a fire protection "as
built" plan of new and existing buildings. The plan must identify the
following:
      1.   Fire department connection.
      2.   Post indicator valve.
      3.   Sprinkler riser valves.
      4.   Access doors.
      5.   Roof vents and hatches.
      6.   Stairway locations.
      7.   Standpipes.
      8.   Fire lane(s).
      9.   Building dimensions.
      10.   Utility shutoff locations.
      11.   Hydrant locations.
      12.   Size of water main.
      13.   Type of construction.
      14.   HAZMAT/flammable storage rooms. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017; amd. Ord. 563,
4-20-2021)
7-2-10: STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE, COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
   A.   Flammable, Combustible Liquids: Flammable or combustible liquids in
aboveground tanks are prohibited in R and B zoning districts, except where
vault type tanks are approved by the state fire marshal for aboveground use.
   B.   Bulk Plants: Bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids are
prohibited in R and B zoning districts. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017)
7-2-11: FIRES OR BARBECUES ON BALCONIES OR PATIOS:
   A.   Fire Or Open Flame: In any structure containing three (3) or more
dwelling units, no person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any fire or open
flame on any balcony above ground level, or on any ground floor patio
immediately adjacent to or within fifteen feet (15') of any unit.
   B.   Fuel Storage Prohibited: No person shall store or use any fuel,
barbecue, torch or similar heating or lighting chemicals or devices in the
locations designated in subsection A of this section.
   C.   Exception: Listed electric or gas fired barbecue grills that are
permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building's gas supply or
electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of eighteen inches
(18") on all sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on
balconies and patios when approved by the fire chief. (Ord. 509, 5-2-2017; amd.
Ord. 563, 4-20-2021)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, TREES AND STREET LIGHTING
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definition
8-1-2: Removal Of Snow, Ice, Dirt And Rubbish From Sidewalks
8-1-3: Repair Of Sidewalks
8-1-4: Street Sprinkling, Flushing And Oiling; Tree Care
8-1-5: Street Lighting Costs
8-1-6: Costs Of Services
8-1-7: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITION:
The term "current service", as used in this chapter, means one or more of the
following: snow, ice, or rubbish removal from sidewalks; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks, trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect infested trees from the public streets or private property and the
operation of a street lighting system. (1981 Code 701 § 1)
8-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Accumulations Prohibited; Nuisance Declared: All snow, ice, dirt, and
rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more than twenty four (24) hours after
its deposit thereon is hereby determined to be a public nuisance 1 . The owner
and the occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due
diligence to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant
shall allow snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than twenty
four (24) hours after its deposit thereon. (1981 Code 701 § 2)
   B.   Removal By City; Records Kept: The city public works superintendent or
other officials or employees of the city designated by the city council may
remove from all public sidewalks within the city all snow, ice, dirt, and
rubbish as soon as possible beginning twenty four (24) hours after any such
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. Such
employees or officials shall keep a record showing the cost of such removal
adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information to
the city clerk. (1981 Code 701 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-4A1 of this code.
8-1-3: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owner To Repair: The owner of any property within the
city abutting public sidewalks shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for
pedestrians.
   B.   Repair Specifications: Repairs shall be made in accordance with
standard specifications approved by the council and on file in the office of
the city clerk. (1981 Code 701 § 3)
   C.   Inspections; Notice To Repair: It shall be the duty of the city public
works superintendent or other officials designated by the city council to make
such inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks within the
city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians. If he finds that any sidewalk
abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of repair, he shall cause a
notice to be served, by certified or registered mail or by personal service,
upon the recorded owner of the property and the occupant if the owner does not
reside within the city or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have
the sidewalk repaired and made safe within thirty (30) days, and stating that
if the owner fails to do so, the city will have such work done, and that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid, the entire cost
thereof will be made a special assessment against the property concerned. (1981
Code 701 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Repair By City; Record Of Costs: If the sidewalk is not repaired within
ninety (90) days after receipt of the notice, the city council shall by
resolution order the sidewalk repaired and made safe for pedestrians, all in
accordance with law. A record of the total cost of the repair attributable to
each lot or parcel of property shall be maintained by the city clerk. (1981
Code 701 § 3)
8-1-4: STREET SPRINKLING, FLUSHING AND OILING; TREE CARE:
   A.   Determination Of Service Needed; Notice: The council may each year
determine by resolution what streets and alleys shall be sprinkled or flushed,
oiled, or given other dust treatment during the year and the kind of work to be
done on each. The council may also determine by resolution from time to time
the streets on which trees shall be trimmed and cared for, the kind of work to
be done and what unsound trees shall be removed. Before any work is done
pursuant to either of these resolutions, the clerk shall, under the council's
direction, publish notice that the council will meet to consider such projects.
Such notice shall be published in the official newspaper at least once not less
than two (2) weeks prior to such meeting of the council and shall state the
date, time and place of such meeting, the streets affected and the particular
projects proposed, and the estimated cost of each project, either in total or
on the basis of the proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
   B.   Hearing; Decisions: At such hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the
council shall hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability
of the proposed projects. The council shall thereupon adopt a resolution
confirming the original projects with such modifications as it considers
desirable and shall provide for the doing of the work by day labor by city
employees or by contract.
   C.   Record Of Costs: A record of the cost and the portion of the cost
properly attributable to each lot and parcel of property abutting on the street
or alley on which the work is done shall be maintained by the city clerk. (1981
Code 701 § 4)
8-1-5: STREET LIGHTING COSTS:
The city clerk shall keep a record of the cost of operation of the street
lighting system for the twelve (12) months preceding July 1 of each year and
the portion of the cost determined by the city council to be properly
attributable during that period to each lot and parcel of property abutting on
the street or alley in which the system is located. All such costs shall be
collected in the manner provided by this chapter. (1981 Code 701 § 5)
8-1-6: COSTS OF SERVICES:
   A.   Liability Of Owner: The owner of property on which or adjacent to which
a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of
such service.
   B.   Bills For Services: As soon as the service has been completed and the
cost determined, the city clerk or other designated official shall prepare a
bill and mail it to the owner, and thereupon, the amount shall be immediately
due and payable at the office of the city clerk. (1981 Code 701 § 6)
   C.   Costs Assessed: On or before December 1 of each year, the clerk shall
list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this chapter. The
council shall then levy such charges against the property or properties so
benefitted as a special assessment pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota
statutes section 429.101. Such assessments shall thereupon be certified by the
city clerk to the county auditor, and the same shall be collected the following
year along with current real estate taxes and the collection thereof enforced
in the same manner, in all respects, as such real estate taxes, subject to like
penalty, costs and interest charges. (1981 Code 701 § 7; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who maintains a nuisance in violation of section
8-1-2 of this chapter and any person who interferes with a city employee or
other authorized person in the performance of any current service under this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If convicted of such violation, such
person shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 701 § 8; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Obstruction Or Encroachment Prohibited
8-2-2: Removal; Costs To Owner
8-2-3: Exemptions
8-2-4: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: OBSTRUCTION OR ENCROACHMENT PROHIBITED:
Except as provided in section
8-2-3 of this chapter, no person shall obstruct, encroach upon, encumber or
otherwise interfere with any public grounds, or streets, or easements held by
the city for street or utility purposes, by putting thereon any curbing,
paving, fences, buildings, markers, posts, rocks, stones, or other structures,
or depositing thereon snow, debris, or any other matter. The prohibition herein
stated shall apply as to any easement to the entire width or extent thereof,
and not just to the portion which may from time to time be in public use for
travel or other purposes. (1981 Code 702 § 1)
8-2-2: REMOVAL; COSTS TO OWNER:
The city may cause any encumbrances or obstructions which now exist or
hereafter may exist in violation of the provisions hereof to be removed and the
cost thereof to be specially assessed against the property owned by the person
who caused such encumbrance or obstruction to be created. When so assessed, the
cost shall be certified to the county auditor for collection, and shall be
included in the next tax rolls to be prepared by the county auditor. The city
may also, notwithstanding such assessment of the cost of removing an
encumbrance or obstruction, cause the person who caused or created it to be
punished for a misdemeanor hereunder. (1981 Code 702 § 1)
8-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following exceptions to sections
8-2-1 and
8-2-2 are hereby established:
   A.   Snow And Ice: Accumulations of snow and ice may be deposited upon those
portions of such grounds, streets or easements not used for travel or for
access by the public or the city 1 .
   B.   Vehicle Parking: Vehicles may be parked in the manner and to the extent
permitted by the applicable ordinances of the city.
   C.   Driveway Construction: Driveways may be cut and surfaced, provided they
do not exceed a width of twenty five feet (25') and their location does not
violate any ordinance of the city. (1981 Code 702 § 1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-4A2 of this code.
8-2-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person or persons, firm, association, partnership or corporation violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 702 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LITTERING; FIRES ON PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Littering; Garbage And Refuse Deposits Prohibited
8-3-2: Fires On Public Ways Prohibited
8-3-3: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: LITTERING; GARBAGE AND REFUSE DEPOSITS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause or permit
garbage, tin cans, trash, wastepaper, rubbish, glass, metal, grass clippings,
tree clippings, hedge clippings, shrub clippings or lawn rakings to be
deposited, thrown, scattered, or left upon any street, alley, highway, parkway,
boulevard, gutter, or upon any vacant or unoccupied real estate within the
corporate limits of the city or to fail, neglect or refuse to remove the same.
(1981 Code 703 § 1)
8-3-2: FIRES ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn any sweepings,
trash, lumber, leaves, straw, paper, grass or any combustible material upon any
street, alley, gutter, or highway within the corporate limits of the city.
(1981 Code 703 § 2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 7-2-6 and 7-2-7 of this code for open burning
  regulations.
8-3-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 703 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Park Hours
8-4-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-4-4: Equipment And Dangerous Activities
8-4-5: Rules Of Conduct
8-4-6: Animals In Parks
8-4-7: Additional Rules And Regulations
8-4-8: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALL TIMES: Means twenty four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
CANNABIS FLOWER CANNABIS PRODUCT, LOWER- POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE, AND HEMP- DERIVED
CONSUMER PRODUCT: Shall have the meanings as defined in Minn. Stat. § 342.01,
as may be amended form time to time.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE: Means any product containing or delivering
nicotine, lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that
can be used by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any
other substance through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. The
term includes, but is not limited to, devices manufactured, distributed,
marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, or e-hookah.
PUBLIC PARK OR PARKS: Is any land owned or leased by the City for the use of
the public for any one or a combination of the following uses: recreation,
relaxation, amusement, playgrounds and fields, swimming, beaches, trails and
trailways.
RECREATIONAL AREAS: Means all facilities, parks, trails, open space, and other
property owned, leased, rented, contracted, used, or controlled by the City of
Mendota Heights for parks and recreational purposes. The term includes, but is
not limited to, restrooms, spectator and concession areas, playgrounds, and
athletic fields.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco, cannabis flower, cannabis product, or
plant product, or inhaling or exhaling aerosol or vapor from any electronic
delivery device. Smoking includes being in possession of a lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco, cannabis, or plant product
intended for inhalation, or an electronic delivery device that is turned on or
otherwise activated.
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product including but not
limited to cigarettes; cigars and other smoking tobacco; snuff and other
chewing tobacco; electronic delivery devices; and any other kinds and forms of
tobacco. The term excludes any product that has been approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as
a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
TOBACCO USE: Means the act of smoking, the use of smokeless tobacco, or the use
of any other tobacco product in any form.
(Ord. 539, 4-2-2019; amd. Ord. 589, 8-7-2024)
8-4-2: PARK HOURS:
   A.   Prohibited Hours 1 : No person shall be in any public park, and no
person shall remain in or leave any vehicle in any public park or upon any
parkway or public grounds between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following morning. Nothing in this section shall
apply to persons traveling upon established driveways located within public
parks or upon parkways.
   B.   Permit For Activities: Special permission for groups of persons to
remain in any public park for a longer period than those designated herein may
be obtained from the City Council at their discretion; provided, however, that
such permits and permission shall specify what special conditions must be
observed by said persons during said period.
   C.   Exception; Enforcement: Duly designated City employees may enter the
public parks at any time to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (1981 Code
913 § 4)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-2-7C of this Code.
8-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Damage To Property: No person shall injure, damage, deface, destroy,
diminish or impair the value of any public or private property located within
any public park in the City including, but not limited to, buildings,
structures, signs, trees, shrubs, or vegetation. (1981 Code 913 § 2)
   B.   Littering: No person shall litter, cast or throw rubbish, trash, or
garbage in any public park including any adjacent water area within the City,
but shall place such materials in the proper receptacles. Where receptacles are
not provided in the public park, all such rubbish, trash or garbage shall be
carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence. (1981
Code 913 § 3)
   C.   Open Fires 1 : No person shall build a fire in any area in a public
park except in fireplaces or receptacles duly provided for said purpose or in
such areas as may be specifically designated or marked for open fires. Fires
must be attended at all times and extinguished after use. (1981 Code 913 § 5)
   D.   Discriminatory Practices: No person involved in any park event or in
any use of the public parks shall commit an unfair discriminatory practice,
deny another person access to, admission to, utilization of, or benefit from
any such events or park use because of race, sex, color, creed, religion or
national origin, disability, marital status, age, or sexual orientation. (1981
Code 913 § 7; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Use: Smoking of any kind, including tobacco and cannabis products, is
prohibited at all times in or on all recreational areas. It is not a violation
of this policy to smoke or use tobacco in or on recreational areas as part of a
Native American spiritual or cultural ceremony. Approval from the City of
Mendota Heights City Administrator or his/her designee must be received prior
to the ceremony.
(Ord. 539, 4-2-2019; amd. Ord. 589, 8-7-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-2-6 of this Code.
8-4-4: EQUIPMENT AND DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Equipment Use Restricted: In all areas where swimming and wading are
permitted, the City Council shall, with the advice of the Parks and Recreation
Commission, by resolution, prohibit the use of such equipment as it deems
dangerous to persons engaging in such activities.
   B.   Dangerous Activities:
      1.   Authority To Determine And Prohibit: The Council or its duly
designated agent shall determine what activities are dangerous and shall be
authorized to prohibit such dangerous activities.
      2.   Permit Requirements: No person shall participate in any scheduled
group activity without written permission. Any group wishing use of any park
facility for a particular purpose shall first obtain a permit from the City
Council or its designated representative. The Council may adopt an application
form to be used for this purpose which may contain a requirement for an
indemnity bond to protect the City from any liability or property damage. (1981
Code 913 § 7)
8-4-5: RULES OF CONDUCT:
   A.   Gambling, Indecent Conduct Prohibited: Gambling or abusive, boisterous,
profane or indecent language, or conduct, in any public park is prohibited.
(1981 Code 913 § 6; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Glass Beverage Containers, Liquor Prohibited:
      1.   Glass beverage containers and/or keg beer are prohibited in City
parks.
      2.   The sale of beer or other alcoholic beverages is prohibited in City
parks.
      3.   Excessive use of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in City parks.
(2003 Code)
   C.   Reckless Behavior Prohibited: No person shall behave in a reckless
manner which would endanger any person within a public park or the property of
any such person.
   D.   Obedience To Officials Required: No person shall disobey any
responsible lawful order or direction of any park employee, police officer, or
other person designated by the City Council to give such orders or directions.
(1981 Code 913 § 6)
8-4-6: ANIMALS IN PARKS:
Within a public park:
   A.   Killing, Trapping, Fishing: No person shall kill, trap, hunt, pursue,
or in any manner disturb or cause to be disturbed any wildlife; provided,
however, that unless prohibited by resolution of the City Council, fishing
shall be permitted upon the lakes situated within or adjacent to any public
park.
   B.   Swimming And Wading Areas: No animal shall be permitted in any swimming
or wading areas, or in the immediate vicinity of any swimming or wading areas.
(1981 Code 913 § 8)
   C.   Dogs To Be Restrained 1 : No owner of a dog shall permit his dog to be
at large in City parks, but shall keep such dog under restraint at all times.
"Restraint", as used herein, shall be deemed to mean controlled by a leash not
exceeding six feet (6') in length. (1981 Code 913 § 8; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Horses And Donkeys: No person shall ride, lead, or permit a horse,
pony, donkey, or other similarly sized animal in any improved areas of the
public parks except in those areas (whether improved or not) where such animals
are specifically allowed by resolution of the City Council. "Improved areas",
as used herein, shall be deemed to mean areas which are mowed, paved, or
blacktopped or trails established or designated for pedestrian, cross country
skiing, or bicycle use. (1981 Code 913 § 8)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-3-3D of this Code for required removal of dog waste.
8-4-7: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Council shall have the right to issue additional administrative rules
and regulations relative to but not conflicting with this chapter. No person
shall violate such rules or regulations that may be established by the Council.
(1981 Code 913 § 9)
8-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code.
Any person violating Section
8-4-3E shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine.
(1981 Code 913 § 10; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 589, 8-7-2024)
CHAPTER 5
VACATING PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-5-1: Authority Of Council To Vacate
8-5-2: Application For Vacation; Fee
8-5-3: Notice And Hearing; Grant Or Denial Of Vacation
8-5-4: Recording Vacation
8-5-1: AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO VACATE:
The council may by resolution vacate any street, alley, public ground, public
way, or any part thereof on its own motion or on petition of a majority of the
owners of land abutting on the street, alley or public grounds to be vacated.
When there has been no petition, the resolution may be adopted only by a vote
of four-fifths (4/5) of all members of the council. (Ord. 180, 4-7-1981)
8-5-2: APPLICATION FOR VACATION; FEE:
An application for vacation shall be filed with the city clerk and shall state
the exceptional conditions and any practical or peculiar difficulties or
community benefit claimed as a basis for a vacation. An application fee of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be required and submitted along with the
application. The application fee shall not be refundable unless the application
is withdrawn prior to referral to the city council. There shall be no fee in
the case of applications filed in the public interest by the city council,
planning commission or state government agencies. (Ord. 180, 4-7-1981)
8-5-3: NOTICE OF HEARING; GRANT OR DENIAL OF VACATION:
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of staff reports and recommendations, the
council shall hold a public hearing affording an opportunity for all parties
interested to be heard and shall give no less than two (2) weeks' published and
posted notice. Written notice shall be mailed to each property owner affected
by the vacation at least ten (10) days before the hearing. In considering an
application for vacation, the council shall consider the effect of the proposed
vacation upon the health, safety and welfare of occupants of surrounding lands,
existing and anticipated traffic conditions and the effect of the proposed
vacation on the comprehensive plan. If the council shall determine that the
proposed vacation will be in the best interest of the public and will not be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of the community and is in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter and the
comprehensive plan, the council may grant such vacation. (Ord. 180, 4-7-1981;
amd. 2003 Code)
8-5-4: RECORDING VACATION:
After a resolution of vacation is adopted, the city clerk shall prepare a
notice of completion of the proceedings which shall contain the name of the
city, identification of the vacation, a statement of the time of completion
thereof and a description of the real estate and lands affected thereby. The
notice shall be presented to the county auditor for entry in his transfer
records and shall then be filed in the office of the county recorder. (Ord.
180, 4-7-1981)
CHAPTER 6
NEWSPAPER DISPENSERS; OTHER CONTAINERS
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose And Intent
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Compliance With Provisions
8-6-4: Notice To City Of Placement; Required Information
8-6-5: Insurance Requirements; Nonliability Of City
8-6-6: Placement And Requirements
8-6-7: Abandonment Of Dispensers
8-6-8: Information Required On Dispensers
8-6-9: Violations; Removal Of Dispensers
8-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the citizens of the city by
regulating the placement of newspaper box dispensers and any and all other
types of containers on public property within the city. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different intention,
the following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
DISPENSER/NEWSPAPER BOX: Any container, storage unit or dispenser installed,
used or maintained on public property.
DISTRIBUTOR/CUSTODIAN: The person or entity responsible for placing and
maintaining a dispenser on public property. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No distributor/custodian of any dispenser shall carry on such dispensing or
vending activity on public property within the city unless the provisions of
this chapter have been met. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-4: NOTICE TO CITY OF PLACEMENT; REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Each distributor/custodian shall notify the public works director of
the location of each dispenser. Such notification shall be in writing and
accompanied by a sketch of each dispenser location showing each dispenser's
distance (in feet) from curbs, crosswalks, fire hydrants, rights of way,
trails, light standards, traffic control boxes, and traffic signs and signals
within a twenty foot (20') radius of the dispenser location.
   B.   Each distributor/custodian shall submit, in addition to the written
notification to the public works director of the location of each dispenser,
the following: name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for
the device and the name of the newspaper or periodical it will dispense. (Ord.
329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
   A.   Each distributor/custodian shall file a signed statement, indemnifying
and holding harmless the city, its officers and employees, from any loss or
liability or damages, including expenses and costs, for bodily injury and
property damage sustained by any person as a result of the location,
installation, use, maintenance, removal or storage of applicant's dispensers
and any and all types of containers within the city. The applicant shall submit
a copy of the public liability insurance policy or certificate of insurance
with coverage limits of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
   B.   Each distributor shall also file a signed statement holding harmless
the city, its officers and employees, from any damage to the dispensers and any
and all types of containers as the result of routine city maintenance
operations. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-6: PLACEMENT AND REQUIREMENTS:
All newspaper dispensers and any and all types of containers placed on public
property shall comply with all applicable provisions of this code as follows:
   A.   Specifications: Dispenser shall be constructed of metal or other
material of substantially equivalent strength and durability, not more than
fifty inches (50") in height and not more than thirty two inches (32") in
length and width.
   B.   Location:
      1.   No dispenser shall be located within fifteen feet (15') of any fire
hydrant or other emergency facility.
      2.   No dispenser shall be located within twelve feet (12') of the curb
return or any unmarked crosswalk.
      3.   No dispenser shall be located within five feet (5') of any marked
crosswalk.
      4.   All dispensers must be set back a minimum of two feet (2') from the
curbs.
      5.   No dispenser shall be placed within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
another newspaper dispensing device containing the same newspaper or
periodical; except, that the public works director may permit two (2) such
dispensing devices at an intersection where such placement would not impair
traffic or otherwise create a hazardous situation.
      6.   No dispenser shall be located within ten feet (10') of utility owned
or government owned light standards, trash receptacles, traffic signal control
boxes, mailboxes, water meters, gas meters, electrical pull boxes, catch basins
and utility manhole covers.
      7.   No dispenser shall be placed, installed, used or maintained at any
location whereby the clear space for the passageway of pedestrians is reduced
to less than five feet (5') unless such passageway is already restricted by a
permanent fixture and the placement of the dispenser will not reduce the
remaining passageway.
      8.   No dispenser shall be placed, installed, used or maintained at a
location where the dispenser interferes with or hinders city removal of snow,
ice, and debris from the roadway or sidewalk. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
      9.   No dispenser shall project onto, into or over any part of the
roadway of any public street nor shall it rest, wholly or in part, upon, along,
or over any portion of the roadway of any public street. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Anchoring Dispensers:
      1.   No dispenser shall be chained, bolted or otherwise fastened to any
city owned property without permission by the public works director.
      2.   All dispensers shall be securely anchored so as not to be tipped
over, blown over or improperly removed.
   D.   Maintenance Requirements: The distributor/custodian shall maintain the
device in good working order and in a safe and clean condition and keep the
immediate area free from litter and debris caused by its activities.
   E.   Use For Advertising Prohibited: The distributor/custodian shall not use
the device for advertising signs or publicity purposes other than those
directly related to the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or
periodical sold within.
   F.   Removal Of Dispenser; Restoration Of Property: The distributor/
custodian, upon removal of the newspaper box dispenser, shall restore the
public property it occupied to the same conditions as when the device was
initially installed. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-7: ABANDONMENT OF DISPENSERS:
In the event a dispenser remains empty or unattended for a period of ten (10)
continuous days, the dispenser shall be deemed abandoned and may be removed by
the city and stored at a location convenient to the city. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-8: INFORMATION REQUIRED ON DISPENSERS:
Every distributor or custodian who places or maintains a dispenser in the city
shall have his name, address and telephone number affixed thereto in a place
where such information may be easily seen. If the person or custodian is a
corporation, then the name, address, and telephone number of the distributor,
or an individual who can relate the name of the distributor, must be affixed in
a place where such information can be easily seen. (Ord. 329, 3-2-1999)
8-6-9: VIOLATIONS; REMOVAL OF DISPENSERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: If any dispenser is improperly identified, or is
installed, used or maintained in violation of any other provisions of this
chapter, an order to correct the offending condition shall be sent by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the owner or custodian of such dispenser.
Such order shall specifically describe the offending condition and recommend
actions necessary to correct.
   B.   Failure To Correct Violation; Removal Of Dispenser: If, within ten (10)
working days after the mailing of notice, a dispenser is not properly
identified, or the offending condition is not corrected, or the owner or
custodian has not requested a hearing before the public works director or his/
her designated representative, the offending dispenser and its contents shall
be removed and stored in a convenient location by the public works director.
   C.   Unclaimed Dispensers: Upon failure of the owner or custodian to claim a
dispenser within thirty (30) days after notice of such removal, said dispenser
and its contents shall be processed as unclaimed property and disposed of
pursuant to the applicable provisions of the law 1 . When a dispenser has been
removed and processed as unclaimed property, the owner or custodian shall be
charged a processing fee as established by city council resolution, in addition
to the removal and storage fee, before the dispenser may be released. (Ord.
329, 3-2-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose And Intent
8-7-2: Election To Manage
8-7-3: Definitions
8-7-4: Administration
8-7-5: Registration And Occupancy
8-7-6: Registration Information
8-7-7: Reporting Obligations
8-7-8: Permit Requirement
8-7-9: Permit Applications
8-7-10: Issuance Of A Permit And Conditions
8-7-11: Action On Small-Wireless-Facility Permit Applications
8-7-12: Permit Fees
8-7-13: Patching And Restoration
8-7-14: Joint Applications
8-7-15: Supplementary Applications
8-7-16: Other Obligations
8-7-17: Denial Of Permit
8-7-18: Installation Requirements
8-7-19: Inspection
8-7-20: Work Done Without A Permit
8-7-21: Supplementary Notification
8-7-22: Revocation Of Permits
8-7-23: Mapping Data
8-7-24: Location And Relocation Of Facilities
8-7-25: Pre-Evacuation Facilities Location
8-7-26: Damage To Other Facilities
8-7-27: Vacation And Reservation Of Right
8-7-28: Indemnification And Liability
8-7-29: Abandoned And Unusable Facilities
8-7-30: Appeal
8-7-31: Reservation Of Regulatory And Police Powers
8-7-32: Severability
8-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to ensure
the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way, the
City strives to keep its rights-of- way in a state of good repair and free from
unnecessary encumbrances.
Accordingly, the City hereby enacts this new chapter of this Code relating to
right-of-way permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable
regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal
agencies. Under this chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter
provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using
the public rights-of-way.
This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws, chapter
123, substantially codified in Minnesota Statutes sections 237.16, 237.162,
237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and 2017 Minnesota Laws,
chapter 94, article 9, amending the Act, and the other laws governing
applicable rights of the City and right-of-way users. This chapter shall also
be interpreted consistent with Minnesota Rule 7819.0050 - 7819.9950 and
Minnesota Rule, chapter 7560 where possible. To the extent any provision of
this chapter cannot be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that
interpretation most consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory and
case law is intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to limit the
regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the City hereby elects, pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes 237.163 subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply in this chapter. References hereafter to
"sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this
chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not capitalized.
ABANDONED FACILITY: A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected
from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is
in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned unless declared so
by the right-of-way user.
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way.
CITY: The City of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, its elected officials, officers,
employees, and/or agents.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
City or other governmental unit.
COMMISSION: The State Public Utilities Commission.
CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY: A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with Minnesota Statutes section 216D.04, subd. 3, over a
continuous length in excess of five hundred feet (500').
CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND: Any of the following forms of security provided
at permittee's option:
   A.   Individual project bond;
   B.   Cash deposit;
   C.   Security of a form listed or approved under Minnesota Statutes section
15.73, subd. 3;
   D.   Letter of Credit, in a form acceptable to the City;
   E.   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the City;
   F.   A blanket bond for projects within the City, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the City.
DEGRADATION: A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
DEGRADATION COST: Subject to Minnesota Rule 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the City at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minnesota Rule, parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
DEGRADATION FEE: The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by the
City to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of the
right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation cost.
DELAY PENALTY: The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in right-
of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established by
permit.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
DIRECTOR: The Director of Public Works, or her or his designee.
EMERGENCY: A condition that: a) poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or b) requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
EQUIPMENT: Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
EXCAVATE: To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or penetrate
any part of a right-of-way.
EXCAVATION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be obtained
before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit allows the
holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit.
EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in section
8-7-12 of this chapter.
FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide a service.
HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR: A designated portion of the public right- of-way within
which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and competing
facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a common conduit
system or other common structure.
HOLE: An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length less
than the width of the pavement.
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
MANAGEMENT COSTS: The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-of-
way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small-wireless-
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of- way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small-wireless-facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the City including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the City, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, chapter 123; Minnesota Statutes section 237.162 or 237.163; or any
ordinance enacted under those sections, or the City fees and costs related to
appeals taken pursuant to section
8-7-30 of this chapter.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is no longer than
twenty four inches (24") long, fifteen inches (15") wide, and twelve inches
(12") high, and whose exterior antenna, if any, is no longer than eleven inches
(11").
OBSTRUCT: To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free
and open passage over that or any part of the right- of-way.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in section
8-7-12 of this chapter.
PATCH OR PATCHING: A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of: a) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and b) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet (2') beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch
is considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the City's
five-year project plan.
PAVEMENT: Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-way
and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
PERMIT: Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in Minnesota Statutes
section 237.162.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-way
has been granted by the City under this chapter.
PERSON: An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this State,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
PROBATION: The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions of
this chapter.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD: One year from the date that a person has been notified in
writing that they have been put on probation.
PROJECT PLAN: Shows projects adopted by the City for construction within the
next five (5) years.
REGISTRANT: Any person who: a) has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right-of-way, or b) in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the
right-of-way.
RESTORATION COST: The amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right- of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
RIGHT-OF-WAY OR PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which
the City has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of the City. A right-of-way does not include the
airwaves above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: Either the excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small-wireless-facilities permit, or any combination thereof, depending on the
context, required by this chapter.
RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A. A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, section 237.162, subd. 4; or
   B.   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that is
used or intended to be used for providing a service, and who has a right under
law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
SERVICE: Includes: a) those services provided by a public utility as defined in
Minnesota Statutes 216B.02, subds. 4 and 6; b) services of a telecommunications
right-of-way user, including transporting of voice or data information; c)
services of a cable communications systems as defined in Minnesota Statutes
chapter 238; d) natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the City; e) services provided by a cooperative electric
association organized under Minnesota Statutes, chapter 308A; and f) water, and
sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or heating services.
SERVICE LATERAL: An underground facility that is used to transmit, distribute
or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common source to
an end-use customer. A service lateral is also an underground facility that is
used in the removal of wastewater from a customer's premises.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
   A.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6)
cubic feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
   B.   All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than twenty eight
(28) cubic feet in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment.
SMALL-WIRELESS-FACILITY PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter,
must be obtained before a person may install, place, maintain, or operate a
small wireless facility in a public right-of-way to provide wireless service. A
small-wireless- facility permit allows the holder to conduct such activities in
that part of the right-of-way described in such permit. A small- wireless-
facility permit does not authorize: a) providing any service other than a
wireless service, or b) installation, placement, maintenance, or operation of a
wireline backhaul facility in the right-of-way.
SMALL-WIRELESS-FACILITY PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a permittee to
cover the costs as provided in section
8-7-12 of this chapter.
SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate or obstruct more of
the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend or supply additional information
to, a permit that had already been submitted or issued.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A person owning or controlling a facility
in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the right-of-
way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless service, or
transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes
of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under
Minnesota Statutes chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in Minnesota Statutes section 216B.02, a municipality, a Municipal gas or power
agency organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter 453 and 453A, or a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter
308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this
chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
TEMPORARY SURFACE: The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the City's current year plan, in which case it is
considered full restoration.
TRENCH: An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
UTILITY POLE: A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision of
wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber- optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
a small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, that are not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
WIRELESS SERVICE: Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means of a mobile
device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service does not
include services regulated under title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, including cable service.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the City.
WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY: A facility used to transport communications data by
wire from a wireless facility to a communications network. (Ord. 519, 1-16-
2018)
8-7-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director of Public Works is the principal City official responsible for the
administration of the telecommunications rights-of-way, its permits, and the
ordinances related thereto. The Director of Public Works may delegate any or
all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-5: REGISTRATION AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Registration: Each registrant must register with the City.
   B.   Registration Prior To Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a City ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
chapter. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law. (Ord.
519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-6: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Information Required: The information provided to the City at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      2.   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      3.   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         a.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the City;
         b.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right-of- way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         c.   Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages;
         d.   Requiring that the City be notified thirty (30) days in advance
of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         e.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by the City
in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
         f.   The City requires a copy of the actual insurance policies. (Ord.
519, 1-16-2018)
         g.   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under Minnesota Statutes section 303.08 as recorded and
certified to by the Secretary of State. (Ord. 532, 9-17-2018)
         h.   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization or
approval from the applicable State or Federal agency to lawfully operate, where
the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval from
said commission or other State or Federal agency.
   B.   Notice Of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-7: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Operations: Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the City. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
      2.   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated beginning
and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the next five (5) years
following the next calendar year (in this section, an "annual-year project").
The term "project" in this section shall include both next- year projects and
up to five-year projects.
By January 1 of each year, the City will have available for inspection in the
City's office a composite list of all projects of which the City has been
informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping
themselves informed of the current status of this list.
Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project in its list
of next-year projects, and must notify the City and all other registrants of
all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant may
at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant listed by the
other registrant.
   B.   Additional Next-Year Projects: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project. (Ord. 519, 1-16-
2018)
8-7-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the City to do so.
      1.   Excavation Permit: An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by
placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      2.   Obstruction Permit: An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      3.   Small-Wireless-Facility Permit: A small-wireless-facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right-of-way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked. No small-wireless-
facility permit is required to solely conduct: a) routine maintenance of a
small wireless facility; b) replacement of a small wireless facility with a new
facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and
wind or structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
c) installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with National Safety Codes, however, a service
provider is required to make written notice of such activities to the City if
the work will obstruct a public right-of-way.
      4.   Special Or Conditional Use Permit: A special or conditional use
permit is required to install a new wireless support structure for the siting
of a small wireless facility in a right- of-way in a district or area that is
zoned for single-family residential use or within a historic district
established by Federal or State law or City ordinance as of the date of
application for a small wireless facility permit.
   B.   Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless: 1) such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and 2) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   C.   Delay Penalty: In accordance with Minnesota Rule 7819.1000 subp. 3 and
notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the City shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   D.   Permit Display: Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City. (Ord. 519, 1-16-
2018)
8-7-9: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Application for a permit is made to the City. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
      1.   Registration with the City pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities.
      3.   Payment of money due the City for:
         a.   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
         b.   Prior obstructions or excavations;
         c.   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the City;
         d.   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      4.   Payment of disputed amounts due the City by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the amount owing.
      5.   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the City deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-10: ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permit Issuance: If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City shall issue a permit.
   B.   Conditions: The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance
of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, State, and Federal laws, including but not limited to Minnesota Statutes
sections 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minnesota
Rule, chapter 7560.
   C.   Small Wireless Facility Conditions: In addition to subsection B of this
section, the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the
collocation of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small
wireless facility in the right- of-way, shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the particular
wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications, and at the
height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      2.   No new wireless support structure installed within the right- of-way
shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height without the City's written
authorization, provided that the City may impose a lower height limit in the
applicable permit to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to
protect the right-of-way and its current use, and further provided that a
registrant may replace an existing wireless support structure exceeding fifty
feet (50') in height with a structure of the same height subject to such
conditions or requirements as may be imposed in the applicable permit.
      3.   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet (10') above its
wireless support structure.
      4.   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the City may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of- way.
      5.   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the City may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      6.   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support structure,
the City may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or relocation
requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      7.   Where an applicant proposes to install a small wireless facility in
a single-family residential or historic zoned district, the City requires an
additional special or conditional use permit.
   D.   Small-Wireless-Facility Agreement: A small-wireless-facility permit
shall only be issued after the applicant has executed a standard Small-
Wireless-Facility Collocation and Lease Agreement with the City. The standard
collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
      1.   Up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year for rent to
collocate on the City structure.
      2.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for maintenance associated
with the collocation;
      3.   If the provider obtains electrical service through the City, a
monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
         a.   Seventy three dollars ($73.00) per radio node less than or equal
to one hundred (100) maximum watts;
         b.   One hundred eighty two dollars ($182.00) per radio node over one
hundred (100) maximum watts; or
         c.   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual cost exceed the
foregoing.
The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
the required small-wireless-facility permit, provided, however, that the
applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or franchise
in order to collocate. Issuance of a small-wireless-facility permit does not
supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the City and
applicant. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-11: ACTION ON SMALL-WIRELESS-FACILITY PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Deadline For Action: The City shall approve or deny a small- wireless-
facility permit application within ninety (90) days after filing of such
application. The small-wireless-facility permit, and any associated building
permit application, shall be deemed approved if the City fails to approve or
deny the application within the review periods established in this section.
   B.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant may file a consolidated small-
wireless-facility permit application addressing the proposed collocation of up
to fifteen (15) small wireless facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by
a local government unit, provided that all small wireless facilities in the
application:
      1.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
      2.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
      3.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the City may
approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not use denial
of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless facilities in the
application.
   C.   Tolling Of Deadline: The 90-day deadline for action on a small-
wireless-facility permit application may be tolled if:
      1.   The City receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than thirty (30) small wireless facilities within
a seven-day period. In such case, the City may extend the deadline for all such
applications by thirty (30) days by informing the affected applicants in
writing of such extension.
      2.   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the City provides written notice of incompleteness, with specificity as to
the missing information, to the applicant within thirty (30) days of receipt of
the application. Upon submission of additional documents or information, the
City shall have ten (10) days to notify the applicant in writing of any still-
missing information.
      3.   The City and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing to
toll the review period. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-12: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Excavation Permit Fee: The City shall impose an excavation permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      1.   The City management costs;
      2.   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   B.   Obstruction Permit Fee: The City shall impose an obstruction permit fee
in an amount sufficient to recover the City management costs.
   C.   Small Wireless Facility Permit Fee: The City shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      1.   Management costs, and;
      2.   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated with
collocation of small wireless facilities.
      3.   Legal fees incurred by the City.
   D.   Payment Of Permit Fees: No excavation permit, obstruction permit,
small-wireless-facility permit, or conditional use permit shall be issued
without payment of corresponding permit fees. The City may allow applicant to
pay such fees within thirty (30) days of billing.
   E.   Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
has revoked for a breach as stated in section
8-7-22 of this chapter are not refundable.
   F.   Application To Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise. (Ord. 519, 1-
16-2018)
8-7-13: PATCHING AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Timing: The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under
section
8-7-16 of this chapter.
   B.   Patch And Restoration: Permittee shall patch its own work. The City may
choose either to have the permittee restore the right- of-way or to restore the
right-of-way itself.
      1.   City Restoration: If the City restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If, following
such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling,
the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, all
costs associated with correcting the defective work.
      2.   Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right-of- way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Rule 7819.3000.
      3.   Degradation Fee In Lieu Of Restoration: In lieu of right-of- way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   C.   Standards: The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the City and shall comply with Minnesota Rule 7819.1100.
   D.   Duty To Correct Defects: The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the City, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the City. Said work shall be
completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
City, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under section
8-7-16 of this chapter.
   E.   Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-
of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-14: JOINT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time. Registrants
may not jointly apply for small-wireless- facility or conditional-use permits.
   B.   Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same obstruction
or excavation, which the City does not perform, may share in the payment of the
obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint permit,
registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay and
indicate the same on their applications.
   C.   With City Projects: Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application by
two (2) or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay
the excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-15: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Limitation On Area: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area of
the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee
which determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area: 1) apply for
a permit extension and pay any additional fees required thereby, and 2) be
granted a new permit or permit extension.
   B.   Limitation On Dates: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-16: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Other Laws: Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, State and Federal laws, including but not limited to Minnesota Statutes
sections 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minnesota
Rule, chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   B.   Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   C.   Interference With Right-Of-Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   D.   Trenchless Excavation: As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D and Minnesota Rule, chapter 7560 and shall
require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating, as determined by the Director. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-17: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Reasons For Denial: The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the City determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   B.   Procedural Requirements: The denial of a permit must be made in writing
and must document the basis for the denial. The City must notify the applicant
or right-of-way user in writing within three (3) business days of the decision
to deny a permit. If an application is denied, the right-of-way user may cure
the deficiencies identified by the City and resubmit its application. If the
application is resubmitted within thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice of
denial, no additional application fee shall be imposed. The City must approve
or deny the resubmitted application within thirty (30) days after submission.
(Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-18: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota Rule
7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as
they are not inconsistent with the Minnesota Statutes, sections 237.162 and
237.163. Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance with
Minnesota Rule, chapter 7560 and these ordinances. Service lateral installation
is further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the City
in the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in subsection 8-7-23B of
this chapter. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-19: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
with Minnesota Rule 7819.1300.
   B.   Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the worksite available to the
City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   C.   Authority Of Public Works Director:
      1.   At the time of inspection, the Public Works Director may order the
immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety, or well-being of the public.
      2.   The Public Works Director may issue an order to the permittee for
any work that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to
section
8-7-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-20: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
(2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
If the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's facilities,
the City will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   B.   Non-Emergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
Code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-21: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known. (Ord. 519, 1-16-
2018)
8-7-22: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Substantial Breach: The City reserves its right, as provided herein, to
revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a substantial
breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or
regulation, or any material condition of the permit or relevant agreement. A
substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit.
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens.
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit.
      4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee's control.
      5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to section
8-7-19 of this chapter.
   B.   Written Notice Of Breach: If the City determines that the permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the City shall
follow the procedural requirements of subsection 8-7-17B of this chapter. In
addition, the demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the
City, at its discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the
permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   C.   Response To Notice Of Breach: Within twenty four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the City with a
plan, acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure
to so contact the City, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   D.   Cause For Probation: From time to time, the City may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   E.   Automatic Revocation: If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   F.   Reimbursement Of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-23: MAPPING DATA:
   A.   Information Required: Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minnesota Rule
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within ninety (90) days following completion of any
work pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate
maps and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment
installed, owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall
include the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment
and shall be provided consistent with the City's electronic mapping system,
when practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide
maps and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the
permit holder's registration.
   B.   Service Laterals: All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota Rule
7560.0150, subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this subsection B and with applicable Gopher State
One Call Law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005, shall be a condition of any City approval necessary for:
      1.   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under Minnesota Statutes chapter 429, and
      2.   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under Minnesota Statutes chapter 462. The Director shall
reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such information to
the City. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the
work or future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors. (Ord.
519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-24: LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Location: Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply
with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minnesota Rule 7819.3100,
7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority
otherwise available to cities. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
   B.   Corridors: The City may assign a specific area within the right-of-way,
or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the City shall, no later than at the time of
the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities are
located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-way,
unless this requirement is waived by the City for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the registrant.
   C.   Nuisance: One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   D.   Limitation Of Space: To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of- way and its current use, the
City shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
City shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of- way, and future City plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest. (Ord. 532, 9-
17-2018)
8-7-25: PRE-EVACUATION FACILITIES LOCATION:
In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes 216D.01 -
.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any right-
of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area
to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than twenty inches (20")
below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the
excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the
best procedure for excavation. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-26: DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES:
When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to maintain,
support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the City shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The costs
associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
City's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-27: VACATION AND RESERVATION OF RIGHT:
If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of- way are governed
by Minnesota Rule 7819.3200. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-28: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By registering with the City, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance
with the provisions of Minnesota Rule 7819.1250. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-29: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES:
   A.   Discontinued Operations: A registrant who has determined to discontinue
all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide information
satisfactory to the City that the registrant's obligations for its facilities
in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by another
registrant.
   B.   Removal: Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the City. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-30: APPEAL:
A right-of-way user that: a) has been denied registration; b) has been denied a
permit; c) has had a permit revoked; d) believes that the fees imposed are not
in conformity with Minnesota Statutes section 237.163, subd. 6; or e) disputes
a determination of the Director of Public Works regarding subsection 8-7-23B of
this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting, provided
the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to include
the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council affirming
the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and supported by
written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision. (Ord. 519, 1-
16-2018)
8-7-31: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
City to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 519, 1-16-2018)
8-7-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this chapter precludes the City from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law. (Ord.
519, 1-16-2018)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: State Building Code
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Implementation And Enforcement
9-1-4: Permit Requirements
9-1-5: Licensed Building Contractors
9-1-6: Inspections
9-1-1: STATE BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Codes Adopted By Reference: The Minnesota state building code, as
adopted by the commissioner of administration pursuant to Minnesota statutes
chapter 16B.59 to 16B.75, including all of the amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the
Minnesota commissioner of administration, through the building codes and
standards division is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this chapter. The Minnesota
state building code is hereby incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out
herein.
   B.   Optional Special Fire Suppression Systems Chapter Adopted: The city of
Mendota Heights hereby adopts by reference optional chapter 1306.0020 of the
2015 Minnesota state building code, special fire suppression systems,
exercising subpart 2. One copy of chapter 1306.0020 is filed for reference and
inspection in the office of the city clerk. Every provision contained in said
chapter is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 413, 7-3-2007; amd. Ord. 547, 11-6-2019)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The building department of the city is the "code enforcement department", the
code enforcement officer appointed by the city council is the "building
official administrative authority", and the city council is the "appointing
authority" wherever those terms are used in the building code. (1981 Code 502 §
2)
9-1-3: IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Jurisdiction: The city shall implement and enforce the building code
within the territorial limits of the city.
   B.   Enforcement Official: The code enforcement officer appointed by the
city council is hereby authorized to carry out the implementation and
enforcement of the provisions of the building code and to delegate authority
thereunder to any of his subordinates appointed as such by the city council.
   C.   Right Of Entry: Upon presentation of proper credentials, the code
enforcement officer or his duly authorized representatives may enter at any
reasonable time any building, structure, or premises in the city to perform the
duties imposed upon him by the building code.
   D.   Stop Work Orders: Whenever any work is being performed contrary to the
provisions of the building code, the code enforcement officer may order the
work stopped by written notice served on persons engaged in doing or causing
such work to be performed, and such persons shall forthwith stop such work
until otherwise authorized by the code enforcement officer.
   E.   Occupancy Violations:
      1.   Whenever any building is being used contrary to the provisions of
the building code, the code enforcement officer shall issue notice and order
such use discontinued. The notice and order shall:
         a.   Be in writing.
         b.   Describe the location and nature of the violation.
         c.   Establish a reasonable time for the remedy of any violation.
         d.   Be served upon the owner or his agent or the occupant, as the
case may require.
      2.   Such notice nay be deemed to be properly served upon such owner or
agent, or upon any such occupant, if a copy thereof is either served upon him
personally, or sent by registered mail to his last known address, or if
personal service cannot be made or if no address is known, then such service
shall be made by posting such notice in a conspicuous place in or about such
building. (1981 Code 502 § 2)
   F.   Issuance Of Citations: The city code enforcement officer is hereby
authorized to issue citations for violations of or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 251, 12-15-1987)
   G.   Violations; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
convert, or demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or system in
the city, except an "agricultural building" as defined in Minnesota statutes
section 16B.60, subdivision 6, or cause the same to be done contrary to or in
violation of the provisions of the building code. Any person, firm, or
corporation who does any act which constitutes a violation of the building code
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus the costs of prosecution in any case. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (1981 Code 502 § 2; amd.
2003 Code)
9-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise expressly stated in the building
code, no person, firm, or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure
in the city, except an "agricultural building", as that term is defined in
Minnesota statutes section 16B.60, subdivision 6, or cause the same to be done
without first obtaining an appropriate permit from the code enforcement
officer. (1981 Code 502 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Approval Of Plans: All building construction plans submitted with an
application for a building permit shall be signed as being approved by a
registered architect or engineer. Single- and two-family structures (including
detached garages or accessory structures) are excepted from this requirement.
   C.   Investigation Of Applicant; Payment Of Fees; Issuance Of Permit:
      1.   The application, plans and specifications filed in support of a
permit shall be reviewed by the code enforcement officer to assure conformance
to the requirements of the building code and compliance with other laws and
ordinances of the city.
      2.   Upon payment of the permit fee and state surcharge provided
therefor, the code enforcement officer shall formally endorse the submitted
plans and specifications as "Approved" and shall issue a permit therefor to the
applicant.
      3.   Approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified, or
altered during construction or installation without authorization from the code
enforcement officer.
      4.   The code enforcement officer may issue a partial permit for the
construction or installation of a part of a building or system before the
complete plans and specifications have been submitted; provided, that adequate
information and detailed statements have been submitted complying with
pertinent requirements of the building code. The issuance of such a partial
permit shall not represent unqualified assurance that a permit for the entire
building or system will be issued.
      5.   The issuance of a permit shall under no circumstances be construed
as a license to violate any of the provisions of the building code. The
issuance of a permit based upon erroneous or ambiguous plans and specifications
shall not be deemed to constitute approval to violate provisions of the
building code or of any other ordinances of the city. (1981 Code 502 § 3)
   D.   Expiration Of Permit:
      1.   Every permit issued by the code enforcement officer under the
provisions of the building code shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within
one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such permit, or if the building
or work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a consecutive
period of one hundred eighty (180) days at any time after the work is
commenced.
      2.   Building permits issued under the building code for any type of
construction in residentially zoned districts within the city shall expire one
year after issuance. This time limit may be extended in six (6) month intervals
by the city council; provided, that application for such extension of time has
been made in writing previous to the expiration of said permit, but in no event
shall the permit be effective unless the work covered by the permit is
completed within twenty four (24) months of the date on which the original
permit was issued.
   E.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The code enforcement officer may,
in writing, suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of the
building code whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of
incorrect information supplied, or in the case of violation of any ordinance or
regulation or any of the provisions of the building code. (Ord. 328, 2-2-1999)
9-1-5: LICENSED BUILDING CONTRACTORS:
Before any person shall engage in the business of doing any of the work listed
in the building code, he shall first obtain a license to do so as provided for
by the licensing regulations of the city 1 ; except, that a license shall not
be required when the owner/occupant of any property repairs, alters, converts,
or erects a structure without remuneration and such work is done solely upon
the premises owned and occupied by said person or persons. All such work shall
require a building permit and other applicable permits and shall conform to all
applicable provisions of the building code or other applicable codes. (1981
Code 502 § 3)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 4 of this code.
9-1-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Required:
      1.   All work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the code enforcement officer and his representatives. The code
enforcement officer may require the permittee to employ an approved, qualified
special inspector who shall work under the jurisdiction of the code enforcement
officer in inspecting construction work involving specialized knowledge and
skill.
      2.   Permittees shall cooperate with the code enforcement officer in
calling for inspections on those segments of the work as determined by the code
enforcement officer.
      3.   No reinforcing steel or structural framework or other system work
shall be covered or concealed without first obtaining the approval of the code
enforcement officer.
      4.   There shall be a final inspection and approval of all buildings and
systems when completed and ready for occupancy and use.
   B.   Notice To Correct: Should the code enforcement officer find that the
construction or alteration for which a permit was issued is not proceeding
according to the plans and specifications submitted to him, he shall give
written notice to the person to whom such permit was granted or the person in
charge of such construction or alteration of such finding, and of the
particulars in which such plans or specifications are not being complied with,
whereupon such construction or alteration shall be made to conform to said
plans and specifications.
   C.   Failure To Correct; Permit Revocation: If, after such notice, the
corrections are not made to make such construction or alteration conform to
such plans and specifications, the code enforcement officer shall revoke the
permit by a written notice to be given to the person to whom such permit was
granted or to the person in charge of such construction or alteration. (1981
Code 502 § 3)
CHAPTER 2
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Permit Requirements
9-2-4: Requirements In All Zoning Districts
9-2-5: Requirements In Single-Family Residential Districts
9-2-6: Requirements For Multiple-Family Dwellings
9-2-7: Enforcement Of Provisions
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life
or limb, health, property, and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of all swimming pools within the city, and certain equipment
specifically regulated herein. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
FENCE HEIGHT: "Fence height" shall be measured at a point six inches (6") below
the top of the supporting posts or the top of the material between the
supporting posts, whichever is greater.
SWIMMING POOL: Any structure, chamber, or tank containing an artificial body of
water for swimming, diving, relaxation, or recreational use including special
purpose pools and wading pools, having a water surface area exceeding one
hundred (100) square feet and a water depth greater than eighteen inches (18")
at any point. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992; amd. Ord. 382, 6-3-2003)
9-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No swimming pool shall be constructed, excavated or
erected within the city without first obtaining a building permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a building permit shall
include:
      1.   The type and size of pool.
      2.   A site plan indicating the following: location of pool; location of
house, garage, fencing and other improvements on the lot; location of filter
unit, pump, and wiring indicating the type of such units; location of
structures on adjacent lots; location of backflush and drainage outlets;
grading plan; finished elevations and final treatment (decking, landscaping,
etc.) around pool; location of existing overhead or underground wiring, utility
easements, trees and similar features; location of any water heating unit.
(Ord. 283, 5-19-1992)
9-2-4: REQUIREMENTS IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Precautions During Construction:
      1.   In the case of underground pools, precautions shall be taken during
construction to:
         a.   Avoid damage, hazards or inconvenience to adjacent or nearby
property.
         b.   Assure that proper care shall be taken in stockpiling excavated
material to avoid erosion, dust or other infringements upon adjacent property.
      2.   All access for construction shall be over the owner's land, and due
care shall be taken to avoid damage to public streets and adjacent private or
public property. The owner shall be liable for damages caused to any public or
private property.
   B.   Location Of Pools:
      1.   Pools shall not be located within ten feet (10'), measured
horizontally, from overhead or underground utility lines of any type.
      2.   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage or other easement.
   C.   Fences, Gates And Screening:
      1.   The pool area shall be enclosed with fencing to effectively prevent
the entrance of children and be without handholds or footholds that would
enable a child to climb over it or pass through it. The fence shall be at least
five feet (5') in height, but not exceeding six feet (6'), to prevent
uncontrolled access from the street or adjacent property. Where horizontal
fence members are less than forty five inches (45") apart, vertical spacing
shall not exceed one and three- quarter inches (13/4"). Where horizontal
members are equal to or more than forty five inches (45") apart, vertical
spacing shall not exceed four inches (4"), spaced so that a four inch (4")
sphere cannot pass through. The spacing between the bottom of the fence and
grade shall not exceed four inches (4").
      2.   Fences shall have self-closing and self-latching gates with
provisions for locking and shall be completely installed prior to the filling
of the pool. Spacing between the bottom of fence gates and grade shall not
exceed four inches (4"). The gate release mechanism shall be placed a minimum
of fifty four inches (54") above the bottom of the gate.
      3.   Where the fence encloses only the swimming pool area, adequate
screening, including, but not limited to, landscaping, shall be placed between
the pool area and adjacent single-family district lot lines.
   D.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls shall be designed to resist the
lateral pressure of the retained material in accordance with accepted
engineering practice. Walls retaining drained earth may be designed for
pressure equivalent to that exerted by a fluid weighing not less than thirty
(30) pounds per cubic foot and having a depth equal to that of the retained
earth.
   E.   Lighting Of Pool Area: Pool lighting shall be directed toward the pool
and not toward adjacent property. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992)
   F.   Quality Of Pool Water: Pool water shall be maintained in a suitable
manner to avoid health hazards of any type. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
   G.   Drainage Of Water: To the extent feasible, backflush water or water
from pool drainage shall be directed onto the owner's property or into approved
public drainageways and shall not drain onto adjacent private land. Drainage
onto public streets or other public drainageways shall require permission of
the appropriate local city officials.
   H.   Nuisances Prohibited: Nuisances such as undue noise, lighting of
adjacent property, health and safety hazards, damage to nearby vegetation and
the like shall not be permitted.
   I.   Inspections: All wiring, installation of heating units, grading,
installation of pipes and all other installations and construction shall be
subject to inspection.
   J.   Variances: Any proposed deviation from these standards and requirements
shall require a variance in accordance with normal zoning procedures. (Ord.
283, 5-19-1992)
9-2-5: REQUIREMENTS IN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Private swimming pools in single-family residential districts shall adhere to
the following regulations:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Pools shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any rear lot
line or within ten feet (10') of any side lot line nor within ten feet (10') of
any principal structure or of any frost footing.
      2.   Pools shall not be located within any required front yard.
   B.   Noise Control: The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other
noisemaking mechanical equipment shall be located at least twenty five feet
(25') from any adjacent or nearby residential structure and not closer than
eight feet (8') to any lot line. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992)
9-2-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
Private swimming pools which are intended for and used by the occupants of a
multiple-family dwelling and the guests of the occupants of such dwelling shall
adhere to the following regulations:
   A.   Location: No part of the water surface of the swimming pool shall be
closer than fifty feet (50') to any lot line.
   B.   Noise Control: No pumps, filter or other apparatus used in connection
with or to service a swimming pool shall be located closer than forty feet
(40') to any lot line.
   C.   Decks And Patios: All deck areas, adjacent patios or other similar
areas used in conjunction with the swimming pool shall be located at least
forty feet (40') from any lot line in an adjacent single-family district. (Ord.
283, 5-19-1992)
9-2-7: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Official; Citations: The city code enforcement officer
shall be charged with the enforcement of this chapter, and is hereby authorized
to issue citations for violations of or refusal to comply with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 283, 5-19-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permits Required
9-3-2: Application For Permit; Fee
9-3-3: Performance Bond; Improvement Requirements
9-3-4: Inspections; Approval For Moving
9-3-5: Conditions Of Permit
9-3-6: Duties Of Permittee
9-3-7: Enforcement Of Provisions
9-3-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Building Moving Permit: No person, firm, or corporation shall move any
building, house or structure within the corporate limits of the city without
first obtaining a building moving permit from the city for each such building,
house or structure.
   B.   Building Permit: No permit shall be issued for the moving of a
building, house or structure to a location within the corporate limits of the
city until a building permit has been obtained from the city for placing,
remodeling, completing or repairing such building, house or structure at its
proposed new location. (1981 Code 501 § 1)
9-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
To obtain a building moving permit, the applicant shall file an application
therefor in writing on a form furnished by the city for that purpose. There
shall be filed with such application an application fee as set by resolution of
the city council. Each such application shall: (1981 Code 501 § 2; amd. 2003
Code)
   A.   Describe the land from which such building, house or structure is to be
moved by lot, block, tract and house or street address or such other or similar
type description as will readily identify and locate such building, house or
structure.
   B.   Describe the present use of all parts of such building, house or
structure as well as the proposed use of such building, house or structure
after it is so moved.
   C.   Set forth the names and addresses of all contractors or subcontractors
to be used in moving such building, house or structure.
   D.   Set forth the names and addresses of all contractors or subcontractors
intended to be used in placing, remodeling, completing or repairing any such
building, house, or structure intended to be moved to a location within the
corporate limits of the city.
   E.   Describe the equipment to be used in moving such building, house or
structure.
   F.   Such other information as may be required by the city code enforcement
officer. (1981 Code 501 § 2)
9-3-3: PERFORMANCE BOND; IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Before a building moving permit shall be issued providing for the moving of a
building, house or structure to a location within the corporate limits of the
city, the applicant must provide the city with a performance bond in form
satisfactory to the city guaranteeing that the applicant will promptly complete
construction of the house, building, or structure so moved so that the same
will meet all of the provisions of the city building code as well as any other
applicable ordinances of the city. Such performance bond shall be in an amount
equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the cost as determined by the city
code enforcement officer necessary to cover the construction of such
improvements. The improvements of said building, house or structure shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Painting: Painting all exterior walls, doors and door frames, windows
and window frames as required by the city code enforcement officer.
   B.   Roofing: Install or cause to be installed new roofing whenever, in the
opinion of the city code enforcement officer, the existing roof is unsightly,
dilapidated or leaking.
   C.   Gutters: Construct, install or cause to be installed adequate roof
gutters and downspouts upon such building, house or structure.
   D.   Grading And Sodding: Install or cause to be installed a finish grade on
all parts of the premises onto which such building, house or structure is moved
including the planting or installation of live sodding on all parts of the plot
or parcel involved.
   E.   Landscaping: Install or cause to be installed proper landscaping upon
the premises onto which such building, house or structure is moved of a type
and nature comparable to the landscaping in the immediate neighborhood of the
lot or property to which such building, house or structure is moved.
   F.   Drainage: Construct and provide all necessary and proper drainage upon
the property upon which such building, house or structure is to be situated in
accordance with a plan submitted by the applicant and approved by the city code
enforcement officer.
   G.   General Construction: Update and improve all plumbing, heating and
electrical equipment to meet then current specifications as set forth in the
city building code as well as other applicable ordinances. (1981 Code 501 § 5)
9-3-4: INSPECTIONS; APPROVAL FOR MOVING:
Before moving a building, house or structure within the corporate limits of the
city, such building, house or structure must first be inspected and approved
for moving by the city code enforcement officer. No building moving permit
shall be granted if the city code enforcement officer determines that any of
the following conditions exist:
   A.   The building, house or structure proposed to be moved is too large to
move without endangering persons or property within the city.
   B.   The building, house or structure proposed to be moved is in such a
state of deterioration or disrepair or is too structurally unsafe that it
cannot be moved without endangering persons or property within the city.
   C.   The applicant's equipment proposed to be used in moving such building,
house or structure is unsafe, and persons or property within the city would be
endangered by its use.
   D.   Any of the requirements of this chapter have not been complied with.
(1981 Code 501 § 3)
9-3-5: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Architecture: No building moving permit shall be issued under the
provisions of this chapter providing for the moving of a building, house, or
structure to a location within the corporate limits of the city unless and
until the code enforcement officer is satisfied that the building, house or
structure proposed to be moved conforms to the general character and type of
architecture consistent with the immediate neighborhood of the lot or property
to which said building, house, or structure is proposed to be moved.
   B.   Licensed Mover Required: No building, house or structure shall be moved
within the corporate limits of the city except by a mover duly licensed under
the applicable provisions of the Minnesota statutes.
   C.   Surety Bond: Any person applying for a permit to move a building within
the corporate limits of the city may be required by the city council to furnish
the city with a surety bond in an amount sufficient to guarantee that any
damage of any kind to public property, right of way, streets or utilities shall
be promptly and completely repaired or replaced in a manner satisfactory to the
city at the expense of such applicant.
   D.   Insurance: Each applicant for a permit to move a building over any
street or public right of way must satisfy the code enforcement officer that he
is provided with sufficient and adequate insurance to protect the city and the
public from any and all damages which may result, either directly or
indirectly, from the moving of said building. (1981 Code 501 § 6)
9-3-6: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Days And Hours: The person to whom a building moving permit is granted
may move such building, house or structure covered by such permit only on the
day or days and during the hours specifically set forth in the building moving
permit. Any change in such date or hours must be approved by the city code
enforcement officer in writing. The city police department and public works
department shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours before moving
commences.
   B.   Warning Devices: While moving any such building, house or structure
upon, across or over any street, alley, or public place, there shall be
displayed thereon appropriate warning lights, red flags and the like as to show
the extreme height and width of such building, house or structure.
   C.   Restoration Of Site From Which Moved; Safety Measures:
      1.   When the building, house or structure which is to be moved is
situated on property located within the corporate limits of the city, all
rubbish and materials shall be removed from the original building site of such
building, house or structure, and the excavation at such original site must be
filled to existing grade so that such premises are left in a safe and sanitary
condition.
      2.   When the building, house, or structure which is to be moved is
situated on property located within the corporate limits of the city, all
foundation structures on the original site of such building, house or structure
shall be removed to a depth of eighteen inches (18") below the finished grade
of the lot. The requirements of this subsection C2 must be completed within
five (5) days after such building, house or structure is moved, but in all
cases, until such work has been completed, an appropriate barricade shall be
placed around all excavation, and the area must otherwise be maintained in a
safe condition. (1981 Code 501 § 4)
9-3-7: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Issue Citations: The city code enforcement officer is
hereby authorized to issue citations for violations of or refusal to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 251, 12-15-1987)
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 501 § 8; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Numbers Required; Location
9-4-2: Specifications
9-4-3: Maintenance Of Numbering System; Issuance Of Numbers
9-4-4: Penalty
9-4-1: NUMBERS REQUIRED; LOCATION:
   A.   For the proper identification of all houses and structures within the
city, the official house or building number, which shall be obtained by the
owner from the code enforcement officer, shall be placed and maintained on each
house or structure by its owner at or near the front entrance of such house or
structure in such a manner that the number may be easily and clearly seen and
read from the public street. If it is not practical to place said number at or
near the building entrance, it shall be placed and maintained by the owner in
such other suitable location that it can be clearly seen from the public
street. (1981 Code 1505 § 1)
   B.   In cases where a house or other structure is also served primarily from
a public alley, the official number shall also be placed and maintained at or
near the rear entrance of such house or structure in such a manner that the
number may be easily and clearly seen and read from said public alley. (1981
Code 1505 § 2)
9-4-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
The house number shall consist of a series of figures with a minimum height of
four inches (4"), the surface of which shall be covered with a reflective
coating. (1981 Code 1505 § 3)
9-4-3: MAINTENANCE OF NUMBERING SYSTEM; ISSUANCE OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Maintenance Of Numbering System; Records Kept: The code enforcement
officer shall be responsible for maintaining the numbering system for the city
and shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this chapter.
   B.   Issuance Of Numbers: The code enforcement officer shall issue to any
property owner upon request and without charge a number for each principal
building or separate front entrance to such building. The code enforcement
officer shall issue only the number assigned to such building under the
provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that the code enforcement
officer may issue additional numbers in accordance with the official numbering
system whenever a property has been subdivided, a new front entrance opened, or
undue hardship has resulted to any property owner. (1981 Code 1505 § 4)
9-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 1505 § 5; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ESCROW DEPOSITS FOR ENGINEERING STUDIES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Public Utilities Serving More Than One Parcel
9-5-2: Public Utilities On Private Property For Townhouses, Condominiums Or
Apartments
9-5-1: PUBLIC UTILITIES SERVING MORE THAN ONE PARCEL:
   A.   Deposit Required: Whenever a person, firm or corporation (hereinafter
referred to as a "developer") petitions the city council requesting a
feasibility study on construction of public utilities to serve property
consisting of more than one lot or parcel, there shall be paid to the city by
said developer:
      1.   An escrow deposit equal to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for
each lot or parcel in a proposed residential development; or
      2.   In those instances in which the city determines that unusual
circumstances exist, such escrow deposit shall be in an amount equal to one and
one-half (11/2) times the city engineer's estimate of the cost of preparing
said engineering feasibility study. (1981 Code 1508 § 1)
   B.   Return Of Deposit:
      1.   If, as the result of such engineering feasibility study,
construction of all or any part of such improvements commences within two (2)
years from the date of the completion of such engineering feasibility study,
such escrow deposit shall be returned to the developer, without interest, after
a construction contract has been awarded for said improvements by the city.
      2.   If such improvements are not commenced by the city within two (2)
years after the date of the completion of such engineering feasibility study,
the developer shall have no further interest therein and may request final
disposition as follows:
         a.   If the actual engineering costs are less than the escrow deposit,
the remainder of the escrow, without interest, shall be returned to the
developer.
         b.   If the actual engineering costs are greater than said escrow
deposit, the developer shall be billed for the unpaid balance. (1981 Code 1508
§ 2)
9-5-2: PUBLIC UTILITIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR TOWNHOUSES, CONDOMINIUMS OR
APARTMENTS:
   A.   Deposit Required: If a developer requests permission to construct
public utilities on private property for a townhouse, condominium or apartment
development or any other nonresidential land development, prior to the
commencement of such construction, there shall be deposited with the city an
escrow deposit equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the estimated engineering
and associated professional costs expected to be incurred by the city with
respect to said development.
   B.   Return of Deposit:
      1.   If development costs, including engineering and professional costs,
are assessed against benefited properties in such development (whether
requested by the developer or not), such escrow deposit shall be returned to
the developer, without interest, upon adoption by the city of a resolution
providing for the levying of such special assessment.
      2.   If such development improvements are not commenced within two (2)
years after the date of completion of such engineering feasibility study, the
developer shall have no further interest therein, and may request final
disposition as follows:
         a.   If the actual engineering costs are less than the escrow deposit,
the remainder of the escrow, without interest, shall be returned to the
developer.
         b.   If the actual engineering costs are greater than said escrow
deposits, the developer shall be billed for the unpaid balance. (1981 Code 1508
§ 3)
CHAPTER 6
FEES AND ESCROW ACCOUNT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Fees
9-6-2: Escrow Accounts
9-6-3: Municipal Planning Fees
9-6-1: FEES:
   A.   Paid In Accordance With City Fee Schedule: Except as otherwise stated
in this code, the fees for the various licenses, permits, services,
inspections, re-inspections, and functions rendered shall be paid in accordance
with the city fee schedule, as adopted by resolution by the city council. In
the case of violations to this code, the violator and the property owner of
record, where applicable, shall be responsible for any city costs in enforcing
the provisions of this code, including re-inspection fees or other fees,
charges, or penalties that are imposed as permitted by law.
   B.   Permit Fee Refund Policy: The building official may authorize refunding
of not more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has
been done under a permit issued in accordance with the building code. The
building official may authorize refunding of not more than eighty percent (80%)
of the plan review fee paid when an application for a permit for which a plan
review has been paid is withdrawn or canceled before any plan reviewing is
done. The building official shall not authorize refunding of any fee paid
except on written application filed by the original permittee not later than
one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment. (Ord. 474, 3-17-
2015; amd. Ord. 588, 5-7-2024)
9-6-2: ESCROW ACCOUNTS:
   A.   When it is determined by the city that the complexity or size of a
project, subdivision, rezoning, conditional use permit or plat will necessitate
the outside review or involvement of consultants to the city, a cash escrow may
be required.
   B.   An escrow agreement will be prepared stating the amount required to be
deposited, the manner in which funds will be disbursed, the manner in which
exhausted funds will be replenished and the manner in which unexpended funds
will be refunded. The initial deposit of funds shall be based on the type or
magnitude of the project as follows:
      1.   Privately Installed Municipal Improvements: The cash escrow shall
represent seventeen percent (17%) of the city engineer's estimate of project
cost.
      2.   Privately Installed Or Privately Owned Improvements: The cash escrow
shall represent six percent (6%) of the city engineer's estimate of project
cost.
      3.   Legal Work: The cash escrow shall represent at least the equivalent
of three (3) hours of legal work, at the then current rate charged by the
city's attorneys. (Ord. 388, 1-6-2004)
9-6-3: MUNICIPAL PLANNING FEES:
The city may prescribe fees sufficient to defray the costs incurred by it in
reviewing, investigating and administering an application for an amendment to
an official control or an application for a permit or other approval required
under an official control established pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter
462. All fees shall be as set forth in a rate schedule duly adopted by the city
council. The term "official control" has the meaning as set forth in Minnesota
statutes chapter 462. (Ord. 388, 1-6-2004)
TITLE 10
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: Franchise Or Contract Agreement Required For Construction Permit
10-1-3: Violation
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
CLEAR WATER: Stormwater; natural precipitation; melting snow; groundwater;
water flow from a roof, ground surface, subsurface drainage, downspout, eave
trough, rainspout, yard drain, sump pump, foundation drain, yard fountain,
pond, swimming pool, air conditioning condensate, cistern overflow, or any
other water that is not required to be treated by state or federal law.
FRANCHISE OR LIKE KIND OF AGREEMENT: A written contract setting forth the terms
and conditions under which the utility may operate or specifying the mutual
obligations of the parties relative to the product or services to be furnished
to persons or property within the city of Mendota Heights.
PRODUCT OR SERVICE: A utility furnishing electrical, natural gas, telephone,
cable television, or municipal water to persons or property within the city of
Mendota Heights.
UTILITY: Any public or private organization or entity that is providing a
product or service to persons or property within the city for a monetary
service fee or charge. (Ord. 359, 5-15-2001; amd. Ord. 496, 6-7-2016)
10-1-2: FRANCHISE OR CONTRACT AGREEMENT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION PERMIT:
No utility shall be entitled to receive a permit of any kind for the purpose of
expanding or constructing new facilities or existing infrastructure for the
improvement of service or to meet its business needs within the city limits
without such utility having a current franchise or like kind of contractual
agreement in full force and effect with the city. (Ord. 359, 5-15-2001)
10-1-3: VIOLATION:
Any person or entity failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 359, 5-15-2001)
CHAPTER 2
WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Administration Of Provisions
10-2-2: Application For Services; Permit Requirements
10-2-3: Inspections
10-2-4: Reserved
10-2-5: Excavations
10-2-6: Implied Consent To Provisions; Nonliability Of City
10-2-7: Violation; Penalty
10-2-1: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Water And Sewer Department Established: There is hereby established a
water and sewer department for the city.
   B.   Operation And Maintenance Of System: The water and sewer systems as
they are now constituted or as shall hereafter be enlarged or extended shall be
operated and maintained under the provisions of this title subject to the
authority of the city council at any time to amend, alter, change or repeal the
same. (1981 Code 802 § 1)
   C.   City Of Saint Paul Code Adopted: The city hereby adopts title XI of the
legislative code of the city of Saint Paul, and all modifications thereof
hereafter duly adopted, and by this reference incorporates said title XI into
chapter 5, "Water System", of this title as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 495, 4-19-2016)
10-2-2: APPLICATION FOR SERVICES; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Services: No person, firm or corporation shall proceed
with the construction, enlargement, alteration, or repair or make any type of
connection to the water system, sanitary sewer system, or storm sewer system
except upon making an application therefor on a form provided by the city and
receiving a permit issued by the city for such purposes.
   B.   Fees And Charges:
      1.   Permit Fee: The applicant shall pay to the city clerk a permit fee
in an amount established from time to time by resolution of the city council
for any water connection and any sewer connection.
      2.   Street Surface Restoration Charge: In addition to the foregoing
where application is made for connection to the sanitary sewer system or water
system, a street surface restoration charge shall be collected in an amount
established from time to time by resolution of the city council.
      3.   Nonresidential Connections: Fees for the connection of
nonresidential uses shall be based upon schedules as determined by the city
council with the assistance of the city engineer. (1981 Code 802 § 2)
10-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections Generally: The code enforcement officer shall examine all
applications before construction is begun, and after the construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, or connection is complete, the code
enforcement officer shall be notified. It shall be unlawful to cover any
connecting line until an inspection has been made and such connection and the
work incident thereto has been approved by the city as a proper and suitable
connection. (1981 Code 802 § 3)
   B.   Entry Powers: The city, by any authorized employee or agent, shall have
the right to enter and be admitted to any lands and property in the city for
the purpose of making inspection of materials, taking meter readings, and
making inspections of plumbing work and fixtures of all kinds used by or in
connection with the water and sewer systems. (1981 Code 802 § 6)
10-2-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 495, 4-19-2016)
10-2-5: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Supervision: All connections or installation work or repair of
connections to the water and sewer systems including grades, bends and
backfilling shall be performed under the direction and supervision of the code
enforcement officer only by persons duly licensed by the city to perform such
work.
   B.   Inspections: No such work shall be covered or backfilled until directed
by the inspector.
   C.   Safety Devices: All such work and excavations shall be protected by
barricades and warning markers and lights reasonable and suitable to the
purpose.
   D.   Restoration Of Surface: All street excavations shall be filled and
compacted as directed by the code enforcement officer. (1981 Code 802 § 6)
10-2-6: IMPLIED CONSENT TO PROVISIONS; NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Every person applying for water or sewer service, every owner of property for
which any such application is made, every person accepting water or sewer
service, and every owner of property where such service is accepted subsequent
to the effective date of this title shall be deemed, upon making such
application or accepting such service, to consent to all rules, regulations,
and rates as established by this title and as may hereafter be set forth and
adopted by the city council by resolution or ordinance, and further shall be
deemed to agree to hold the city harmless from any claim, damage, injury or
loss caused by or in any way arising by reason of or related to their
connection to or repair of their connection to the city water or sewer system,
including, but not limited to, excavation work in connection therewith. (1981
Code 802 § 5)
10-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code 802 § 10, 803 § 9, 809 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-3-1: Rules Adopted
10-3-2: Connection To Sewer System; Abandonment Of Private Systems
10-3-3: Individual Sewage Treatment Systems (ISTS)
10-3-4: General Operation Of Sewer System
10-3-5: Discharges Into Public System
10-3-6: Interceptors
10-3-7: Rates And Charges
10-3-8: Tampering With System
10-3-9: Inspections; Entry Powers
10-3-10: Clear Water Discharge Prevention And Prohibition
10-3-1: RULES ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of Provisions: The waste discharge rules for the metropolitan
disposal system dated December 1978, adopted by the metropolitan council,
together with any amendments thereto to date, are hereby adopted by reference
and made a part of this section as if set out herein in full, except as
hereinafter provided. A copy of said rules marked "Official Copy" is on file in
the office of the city clerk. (1981 Code 809 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Where the provisions of this section conflict
or are inconsistent with any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of
this section shall supersede except in instances where one regulation is more
restrictive than another, in which case, the more restrictive shall apply and
control. (1981 Code 809 § 2)
10-3-2: CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM; ABANDONMENT OF PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
   A.   Required Connections 1 :
      1.   Any buildings used for human habitation and located on property
adjacent to a sewer main, or in a block through or to which the system extends,
shall be connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system within one year from
the time a connection is available to any such property.
      2.   All buildings hereafter constructed within the city on property
adjacent to a sewer main or in a block through or to which the system extends,
shall be connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system for the disposal of
all human waste. (1981 Code 803 § 2)
   B.   Property Outside City Limits: No buildings located on property lying
outside the limits of the city shall be connected to the municipal sanitary
sewer system unless express authorization therefor is obtained from the Mendota
Heights city council. (1981 Code 803 § 6; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Abandonment Of Private Systems: When connection is made to the
community sewer system, all cesspools and septic tanks must be pumped and
filled; if the sewer connection goes over septic tanks or their lines, cast
iron pipe must be used to bridge the trench. (1981 Code 802 § 9; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 12-1D-12A of this code.
10-3-3: INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS (ISTS) 1 :
   A.   Purpose And Scope: The purpose and scope of this section is to
establish guidelines for the maintenance and operation of individual sewage
treatment systems within the city. (Ord. 334, 10-5-1999)
   B.   Application Of County Provisions: In addition to the guidelines set
forth in this section, Dakota County ordinance 113 as approved by the Dakota
County board of commissioners on November 17, 2009, establishing standards for
and the regulation of low individual sewage treatment systems shall apply.
(Ord. 430, 10-5-2010)
   C.   Maintenance And Operation Of An ISTS: For the purpose of this section,
the following rules regarding maintenance and operation of an individual sewage
treatment system shall apply:
      1.   The pumping/inspection of an individual sewage treatment system
shall be performed no more than three (3) years from the previous pumping/
inspection under any circumstance.
      2.   Pumping/inspection shall be performed by a person having a current
MPCA sewage contractor license from the state.
      3.   Upon completion of pumping/inspection, the licensed contractor shall
file a septic maintenance log with the Dakota County environmental management
department.
      4.   Once verification that the required maintenance has occurred, the
city shall issue a statement of compliance in letter form which shall serve as
an operational permit for an additional three (3) years from the date of
maintenance.
      5.   The city shall notify the owner of the individual sewage treatment
system no later than two (2) months before permit expiration that a pumping/
inspection is needed to remain in compliance with this section.
   D.   Expired Permit; Penalties:
      1.   Notice of an expired permit shall be sent to the owner within thirty
(30) days of the expiration date if verification of maintenance has not been
obtained. The owner shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the letter to
become compliant with this section or face a penalty in the amount of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      2.   If, after an additional thirty (30) days, compliance is not met, the
city shall issue another letter indicating the owner is subject to a penalty of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The letter shall also state that
misdemeanor charges will be imposed as provided by Minnesota statutes section
115.03 if compliance is not met within an additional thirty (30) days.
      3.   If, after an additional thirty (30) days, compliance is not met, the
city shall take appropriate legal measures and, upon conviction thereof, the
owner shall be punished as provided by law.
   E.   Imminent Health Threat: If the city obtains information which suggests
a failing septic system exists within city limits, an inspection shall be
ordered by the city and performed by a state licensed inspector chosen by the
city. If the inspection confirms a failed septic system, the owner shall be
notified that the septic system poses an imminent health threat and operation
shall be halted and the individual sewage treatment system shall be pumped
immediately. The owner of the system has the option of replacement,
modification, reconstruction or abandonment of the system according to the
guidelines set forth in Dakota County ordinance 113 as referenced in subsection
B of this section. The owner is prohibited from using the individual sewage
treatment system until the system is brought into compliance with Dakota County
ordinance 113 as referenced in subsection B of this section. If the owner of a
failed individual sewage treatment system fails to comply with this subsection,
subsection D3 of this section shall prevail and be controlling. (Ord. 334, 10-
5-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 12-1D-12B of this code.
10-3-4: GENERAL OPERATION OF SEWER SYSTEM:
The entire municipal sanitary sewer system of the city shall be operated as a
public utility and for the convenience and general welfare of the residents
thereof from which revenues will be derived, subject to the provisions of this
chapter. (1981 Code 803 § 1)
10-3-5: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Certain Wastes Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to discharge any of the following described waters or wastes into the
municipal sanitary sewer system:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150° F).
      2.   Any water or waste containing more than one hundred (100) parts per
million by weight of fat, oil or grease.
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, plastic, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous substance
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the sewer system.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance. (1981 Code 803 § 3)
   B.   Surface Waters: It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be
discharged into the municipal sewer system, either directly, or indirectly, any
"clear water" as defined in section
10-1-1 of this title. (Ord. 496, 6-7-2016)
   C.   Industrial Wastes: It shall be unlawful to discharge into the municipal
sanitary sewer system any industrial wastes unless the prior approval of the
city engineer is obtained. The city engineer shall approve the discharge of
industrial wastes when, in his opinion, the proposed wastes will not be of an
unusual amount or character. When, in the opinion of the city engineer, the
proposed wastes are of an unusual character, the city engineer may approve such
wastes. (1981 Code 803 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
10-3-6: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the city engineer, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any
inflammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that such
interceptors shall not be required for private dwelling units which discharge
only normal wastes therefrom. (1981 Code 803 § 3)
   B.   Specifications: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight. (1981 Code 803 §
3; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Maintenance Required: All grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. (1981 Code 803 § 3)
10-3-7: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Sewer Service Availability And Connection Charge:
      1.   Purpose: The metropolitan council has determined to reserve unused
capacity in the metropolitan disposal system each year commencing in 1973 for
local government units in which new buildings to be connected to the system and
new connections to the system are commenced during such year and to allocate
the debt service costs of such unused capacity for the year among such local
government units. In order for the city to pay such costs allocated to it each
year, it will be necessary to establish sewer service availability and
connection charges for all buildings within the city which are constructed or
connected to the metropolitan disposal system on or after January 1, 1973.
(1981 Code 805 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Charges Established: For the purpose of paying costs of reserve
capacity allocated to the city each year by the metropolitan council, there is
hereby established a charge for:
         a.   The availability of treatment works and interceptors comprising
the metropolitan disposal system; and
         b.   Connections, direct and indirect, to the metropolitan disposal
system.
      3.   Imposition Of Charge: Said charge is hereby imposed on each building
or structure in the city and each connection to the metropolitan disposal
system directly or through the city's system, inside any sewer service area
established by the metropolitan council, construction of which is commenced on
or after January 1, 1973. The charge shall be payable upon the issuance of a
building permit or a connection permit, as the case may be, but no charge shall
be due upon the issuance of a connection permit if a charge was paid upon
issuance of a building permit.
      4.   Determination Of Charge: The charge for each building or structure
shall be equal to the number of units of sewage volume which it will discharge,
multiplied by an amount as established by the metropolitan council for each
year. A "unit" of sewage volume, as that term is used hereunder, shall be
deemed to be one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per year and shall be
assigned as follows: (1981 Code § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
         a.   Single-family houses, townhouses and duplex units shall each
comprise one unit.
         b.   Condominiums and apartments shall each comprise eighty percent
(80%) of a unit.
         c.   Mobile homes shall each comprise eighty percent (80%) of a unit.
         d.   Other buildings and structures shall be assigned one unit for
each one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons of flow or part thereof which it is
estimated they will discharge.
         e.   Units existing or for which building permits were issued prior to
January 1, 1973, shall be counted as one-half (1/2) the unit equivalent for
that type of housing, if connected to the metropolitan disposal system prior to
January 1, 1974, and shall be counted at the full rate thereafter. (1981 Code
805 § 2)
      5.   Collection Of Charge: The city administrator or city clerk shall
prepare or revise building permit or sewage connection permit application forms
to provide information necessary for the computation of the number of units
assignable to the building or structure in question and shall collect the
applicable charge before issuance of a permit. The city shall make such
information available to the metropolitan council upon request. If, upon filing
a report covering such permit with the metropolitan council, the metropolitan
council determines that a greater number of units is assignable to the building
or structure in question, any additional amount of cost allocated to the city
as a result thereof shall be paid by the person or company to whom the permit
was granted. (1981 Code 805 § 3; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Rental Charges:
      1.   Charges Established: The rental charge for the use of the municipal
sewer system by any single-family residence, duplex, multiple-family dwelling,
amenity structure, school, church or public building, commercial or industrial
user shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the city council on
the basis of relevant factors, including, among others, the character and
quarterly volume of sewage waste involved. (1981 Code 803 § 2)
      2.   Payment Of Charges; Delinquencies: Sewer rental charges shall be
paid to the city for each of the quarterly periods ending December 31, March
31, June 30, and September 30 of each year. In the case of a connection to the
municipal sewer system occurring during a quarter, the quarterly charge shall
be prorated from the date of such connection. Payment of such rental charges
for each quarter shall be made to the city by the twenty second day of the
month immediately following the last month of the quarter. If such payment is
not made when due, an additional late charge of two dollars ($2.00) shall be
added to the quarterly payment then due. In the event that such quarterly sewer
rental charges are not paid within thirty (30) days after the mailing of a
statement therefor, the city clerk shall certify the same together with the
late charge set forth above plus an additional certification fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) to the county auditor, and the same shall be collected and the
collection thereof enforced in the same manner, in all respects, as county and
state real estate taxes, subject to like penalty, costs and interest charges.
(Ord. 356, 1-16-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Termination Of Charges: Where a residential property has been
connected to the municipal sanitary sewer system and thereafter such property
is not used or occupied as a residence for a period of at least two (2)
continuous years, there shall be no further municipal sanitary sewer rental
charges levied against said property until such time as said property is sold
or thereafter used or occupied as a residence. (1981 Code 803 § 8)
   C.   Industrial User Strength Charge:
      1.   Purpose And Authority: The metropolitan council, in order to receive
and retain grants in compliance with the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972 and regulations thereunder (the "act"), has determined to
impose an industrial user sewer strength charge upon users of the "metropolitan
disposal system" (as defined in Minnesota statutes section 473.121, subdivision
24) to recover operation and maintenance costs of treatment works attributable
to the strength of the discharge of industrial waste, such sewer strength
charge being in addition to the charge based upon the volume of discharge. In
order for the city to pay such costs based upon strength of industrial
discharge and allocated to it each year by the metropolitan council, such user
charge is hereby found, determined and declared to be necessary for all
industrial users receiving waste treatment services within or served by the
city. Furthermore, Minnesota statutes section 444.075, subdivision 3, empowers
the city to make such sewer charge a charge against the owner, lessee, occupant
or all of them and certify unpaid charges to the county auditor as a tax lien
against the property served. (1981 Code 808 § 1; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Charges Established: For the purpose of paying the costs allocated
to the city each year by the metropolitan council that are based upon the
strength of discharge of all industrial users receiving waste treatment
services within or served by the city, there is hereby approved, adopted and
established, in addition to the sewer charge based upon the volume of
discharge, a sewer charge upon each company or corporation receiving waste
treatment services within or served by the city, based upon strength of
industrial waste discharged into the sewer system of the city (the "strength
charge"). (1981 Code 808 § 2; amd. 2003 Code)
      3.   Determination Of Charge: For the purpose of computation of the
strength charge established by subsection C2 of this section, there is hereby
established, approved and adopted in compliance with the act the same strength
charge formula designated in resolution 76-172 adopted by the governing body of
the metropolitan council on June 15, 1976, such formula being based upon
pollution qualities and difficulty of disposal of the sewage produced through
an evaluation of pollution qualities and quantities in excess of an annual
average base and the proportionate costs of operation and maintenance of waste
treatment services provided by the metropolitan council. (1981 Code 808 § 3;
amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Payment Of Charge; Delinquencies: It is hereby approved, adopted and
established that the strength charge established by subsection C2 of this
section shall be paid by each industrial user receiving waste treatment
services and subject thereto before the twentieth day next succeeding the date
of billing thereof to such user by or on behalf of the city, and such payment
thereof shall be deemed to be delinquent if not so paid to the billing entity
before such date. Furthermore, it is hereby established, approved and adopted
that if such payment is not paid before such date, an industrial user shall pay
interest compounded monthly at the rate of one percent (1%) per month on the
unpaid balance due. (1981 Code 808 § 4)
      5.   Charge A Lien: As provided by Minnesota statutes section 444.075,
subdivision 3, it is hereby approved, adopted and established that if payment
of the strength charge established by subsection C2 of this section is not paid
before the sixtieth day next succeeding the date of billing thereof to the
industrial user by or on behalf of the city, said delinquent sewer strength
charge, plus accrued interest established pursuant to subsection C4 of this
section, shall be deemed to be a charge against the owner, lessee and occupant
of the property served. The city clerk shall thereupon certify the total amount
of such charge (including accrued interest) plus an additional certification
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the county auditor, and the same shall be
collected and the collection thereof enforced in the same manner, in all
respects, as county and state real estate taxes, subject to like penalty, costs
and interest charges. Provided, however, that such certification shall not
preclude the city or its agent from recovery of such delinquent sewer strength
charge and interest thereon under any other available remedy. (1981 Code 808 §
5; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Surcharges; Sump Pumps:
      1.   A quarterly surcharge in an amount duly adopted by the city council
and set forth in the city's fee schedule shall be assessed against the property
on which clear water is discharged in violation of this chapter.
      2.   The quarterly surcharge will be charged on the property's municipal
utility billing statement and will be assessed and charged as follows:
         a.   An inspection, as required herein, has not been allowed by the
property owner or occupant or a certificate of compliance has not been filed
with the city within thirty (30) days after the city's notice of inspection;
         b.   The property owner or occupant fails to make the sewer line
cleanout readily available for the inspection;
         c.   The necessary corrections have not been made within the time
specified; and
         d.   The property owner or occupant reconnects a clear water discharge
line to the city's sanitary sewer system after it has been previously
disconnected at the city's or a court's direction.
      3.   A surcharge will be assessed for every quarter during which the
property is not in compliance, the property owner has not allowed an inspection
of the sump pump system, or the property owner has not made the sewer line
cleanout readily available for the inspection. The surcharge will be assessed
whether the noncompliance has existed for the entire quarter or a portion
thereof.
      4.   The quarterly surcharge for a reconnection will be charged for each
quarter beginning with the quarter in which the inspection was completed or a
certificate of compliance was filed confirming the previous disconnection
through the end of the quarter in which the reconnection is subsequently
disconnected.
      5.   The property owner will be billed for subsequent inspections
necessary beyond the initial inspection and one follow up inspection. (Ord.
496, 6-7-2016)
10-3-8: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the municipal sewer system. (1981 Code 803 § 5)
10-3-9: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
The city engineer and other duly authorized employees of the city shall, at all
reasonable times, be permitted to enter upon all properties within the city for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
connection with the operation of the municipal sanitary sewer system. (1981
Code 803 § 7)
10-3-10: CLEAR WATER DISCHARGE PREVENTION AND PROHIBITION:
   A.   Discharge Requirements:
      1.   No "clear water", as defined in section
10-1-1 of this title, shall be discharged, directly or indirectly, into the
city's sewer system.
      2.   All sump pump systems within the city shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   No sump pump system shall discharge clear water into the city's
sanitary sewer system;
         b.   The sump pump system design shall provide year round discharge of
clear water through a permanently installed discharge line from the interior of
the structure to an appropriate drainage area on the outside of the structure,
connection to the city storm sewer, or discharge through the curb and gutter to
the street. In no event shall a drainage area include property owned by others
or any public right of way unless said right of way is adjacent to a developed
city street with an installed drainage system. Approval to discharge to storm
sewer or streets must be obtained from the city;
         c.   The sump pump system's permanent discharge line shall be made of
solid, nonflexible material and shall not have any connection fittings as to
permit alternative flow path subsequent to installation; and
         d.   If the sump pump system discharge line is connected directly to
the city's storm sewer system, then the discharge line shall have a check valve
which shall be located within the property's boundaries and not within the
public right of way.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspections Required: Any property within the city that is connected
to the city's sewer system shall be subject to one, no cost compliance
inspection, and a subsequent follow up inspection, to determine whether the
property's discharge of its clear water is in compliance with this section and
is not discharged into the city's sanitary sewer system.
         a.   Property owner or occupant shall permit the city's designated
inspector on the property and within any structure thereon to complete the
inspection.
         b.   The compliance inspection shall occur within thirty (30) days of
written notice from the city that a compliance inspection is required on the
property.
         c.   The compliance inspection shall occur at a time and in the manner
as reasonably determined by the city's designated inspector.
         d.   In lieu of a compliance inspection by the city inspector,
property owner may have the property inspected, at the sole expense of the
owner, by a private licensed plumber who shall inspect the property and file a
certificate of compliance on a form provided by the city, within thirty (30)
days of the city's notice of the required inspection.
         e.   The private licensed plumber who conducts the compliance
inspection shall certify on the certificate of compliance that the property's
discharge of clear water is in compliance or noncompliance with the provisions
of this section.
         f.   In the event that the inspector cannot complete the compliance
inspection because the property's sump pump and/or sewer "cleanout" is not
readily accessible as required by the state building code, the property owner
or occupant shall take all necessary steps to make the sewer cleanout readily
accessible for the reinspection to be completed within thirty (30) days of the
date the inspector was at the property to conduct the initial inspection.
         g.   If the property owner or occupant fails to make the sewer line
cleanout accessible for inspection, such failure shall constitute a failure to
comply with inspection requirements and subject to the quarterly surcharge as
defined in subsection 10-3-7C6 of this chapter.
      2.   Failure To Comply With Inspection Requirements:
         a.   Property owners or occupants are required to permit authorized
city employees and/or agents to enter upon properties and inside structures for
purposes of inspection under section
10-3-9 of this chapter.
         b.   If the property owner or occupant fails to permit or have
completed a compliance inspection, the city may apply to the district court for
an appropriate administrative search warrant authorizing the city to enter the
property to conduct the inspection.
      3.   Reinspections:
         a.   In the event that the discharge of clear water on the property is
not in compliance with this section, a second compliance inspection shall be
completed within sixty (60) days of the notice of noncompliance to determine if
the necessary corrections have been made and compliance with this section has
been met.
         b.   The second compliance inspection shall be subject to the
requirements set forth above. Thereafter, the property shall be subject to
reinspections on an annual basis to confirm continued compliance.
         c.   Properties that are in compliance shall also be subject to
reinspections to confirm continued compliance.
   C.   Corrections:
      1.   Upon notice that the discharge of clear water on the property is not
in compliance with this section, the owner or occupant of the property shall
immediately cease from discharging clear water in violation of this section and
shall make the necessary repairs and corrections to discharge the clear water
in accordance with this section. These repairs and corrections shall be
completed within sixty (60) days of the date of notice of noncompliance.
      2.   If necessary repairs and corrections are not completed within the
sixty (60) days, it shall constitute a failure to comply with the requirements
of this section and the owner of the property shall be subject to the quarterly
surcharge as defined in subsection 10-3-7D of this chapter.
   D.   Inspections With Building Permits: If a city inspector is on a property
for the purpose of a building permit inspection, the city inspector has the
authority to inspect the property for compliance with this section without
further notice to the property owner or occupant.
   E.   Temporary Waiver:
      1.   The city may grant a temporary waiver from the provisions of this
section where strict enforcement would cause a threat of damage or harm to
other property, the environment, or public safety because of circumstances
unique to the individual property or due to weather conditions.
      2.   A written request for a temporary waiver must be first submitted to
the public works director specifying the reasons for the temporary waiver.
         a.   If a temporary waiver is granted, the property owner shall pay an
additional fee for sewerage service charges based on the number of gallons
discharged into the city's (sanitary) sewer system as estimated by the public
works director.
         b.   The additional sewerage service charge fee shall be established
in the city's fee schedule and shall consist of a minimum base charge plus a
charge based on the number of estimated gallons of clear water discharge.
      3.   The public works director may set conditions to the temporary
waiver.
      4.   The public works director may terminate the temporary waiver upon a
failure to comply with any conditions imposed on the temporary waiver.
      5.   The public works director must give a five (5) day written notice of
the termination to the property owner and occupant setting forth the reasons
for the termination.
      6.   After expiration or termination of a temporary waiver, the property
owner shall comply with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 496, 6-7-2016)
CHAPTER 4
STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
SECTION:
10-4-1: Utility Established
10-4-2: Purpose Of Funds; Allocation Of Revenues
10-4-3: Storm Sewer Utility Fee
10-4-1: UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
A storm water drainage utility for the city is hereby established. The
municipal storm sewer system shall be operated as a public utility pursuant to
Minnesota statutes section 444.075, from which revenue will be derived subject
to the provisions of this chapter and to Minnesota statutes. The storm water
drainage utility will be a part of the city public works department and under
the administration of the public works director. (Ord. 288, 12-15-1992)
10-4-2: PURPOSE OF FUNDS; ALLOCATION OF REVENUES:
The purpose of all funds derived is to pay for all or part of the construction,
reconstruction, repair, enlargement, improvement or other obtainment and the
maintenance, operation and use of the storm sewer utility as established by the
city. All revenues derived from the fee shall be credited to the appropriate
storm sewer fund. (Ord. 288, 12-15-1992)
10-4-3: STORM SEWER UTILITY FEE:
   A.   Determination Of Fee: A storm sewer utility fee for the use of the
storm sewer facilities shall be determined by resolution of the city council
and shall be just and equitable. Charges made for the use of the facilities may
be fixed by reference to a reasonable classification of the types of premises
to which the service is furnished, or by reference to the quantity, pollution
qualities and difficulty of disposal of the water, or in any other equitable
basis including, but without limitation, any combination of these referred to
above.
   B.   Credits: The council may adopt polices recommended by the public works
director, by resolution, for adjustment of the storm water drainage fee for
parcels based upon hydrologic data to be supplied by property owners, which
data demonstrates a hydrologic response substantially different from the
standards. Such adjustments of storm water drainage fees shall not be made
retroactively.
   C.   Exemptions From Fee: The following land uses are exempt from storm
water drainage fees:
      1.   Public rights of way, public park land, and other lands owned by the
city.
      2.   Vacant, unimproved land with ground cover.
   D.   Bills For Service: Bills for charges for the use and service of the
storm drainage system shall be made out by the finance department in accordance
with the usual and customary practice. All bills shall be payable at city hall.
Bills shall be rendered quarterly.
   E.   Recalculation Of Fee: If a property owner or person responsible for
paying the storm water drainage fee questions the correctness of an invoice for
such charge, such person may have the determination of the charge recomputed by
written request to the public works director made within six (6) months of
mailing of the invoice in question by the city. (Ord. 288, 12-15-1992)
   F.   Payment Of Fee; Delinquencies: All charges of the storm water drainage
utility are due on the quarterly due date specified by the city for the
respective account and shall be delinquent twenty one (21) days thereafter. If
such a payment is not made when due, an additional late charge of two dollars
($2.00) or five percent (5%), whichever is greater, shall be added to the
quarterly payment then due. In the event that such quarterly sewer rental
charges are not paid prior to December 1, the city clerk shall certify the same
together with the late charge set forth above plus an additional certification
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the county auditor, and the same shall be
collected and the collection thereof enforced in the same manner, in all
respects, as county and state real estate taxes, subject to like penalty, costs
and interest charges. (Ord. 288, 12-15-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-5-1: City Of Saint Paul Code Adopted
10-5-2: Service Connections
10-5-3: Reserved
10-5-4: Water Rates
10-5-5: Certification Of Past Due Charges
10-5-6: Water Surcharge
10-5-1: CITY OF SAINT PAUL CODE ADOPTED:
The City hereby adopts title XI of the Legislative Code of the City of Saint
Paul, and all modifications thereof hereafter duly adopted, and by this
reference incorporates said title XI into this chapter as though fully set
forth herein. (Ord. 495, 4-19-2016)
10-5-2: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   All service connections shall be installed from the water main to the
property line by the Board of Water Commissioners of the City of Saint Paul, in
accordance with rules and regulations in effect in the City of Saint Paul.
   B.   No connection shall be made to the water system unless it is made in
accordance with said rules and regulations.
   C.   Every person applying for water service from the public system, and
every owner of property served by the same, shall be deemed to consent to all
rules, regulations and rates contained in title XI of the Legislative Code of
the City of Saint Paul, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 495, 4-19-
2016)
10-5-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 520, 3-20-2018)
10-5-4: WATER RATES:
Water rates for water service provided within the City shall be as established
by the City of Saint Paul based upon recommendation by the Board of Water
Commissioners of the City of Saint Paul. The City may have representation on
said Board as a municipal partner as authorized by the Saint Paul home rule
charter. (Ord. 495, 4-19-2016)
10-5-5: CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE CHARGES:
The City hereby authorizes the Board of Water Commissioners of the City of
Saint Paul to certify past due billed charges within the City to Dakota County
for collection through Property Taxes. (Ord. 495, 4-19-2016)
10-5-6: WATER SURCHARGE:
   A.   Definitions:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: Means and includes all sums received by a water company
from the sale of water to customers within the City limits of the City of
Mendota Heights and the sale of water to customers outside of the City limits
who are served by the Mendota Heights system; except, that there shall be
expressly excluded from said "gross receipts" all sums received by a water
company for water supplied to the City of Mendota Heights for Municipal
services.
   WATER COMPANY: Every person, firm, company, joint stock association or
corporation engaged in the business of selling water for public or private use
in the City of Mendota Heights.
   B.   Purpose; Surcharge Imposed: For the purpose of, in part, assisting the
City in paying for the construction, reconstruction, repair, enlargement,
improvement or other obtainment, and the maintenance, operation and use of the
City's Municipal water system, there is hereby imposed a surcharge equal to
five percent (5%) of the charge imposed for water supplied to properties
located within or without the City. The surcharge may be collected under
agreement with water companies, or in such other manner as may be determined by
the City Council. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case where properties
within the City are billed for water on a fixed monthly charge rather than on
the basis of water actually used, the City Council, by resolution, may
determine the surcharge hereunder for such properties on the basis of what the
surcharge hereunder would have been had said properties been charged on the
basis of water actually used. (Ord. 506, 12-6-2016)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Intent And Purpose
11-1-3: Scope
11-1-4: Rules And Definitions
11-1-5: Compliance With Provisions; Exceptions
11-1-6: Approvals Necessary For Acceptance Of Plats
11-1-7: Land Surveys And Conveyances
11-1-8: Transfer Of Development Rights
11-1-9: Variances
11-1-10: Fees
11-1-11: Violations; Penalty
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MENDOTA
HEIGHTS and will be referred to herein as "this title". (1981 Code 301 § 1)
11-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his interests with those of the city at large, this
title is adopted in order that adherence to same will bring results beneficial
to both parties. It is the purpose of this title to make certain regulations
and requirements for the platting of land within the city pursuant to the
authority contained in Minnesota statutes, which regulations the city council
deems necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of this community.
(1981 Code 301 § 1)
11-1-3: SCOPE:
The provisions of this title relate to any division of a tract of land into two
(2) or more parcels by platting, replatting, conveyance, registered land
survey, or other means. (1981 Code 301 § 1)
11-1-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, words used in the present tense shall include
the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. For the
purpose of this title, certain words and terms are hereby defined as follows:
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Mendota Heights.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Refers to the group of maps, charts and text that make up
the comprehensive long range plan of the city.
DESIGN STANDARDS: The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating, among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as rights of
way, blocks, easements and lots.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining drives and utilities, including, but
not limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewer or storm drainageways and gas lines.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements
of the city, and in such form as required by Dakota County for the purposes of
recording.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for building
development or for transfer of ownership.
OWNER: Includes the plural as well as the singular and, where appropriate,
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, public or
quasi-public corporation, private corporation, or a combination of any of them.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Public land and open spaces in the city of Mendota
Heights dedicated or reserved for recreation purposes.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private right of way across a block or within a
block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
PERCENTAGE OF GRADE: On street centerline, means the distance vertically (up or
down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each one hundred
feet (100') of horizontal distance.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Mendota Heights.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting
requirements herein enumerated.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner
in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving the
physical and economic integrity of any given area.
STREET: A public right of way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, or boulevard, in accordance with the
metropolitan council functional classification of transportation facilities.
Collector Streets: Those that carry traffic from minor streets to the major
system of thoroughfares and highways, including the principal entrance streets
of residential districts, as shown on the comprehensive plan.
Cul-De-Sac: A minor street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
Marginal Access Streets: Minor streets which are parallel and adjacent to
thoroughfares and highways and which provide access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
Minor Streets: Those which are used primarily for access to abutting
properties.
Thoroughfares; Arterial Streets: Those used primarily for heavy traffic, and
serving as arterial trafficways between the various districts of the community,
as shown on the comprehensive plan.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street's right of way.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide the same under this title.
SUBDIVISION: A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
two (2) or more lots or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or
building development or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the
context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided.
TANGENT: A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve where a
tangent meets a curve.
VERTICAL CURVE: The surface curvature on a street centerline located between
lines of different percentage of grade. (1981 Code 301 § 2)
11-1-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Conditions For Recording Plat: No plat of any subdivision shall be
entitled to record in the Dakota County register of deeds office or have any
validity until the plat thereof has been prepared, approved, and acknowledged
in the manner prescribed by this title.
   B.   Building Permit Issuance: No building permits will be considered for
issuance by the city for the construction of any building, structure or
improvement to the land or to any lot in a "subdivision", as defined herein,
until all requirements of this title have been fully complied with. (1981 Code
301 § 11)
   C.   Exceptions: When requesting a subdivision, if either of the following
conditions exist, the planning commission and city council shall review said
request in same manner prescribed in section
11-2-1 of this title.
      1.   Lot line adjustment request to divide a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to
an abutting lot and the newly created property line will not cause the other
remaining portion of the lot to be in violation with this title or the zoning
ordinance. The owner(s) or subdivider(s) shall prepare and submit a certified
survey map containing the following information:
         a.   Location, setbacks, and building height contiguous to the side
yard measured based on applicable definition for existing structures on both
parcels.
         b.   Proposed property boundary lines, including dimensions.
         c.   Lot size (acres and square feet).
         d.   Lot width, measured as the maximum horizontal distance between
the side lot lines within the first thirty feet (30') of the lot depth.
         e.   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks, including a description of
the applicable zoning district standards.
         f.   Existing and proposed legal descriptions.
         g.   Date, scale, legend, and north point.
         h.   Certification statement and signature of a licensed surveyor in
the state of Minnesota, including license number and contact information.
         i.   Such other information as may be requested by the engineer,
surveyor, or planning commission.
      2.   Lot split request to divide a lot which is a part of a recorded plat
where the division is to create two (2) lots and the newly created property
line will not cause the other remaining portion of the lot to be in violation
with this title or the zoning ordinance. The owner or subdivider shall prepare
and submit a certified survey map containing the following information:
         a.   Existing first floor elevations for principal structure and
garage.
         b.   If existing principal structure is to remain, building height
contiguous to the side yard, measured based on the applicable definition.
         c.   Location and setbacks for existing structures on the subject
parcel and immediately adjacent parcels.
         d.   Proposed property boundary lines, including dimensions.
         e.   Lot size (acres and square feet).
         f.   Lot width, measured as the maximum horizontal distance between
the side lot lines within the first thirty feet (30') of the lot depth.
         g.   Front, rear, and side yard setbacks, including a description of
the applicable zoning district standards.
         h.   Size (square feet) of proposed building pad(s).
         i.   Existing and proposed legal descriptions.
         j.   Quantity, type, and size of existing trees/significant vegetation
to be removed.
         k.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2'), including existing slopes over thirty three percent
(33%) in grade.
         l.   Wetlands and water resource related areas, including one hundred
foot (100') and twenty five foot (25') buffers.
         m.   Required drainage and utility easements, as in section
11-3-4 of this title.
         n.   Date, scale, legend, and north point.
         o.   Certification statement and signature of a licensed surveyor in
the state of Minnesota, including license number and contact information.
         p.   Such other information as may be requested by the engineer,
surveyor, or planning commission. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
11-1-6: APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF PLATS:
Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be referred
to the city planning commission and approved by the city council as having
fulfilled the requirements of this title. (1981 Code 301 § 1)
11-1-7: LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCES:
   A.   Registered Land Surveys: It is the intention of this title that all
registered land surveys in the city should be presented to the planning
commission in the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards
set forth in this title for preliminary plats and that the planning commission
shall first approve the arrangement, sizes, and relationship of proposed tracts
in such registered land surveys, and that tracts to be used as easements or
roads should be so dedicated. Unless a recommendation and approval have been
obtained from the planning commission and city council respectively, in
accordance with the standards set forth in this title, building permits will be
withheld for buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered
land surveys, and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads
or to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
   B.   Conveyance By Metes And Bounds: No conveyance of a parcel in which the
land conveyed, as described by metes and bounds, shall be made or recorded if
the parcel described in the conveyance consists of five (5) acres or less in
area and three hundred feet (300') in width unless such parcel was a separate
parcel of record at the effective date of this title. Building permits will be
withheld for buildings or tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by
this method, and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or
to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts. (1981 Code 301 § 10)
11-1-8: TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS:
As dedication of steep slopes, drainageways, and wetlands may substantially
reduce the total number of lots platted within a development, the city council
may consider the transfer of development rights from that area which is to be
dedicated, to an abutting developable area within the same plat. The city
council may consider the transfer of development rights when the following
conditions exist:
   A.   The need for dedication of said environmentally significant physical
features is greater than can be accommodated through the public (park and open
space) dedication requirements of this title.
   B.   The area from which the development rights have been transferred is
permanently deed restricted to allow no development of commercial, industrial
or residential structures, where the deed is held by an officially recognized
homeowners' association.
   C.   The proposed development must conform to the appropriate parking
restrictions as outlined in the Mendota Heights zoning ordinance 1 .
   D.   The proposed development must conform to the established permitted or
conditional uses of the appropriate zoning district for which the property is
so designated. (1981 Code 301 § 7)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 12, chapter 1 of this code.
11-1-9: VARIANCES:
Variances from the strict application of the provisions of this title can be
requested under the requirements of section
12-1L-5 of this code. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
11-1-10: FEES:
Fees and deposits for processing subdivision applications will be collected in
accordance with the requirements of section
12-1L-10 of this code. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
11-1-11: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   Sale Of Lots From Unrecorded Plats: It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade, or otherwise convey or offer to sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot
or parcel of land as a part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat
of any subdivision or area located within the jurisdiction of this title unless
said plan, plat or replat shall have first been recorded in the office of the
register of deeds of Dakota County.
      2.   Receiving Or Recording Unapproved Plats: It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land laid
out in building lots and streets, alleys, or other portions of the same
intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of purchasers
or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located within the
jurisdiction of this title, unless the same shall bear thereon, by endorsement
or otherwise, the approval of the city council.
      3.   Misrepresentation As To Construction, Supervision, Or Inspection Of
Improvements: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning
an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys or avenues of said addition or
subdivision or any sewer in said addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the city council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised or inspected. (1981 Code 301 § 13)
   B.   Penalty: Anyone violating any of the provisions of this title shall be
guilty of an offense punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each month during which compliance is delayed shall
constitute a separate offense. (1981 Code 301 § 13; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preliminary Plat
11-2-2: Final Plat
11-2-3: Data Required For Preliminary And Final Plats
11-2-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Filing Of Plat; Fee: The required application(s) and supporting
information shall be submitted in accordance with the current application
submittal schedule. The required filing fee as established in section
11-1-10 of this title shall be paid before the proposed plat shall be
considered officially filed.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Upon receipt of said application, the city clerk shall establish the
date for a public hearing by the planning commission and shall be responsible
for the publication of hearing notices and mailing to the owners of the
property in question and the owners of all properties situated within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the boundary of the property in question. (Ord.
490, 2-16-2016)
      2.   The planning commission shall conduct the hearing and report upon
findings and make recommendations to the city council.
      3.   Notice of said hearing shall be published in the official newspaper
at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, and written notification of said
hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all
owners of land identified on the above named abstractor's certificate.
   C.   Technical Assistance Reports: After the public hearing has been set,
the city administrator shall instruct the staff to prepare technical reports
(where appropriate) and provide general assistance in preparing a
recommendation on the action to the city council. (1981 Code 301 § 3)
   D.   Review By Other Commissions Or Jurisdictions: The preliminary plat
shall be distributed to the parks and recreation commission, Dakota County, or
the state of Minnesota for their review and comment when appropriate, as
determined by the city administrator and, including, but not limited to, the
following circumstances:
      1.   The proposed plat includes dedication of lands for public use, as in
section
11-5-1 of this title.
      2.   The proposed plat is adjacent to county or state right of way or
proposes to access a county or state road.
      3.   The proposed plat is within the critical area overlay district, as
regulated by title 12, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
   E.   Recommendation To Council: The planning commission shall make a
recommendation to the city council within sixty (60) days following the public
hearing.
   F.   Action By City Council:
      1.   Time Limit For Action: The council shall act upon the preliminary
plat within one hundred twenty (120) days of the date on which it was
officially filed. If the recommendation of the planning commission has not been
received in time to meet this requirement, the council may act on the
preliminary plat without such recommendation.
      2.   Denial Of Plat: If the preliminary plat is not approved by the city
council, the reasons for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of
the council and transmitted to the applicant.
      3.   Approval Of Plat: If the preliminary plat is approved, such approval
shall not constitute final acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will
be required of the engineering proposals and other features and requirements as
specified by this title to be indicated on the final plat. The city council may
require such revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems
necessary for the health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the city
and its residents. (1981 Code 301 § 3)
      4.   Effective Period Of Approval: The approval of a preliminary plat
shall be effective for a period of one year or longer, as specified by the city
council. At the end of this time, final plat approval on the subdivision shall
have been obtained from the city council. Any preliminary plat not receiving
final approval within the time period set forth herein shall be null and void,
except as provided by Minnesota statutes section 462.358, subdivision 3c or if
an extension is granted by the city council, and the subdivider shall be
required to submit a new application for preliminary plat approval subject to
all new zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations of the city existing at
the time of submission of the new application. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
11-2-2: FINAL PLAT:
After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat may be submitted
for approval as follows: (1981 Code 301 § 3)
   A.   Approval Or Denial By City Council: Except as provided in subsection B
of this section, the final plat shall be submitted to the city council for
approval. If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by resolution, which
resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all agreements for basic
improvements, public dedication and other requirements as indicated by the city
council. If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to approve a plat shall be
set forth in the proceedings of the council and reported to the person or
persons applying for such approval.
   B.   Approval Or Denial By Planning Commission: Upon the request of the
property owner, or where the city zoning administrator has determined that
material changes have been made in the final plat subsequent to preliminary
plat approval, the planning commission shall review the final plat. The final
plat shall be filed with the city clerk and submitted to the planning
commission at least twenty (20) days prior to a commission meeting at which
consideration is requested. During the said twenty (20) days, the city staff
shall examine the final plat and prepare a recommendation to the planning
commission. Approval, disapproval, or any delay in decision of the final plat
will be conveyed to the subdivider within ten (10) days after the meeting of
the city planning commission at which such plat was considered. In case the
plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified in writing of the reason
for such action and what requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval
of the commission. After review by the planning commission, such final plat,
together with the recommendations of the planning commission, shall be
submitted to the city council for approval. (Ord. 282, 1-21-1991)
11-2-3: DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Preliminary Plat: The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat, together with any necessary supplementary information setting
forth:
      1.   Contents: The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions.
         b.   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section,
quarter section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description
of the property.
         c.   Names and addresses of the developer and the designer making the
plat.
         d.   Scale of plat, not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1"=
100').
         e.   Date and north point.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated and to a
close degree of accuracy.
         b.   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision.
         c.   A general statement on the approximate acreage and dimensions of
the lots.
         d.   Location, right of way width, and names of existing or platted
streets, or other public ways, parks, and other public lands, permanent
buildings and structures, easements and section and corporate lines within the
plan and to a distance one hundred fifty feet (150') beyond.
         e.   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land,
within one hundred fifty feet (150'), identified by name and ownership,
including all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider. (1981 Code
301 § 4)
         f.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2'), including existing slopes over thirty three percent
(33%) in grade; watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, power transmission poles
and lines, and other significant features. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
         g.   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision prepared by a
qualified person. (1981 Code 301 § 4)
         h.   A survey prepared by a qualified person identifying tree coverage
in the proposed subdivision in terms of type and size. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
      3.   Proposed Design Features:
         a.   Layout of proposed streets showing the right of way widths,
centerline gradients, typical cross sections, and proposed names of streets.
The name of any street heretofore used in the county or its environs shall not
be used unless the proposed street is a logical extension of an already named
street, in which event, the same name shall be used. Street names shall conform
to the master street name and numbering system as adopted.
         b.   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrianways.
         c.   Layout, numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks.
         d.   Minimum front and side street building setback lines.
         e.   When lots are located on a curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line.
         f.   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrianways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such area or areas in acres.
         g.   Size of individual lot areas noted in square footage.
      4.   Other Information:
         a.   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units and type of business or
industry, so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire
hazards, and congestion of population.
         b.   Provision for surface water disposal, drainage, and flood
control.
         c.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas.
         d.   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, the planning commission shall require that
the subdivider submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions shall be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions.
         e.   Where structures are to be placed on large lots (over 30,000
square feet), the preliminary plat shall indicate placement of structures so
that lots may be further subdivided.
         f.   Potential resubdivision and use of excessively deep (over 200
feet) lots and indication of placement of structures so that lots may be
further subdivided.
         g.   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan shall include
gradients of waterways, design of velocity and erosion control measures, and
landscaping of the erosion and sediment control system.
         h.   A vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of trees
and other vegetation that are to be planted.
         i.   Such other information as may be requested by the engineer,
surveyor or planning commission.
   B.   Final Plat:
      1.   Information Required: The owner or subdivider shall submit a final
plat together with any necessary supplementary information.
      2.   Contents: The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota statutes and Dakota County
regulations, and such final plat shall contain the following information:
         a.   Name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision. (1981 Code 301 § 4)
         b.   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The mathematical closure tolerance of the plat boundary, blocks, lots, and
outlots shall not exceed two-hundredths (2/100) of a foot.
         c.   The location of monuments and a description thereof. Locations of
such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing official monuments on
the nearest established street lines, including true angles and distances to
such reference points or monuments. Permanent markers shall be placed at each
corner of every block or portion of a block, points of curvature and points of
tangency on street lines, and at each angle point on the boundary of the
subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe, one-
half inch (1/2") or larger in diameter. The license number of the land surveyor
that certifies the plat shall be affixed to all set plat monuments. In
situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the locations
prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted. The exact location of all
markers shall be shown on the final plat, together with accurate interior
angles, bearings and distances. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
         d.   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points of curve to lot lines.
         e.   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
         f.   The exact locations, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
         g.   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated. (1981 Code
301 § 4)
         h.   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch) and north point.
         i.   Drainage and utility easements.
         j.   Streets, alleys and other public areas not previously dedicated.
         k.   Include a map showing the location of the property being platted
with sufficient information to locate the property within a section. Orient the
vicinity map to match the north orientation of the plat. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
      3.   Additional Plats: All subdividers shall submit two (2) reproducible
copies of the final plat showing clearly lot configuration, actual dimensions
and exact lot size in square footage, as certified by a registered land
surveyor.
      4.   Certificates: The following shall be required: (1981 Code 301 § 4)
         a.   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of drainage and utility
easements, streets and other public areas for public use.
         b.   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
         c.   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due
on the property have been paid in full. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
         d.   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by
the signatures of the mayor and city clerk. The form of approval of the city
council is as follows:
Approved by the City of Mendota Heights, Minnesota
this                 day of                 , 20        
Signed:       
Mayor
Attest:       
City Clerk
(Ord. 282, 1-21-1991)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Blocks
11-3-2: Lots
11-3-3: Streets And Alleys
11-3-4: Easements
11-3-5: Erosion And Sediment Control
11-3-6: Surface Water Drainage
11-3-7: Wet Soils
11-3-8: Steep Slopes
11-3-1: BLOCKS:
   A.   Block Length: In general, intersecting streets determining block
lengths shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') in length, except where topography or other
conditions justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks longer than eight
hundred feet (800'), pedestrianways and/or easements through the block may be
required near the center of the block. Blocks for business or industrial use
should normally not exceed one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') in
length.
   B.   Block Width: The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business
or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off street parking and
deliveries. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-2: LOTS:
   A.   Lot Area, Width And Depth: The minimum lot area, width and depth shall
not be less than that established by the zoning ordinance in effect at the time
of adoption of the final plat.
   B.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as required in
the zoning ordinance.
   C.   Side Lot Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   D.   Lot Frontage: Every lot must have the minimum frontage as required in
the zoning ordinance on a city approved street other than an alley.
   E.   Building Setback: Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the Mendota Heights zoning ordinance. On those lots which are intended for
business use, the setback shall be at least that required by the Mendota
Heights zoning ordinance. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Except for cul-de-sacs, streets normally shall connect with streets
already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their relation to
the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of
storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate
relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      2.   Where the plat to be submitted includes only part of the tract owned
or intended for development by the subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed
future street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and
submitted by the subdivider.
      3.   When a tract is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or
parcels, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical
location and openings of future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with
provision for adequate utility connections for such resubdivision.
   B.   Street Specifications:
      1.   Angle Of Intersections: Under normal conditions, streets shall be
laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where
topography or other conditions justify variations. Under normal conditions, the
minimum angle of intersection of streets shall be eighty degrees (80°). Street
intersection jogs with an offset of less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125') shall be avoided.
      2.   Right Of Way Width:
         a.   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and/or accepted, the
minimum right of way width for streets, thoroughfares, alleys, or
pedestrianways included in any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum
dimensions for each classification as follows:
Arterial street                               80 - 100 feet
Collector street                              60 feet
Minor street                                  60 feet
Cul-de-sac or marginal access service streets 60 feet
Alley                                         30 feet
Pedestrianway                                 10 feet
*Private common access                        30 feet
*The city council may choose to approve private common access for PUD,
townhouse development, etc., where appropriate. Standards for said access,
however, shall comply with minimums as outlined for minor streets (except
right of way) and all other provisions as required by the city council.
 
         b.   Where the existing or anticipated traffic on primary and
secondary thoroughfares warrants greater widths of rights of way, the above
listed widths shall be required.
      3.   Street Grades:
         a.   Except upon the recommendation of the city engineer that the
topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades in all streets,
thoroughfares, collector streets, minor streets, and alleys in any subdivision
shall not be greater than the maximum grades for each classification as
follows:
 
Arterial street  6 percent
Collector street 6 percent
Minor street     6 percent
Alley            6 percent
 
         b.   In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on all streets and
thoroughfares of not less than twenty-hundredths percent (0.20%).
      4.   Street Alignment: The horizontal and vertical alignment standards on
all streets shall be as follows:
   Horizontal - Radii Of Centerline
 
Arterial street                  150 feet minimum
Collector street or minor street 50 feet minimum
 
   C.   Minor Streets: Minor streets should be so planned as to discourage
their use by nonlocal traffic.
   D.   Dead End And Cul-De-Sac Streets: Dead end streets are prohibited, but
cul-de-sacs will be permitted only where topography or other conditions justify
their use. Cul-de-sacs shall normally not be longer than five hundred feet
(500'), including a terminal turnaround which shall be provided at the closed
end, with an outside curb radius of at least forty nine feet (49') and a right
of way radius of not less than sixty feet (60').
   E.   Marginal Access Streets: Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or
is adjacent to the right of way of a U.S. or state highway or thoroughfare,
provision may be made for a marginal access street approximately parallel and
adjacent to the boundary of such right of way, or for a street at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of land between such street and right of way.
Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum
distance required for approach connections to future grade separations, or for
lot depths.
   F.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts; except, that this requirement may be waived where other definite and
assured provision is made for service access, such as off street loading,
unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed.
Except where justified by special conditions, such as the continuation of an
existing alley in the same block, alleys will not be approved in residential
districts. Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than thirty feet (30')
wide. Dead end alleys shall be avoided wherever possible, but if unavoidable,
such dead end alleys may be approved if adequate turnaround facilities are
provided at the closed end.
   G.   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets will not be approved, except
where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and in
conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, where it is found
that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided, or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so that it may be improved in the public
interest. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   An easement for utilities at least five feet (5') wide shall be
provided along the side line of lots. A similar easement of at least ten feet
(10') in width shall be provided along the front and rear of each line of lots.
If necessary for the extension of water main, sewer lines, similar utilities,
or access to adjoining property, easements of greater width may be required
along lot lines or across lots. Additional easements may be required, as
determined appropriate by the city engineer. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
   B.   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in adjoining
properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be changed
without the approval of the city council, after a recommendation from the
planning commission.
   C.   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the outside of
turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the exterior angle
so that pole guys will fall alongside lot lines.
   D.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel, or stream, a storm sewer easement, drainage right of way or park
dedication, whichever the planning commission may deem the most adequate,
conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourses, shall be
provided, together with such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the stormwater drainage of the area. The width of such easements
shall be determined by the city engineer. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-5: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
   A.   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   B.   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
   C.   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
   D.   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible
period of time.
   E.   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set aside
for respreading over the developed area. The soil shall be restored to a depth
of four inches (4") and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-6: SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   Drainage Into Marshlands And Swamps: Where municipal storm sewer
systems do not exist, or the introduction of said system is deemed
inappropriate by the city council, stormwater drainage shall be discharged to
marshlands, swamps, retention basins or other treatment facilities. Diversion
of stormwater to marshlands or swamps shall be considered for existing or
planned surface drainage. Stormwater drainage discharged to marshlands, swamps,
retention basins, or other treatment facilities shall be pretreated wherever
practicable. Marshlands and swamps used for stormwater shall provide for
natural or artificial water level control. (Ord. 431, 2-1-2011)
   B.   Permit To Alter Ditches, Streams, Etc.: No existing ditch, stream,
drain, pond, or drainage canal shall be deepened, widened, filled, rerouted or
filled without written permission from the city council.
   C.   Artificial Channels: Where artificial channels must be constructed to
augment the natural drainage system, such channels as well as the natural
drainageways may be planned as part of a recreation system.
   D.   Drainage System Required During Construction: The drainage system shall
be constructed and operational during the initial phases of construction. (1981
Code 301 § 5)
11-3-7: WET SOILS:
To facilitate stormwater drainage system design, mitigate potential adverse
environmental impact, minimize detrimental and/or costly structural problems,
subdivision design shall be consistent with limitations presented by wet soils.
Approval of subdivision proposal within these delineated areas will require an
engineering analysis and assessment pertaining to soil drainage, permeability
and other engineering characteristics. The engineering analysis shall define
and recommend the extent to which grading, excavating and filling of wet soil
may be permitted without undue adverse impact upon the overall surface water
management of the delineated watershed district within which the development is
proposed. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
11-3-8: STEEP SLOPES:
   A.   Slope Limitations: Subdivision design shall be consistent with
limitations presented by naturally steep slopes. Subdivisions, excluding
previously disturbed areas as part of a lot split request containing an
existing dwelling and associated improvements, shall be designed so that no
construction or grading will be conducted on slopes steeper than thirty three
percent (33%) in grade. (Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
   B.   Deeding Of Slopes: Steep slopes may be deeded to the city or an
officially recognized homeowners' association. Upon city council approval,
deeding of steep slopes may be used to satisfy public land dedication
requirements as established in chapter 5 of this title. (1981 Code 301 § 5)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Requirements
11-4-2: Streets, Sanitary Sewers And Water Distribution
11-4-3: Public Utilities
11-4-4: Storm Water Drainage
11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Agreement To Make Improvements: Before a final plat is approved by the
city council, the owner or subdivider of the land covered by the said plat
shall execute and submit to the council an agreement, which shall be binding on
his or their heirs, personal representatives and assigns, that he will cause no
private construction to be made on said plat or file or cause to be filed any
application for building permits for such construction until all improvements
required under this title have been made or arranged for in the manner
following as respects the streets to which the lots sought to be constructed
have access.
   B.   Deposit: Prior to the making of such required improvements, the council
shall require the owner or subdivider to deposit with the city clerk an amount
equal to the city's estimated cost of such improvements, either in cash or an
indemnity bond, with sureties satisfactory to the city, conditioned upon the
payment of all construction costs incurred in making of such improvements and
all expense incurred by the city for engineering and legal fees and other
expense in connection with the making of such improvements.
   C.   Certification Of Improvements: No final plat shall be approved by the
city council without first receiving a report from the city engineer certifying
that the improvements described herein, together with the agreements and
documents required herein, meet the minimum requirements of all applicable
ordinances.
   D.   Inspection: All of the required improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this title shall be inspected during the course of their
construction by the city engineer. All of the inspection costs pursuant thereto
shall be paid by the owner or subdivider in the manner prescribed in subsection
B of this section.
   E.   Erosion, Sediment Control: All plans for erosion, sediment control and
vegetation preservation, as required in subsections 11-2-3A4g and A4h of this
title, shall be approved in conjunction with an approved time schedule for the
phasing of said protection plans during and after construction. (1981 Code 301
§ 8)
11-4-2: STREETS, SANITARY SEWERS AND WATER DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   The city currently performs all street, sanitary sewer and water
distribution improvements; however, they reserve the right to request that
developers make all necessary improvements at any time.
   B.   Street trees and boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance with
the standards and specifications as required by the city council. (1981 Code
301 § 8)
11-4-3: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Where feasible, in the opinion of the engineer, all utility lines for
telephone and electric service shall be placed in rear line easements when
carried on overhead poles.
   B.   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways, in such a manner so as not to conflict with other
underground services. All drainage and other underground utility installations
which traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements
furnished by the subdivider. (1981 Code 301 § 8)
11-4-4: STORM WATER DRAINAGE:
   A.   No final plat shall be approved by the city council on land subject to
flooding or containing poor drainage facilities or on land which would make
adequate drainage of the streets and lots impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the city
engineer, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate street and lot drainage, and conform to applicable regulations of
other agencies such as the U.S. corps of engineers or the department of natural
resources, the final plat of the subdivision may be approved. In addition, such
plats may not be approved if the cost of providing municipal services to
protect the floodplain area would impose an unreasonable economic burden upon
the city. (1981 Code 301 § 8)
   B.   Storm sewers, culverts, stormwater inlets, and other drainage
facilities will be required where they are necessary to ensure adequate
stormwater drainage for the subdivision. Where required, such drainage
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications for street construction as well as title 14, chapter 1 of this
code as required by the city council. (Ord. 431, 2-1-2011)
CHAPTER 5
DEDICATION OF LANDS FOR PUBLIC USE
SECTION:
11-5-1: Amount Required To Be Dedicated; Cash In Lieu
11-5-2: Disposition Of Revenues
11-5-3: Delayed Cash Payments
11-5-4: Dedication Of Public Sites
11-5-5: Location And Configuration Of Dedicated Land Area
11-5-1: AMOUNT REQUIRED TO BE DEDICATED; CASH IN LIEU:
Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 462.358, subdivision 2b, as amended, the
city council shall require all developers requesting platting or replatting of
land in the city to contribute ten percent (10%) of final plat gross area to be
dedicated to the public for their use as either parks, playgrounds, public open
space, trail systems, or water ponding, or to contribute cash in lieu of land
in an amount established by resolution of the city council, based upon the
conditions outlined below. The form of contribution (cash or land, or any
combination thereof) shall be decided by the city council based upon need and
conformance with approved city plans. Payment of cash in lieu of land will be
collected prior to any subdivision or final plat being recorded by Dakota
County. (Ord. 467, 11-5-2014)
11-5-2: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All monies collected from cash contributions shall be placed in a special fund
from which only those public uses as listed in section
11-5-1 of this chapter may be constructed or improved, or land for those same
uses may be acquired. (1981 Code 301 § 6)
11-5-3: DELAYED CASH PAYMENTS:
Upon petition by the developer, the council may approve a delay in the actual
dedication of the cash required in lieu of land until such time as development
occurs on the property being platted; provided, that a proper legal agreement
is executed guaranteeing such dedication. Delayed dedication payment shall
include annual interest accrued on the unpaid balance at an interest rate to be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (1981 Code 301
§ 6)
11-5-4: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC SITES:
Where a proposed park, playground or other recreational area, proposed school
site or other public ground that has been indicated in the official map and/or
master plan is located in whole or in part within a proposed subdivision, such
proposed public site shall be designated as such and should be dedicated to the
city, school district or other proper governmental unit. If the subdivider
chooses not to dedicate an area in excess of the land required under this
chapter for such proposed public site, the council shall not be required to act
to approve or disapprove the plat of the subdivision for a period of ninety
(90) days after the subdivider meets all the provisions of this title in order
to permit the council, school board or other appropriate governmental unit to
consider the proposed plat and to take the necessary steps to acquire, through
purchase or condemnation, all or part of the public site proposed under the
official map or master plan. (1981 Code 301 § 6)
11-5-5: LOCATION AND CONFIGURATION OF DEDICATED LAND AREA:
In such cases where the developer is required to dedicate land area, the city
council shall have the right to determine the geographic location and
configuration of said dedication. (1981 Code 301 § 6)
TITLE 12
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND CONFORMANCE
ARTICLE A. TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
12-1A-1: Title And Application
12-1A-2: Intent And Purpose
12-1A-3: Application And Interpretation
12-1A-4: Separability
12-1A-5: Authority
12-1A-1: TITLE AND APPLICATION:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the MENDOTA HEIGHTS ZONING
ORDINANCE or except as referred to hereinafter, where it shall be known as
“Zoning Ordinance”. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-1A-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This Zoning Ordinance is adopted for the purposes of:
   A.   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare.
   B.   Dividing the City into zones and districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
structures and land.
   C.   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business, industrial,
recreation and public areas.
   D.   Providing adequate light, air, and convenience of access to property.
   E.   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way.
   F.   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them.
   G.   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City.
   H.   Providing for the administration of this Zoning Ordinance and
amendments thereto.
   I.   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter.
   J.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-1A-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions. Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this Zoning Ordinance are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statue, resolution,
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive, or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
   C.   Compliance with Provisions. No structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or land shall be used for
any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-1A-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention that the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance which are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge any provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance to be invalid, such judgement shall not affect any other
provision of this Zoning Ordinance not specifically included in said judgement.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge invalid the
application of any provision of this Zoning Ordinance to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgement shall not affect other property,
buildings, or structures. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-1A-5: AUTHORITY:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, Minnesota Statutes, and Sections 462.351 to 462.364, and any
other successor chapters and sections. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. CONFORMANCE OF USES, STRUCTURES AND LAND
SECTION:
12-1B-1: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
12-1B-2: Nonconforming Uses, Structures And Land
12-1B-1: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
It is the policy of the City of Mendota Heights that the enforcement,
amendment, and administration of this Zoning Ordinance be accomplished with due
consideration of the recommendations contained in the Comprehensive Plan, as
developed and amended from time to time by the City Council of the City. The
City Council recognizes the Comprehensive Plan as the policy guide for
responsible regulation of land use and development in accordance with the
policies and purpose herein set forth. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-1B-2: NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LAND:
   A.   Continuance of Nonconforming Use, Structure or Land. Any structure or
use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance may be
continued at the size and in a manner of operation existing upon such date
except as hereinafter specified.
   B.   Discontinuance of Use. Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a
structure or land is discontinued for a period of six (6) months, any future
use of said structure or land shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance.
   C.   Change of Use.
      1.   When any lawful nonconforming use of any structure or land in any
Zoning District has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter
be changed to any nonconforming use.
      2.   A lawful nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to a similar nonconforming use or to a more restrictive nonconforming
use. Once a structure or parcel of land has been placed in a more restrictive
nonconforming use, it shall not return to a less restrictive nonconforming use.
   D.   Maintenance and Repairs.
      1.   Nothing in this Zoning Ordinance shall prevent the placing of a
structure in safe condition when said structure is declared unsafe by the code
enforcement officer.
      2.   Whenever a lawful nonconforming structure has been damaged by fire,
flood, explosion, earthquake, war, riot or act of God, it may be remodeled,
reconstructed, improved, or rebuilt, provided that:
         a.   A building permit is applied for within six (6) months of the
date of the damage; and
         b.   The work provided for in the building permit is completed within
12 months of the date of damage; and
         c.   The reconstruction does not expand the physical size or bulk of
the building, nor increase the nonconformity.
   E.   Alterations. Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful
nonconforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof,
provided they will not increase the number of dwelling units.
   F.   Structures Under Construction. Any structure which will, under this
Zoning Ordinance, become nonconforming, but for which a building permit has
been lawfully granted prior to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance or
of amendments hereto, may be completed in accordance with the approved plans,
provided construction is started within six (6) months of the effective date of
this Zoning Ordinance or amendment hereto and continued to completion within
two (2) years. Such structure shall thereafter be a legally existing
nonconforming structure. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS”
SECTION:
12-2A-1: Title And Application
12-2A-2: Intent And Purpose
12-2A-3: Application And Interpretation
12-2A-4: Separability
12-2A-5: Authority
12-2A-1: TITLE AND APPLICATION:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the MENDOTA HEIGHTS ZONING
ORDINANCE or except as referred to hereinafter, where it shall be known as
“Zoning Ordinance”. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2A-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This Zoning Ordinance is adopted for the purposes of:
   A.   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare.
   B.   Dividing the City into zones and districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
structures and land.
   C.   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business, industrial,
recreation and public areas.
   D.   Providing adequate light, air, and convenience of access to property.
   E.   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way.
   F.   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them.
   G.   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the City.
   H.   Providing for the administration of this Zoning Ordinance and
amendments thereto.
   I.   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter.
   J.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Zoning Ordinance or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2A-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience, and general welfare.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions. Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this Zoning Ordinance are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statue, resolution,
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive, or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
   C.   Compliance with Provisions. No structure shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or land shall be used for
any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2A-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention that the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance which are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge any provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance to be invalid, such judgement shall not affect any other
provision of this Zoning Ordinance not specifically included in said judgement.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge invalid the
application of any provision of this Zoning Ordinance to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgement shall not affect other property,
buildings, or structures. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2A-5: AUTHORITY:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, Minnesota Statutes, and Sections 462.351 to 462.364, and any
other successor chapters and sections. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-2B-1: Base Zoning Districts
12-2B-2: Residential Estate (RE)
12-2B-3: Low Density Residential (R-1)
12-2B-4: Medium Density Residential (R-2)
12-2B-5: Multi-Family Residential (R-3)
12-2B-6: Mixed-Use (MU)
12-2B-7: General Business (B-1)
12-2B-8: Neighborhood Business (B-2)
12-2B-9: Industrial (I)
12-2B-10: State Park (SP)
12-2B-1: BASE ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Assigned Base Zoning Districts. All parcels, lots and land within the
City are zoned with a Base Zoning District designation. The Base Zoning
Districts establish and assign dimensional standards for all lots,
improvements, subdivisions and other uses as described and regulated within
this Zoning Ordinance. A parcel of land, development or contiguous area may be
subject to an Overlay District which may assign additional dimensional
standards and rules or provide certain flexibility from the standards as
expressly described in other applicable Chapters or Sections.
   Table 12-2B-1.1 Base Zoning Districts
 
             Residential Districts                                   Business Districts
              Residential Low Density  Medium      Multi-      Mixed- General  Neighborhood
             Estate      Residential1 Density     Family      Use    Business Business     Industrial
                                       Residential Residential
Abbreviations RE          R-1          R-2         R-3         MU     B-1      B-2          I
                                                               15,000
                                                   20,000      square
                                                   square feet feet
Lot Size      30,000      15,000       5,500       total or    total  20,000   15,000
(minimum)     square feet square feet  square      3,500       or     square   square feet  1 acre
                                       feet/unit   square      3,500  feet
                                                   feet/unit   square
                                                               feet/
                                                               unit
Lot Width     125'        100'         35' per     150'        100'   150'     100'         100'
(minimum)                              unit
                                                               60%,   60%, up
Impervious                             35%, up to  50%, up to  up to  to 75%   60%, up to   75%, up to
Surface Area  35%         35%          50% with    65% with    75%    with     75% with     90% with
(maximum )                             BMPs2       BMPs2       with   BMPs2    BMPs2        BMPs2
                                                               BMPs2
Height        35'         25'          25'         60'         60'    35'      30'          45'
(maximum )
 
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-2: RESIDENTIAL ESTATE (RE):
   A.   Purpose of Residential Estate (RE) Zoning District. The RE Zoning
District designates areas in the community where the predominant use of
property is for large lot, single-family detached uses with supporting
accessory uses. Properties zoned RE have a larger lot size and may or may not
be part of a platted neighborhood. Land developed within the RE Zoning District
may be served by private well and septic or connected to municipal utility
services.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. [Table 12-2B-2.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2B-2.1 RE Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                       30,000 square feet
B Lot Width (minimum)                      125 feet
Principal Building Standards
  Front Yard Setback
C    Newly Created Lot (new plat)       40 feet
     Existing Lot of Record (infill)    See Section [
                                           12-4A-3.D.2.]
D Side Yard Setback (minimum)              15 feet interior lot line
                                           30 feet abutting a street
E Rear Yard Setback (minimum)              30 feet  
  Principal Building Height (maximum)      35 feet  
   Accessory Structure Standards
Private Garages
                                           One (1) detached or one (1) attached
  Number (maximum)                         garage per Lot; see Section [
                                           12-4A-8.D.2.] for Exception for Two
                                           Private Garages on a Lot
  Size (maximum)
     If Attached Private Garage         1,200 square feet
                                           1,201 - 1,500 square feet with CUP
     If Detached Private Garage         750 square feet
                                           751 - 1,000 square feet with CUP
     Size for Exception for Two Private Up to 2,400 square feet based on lot
  Garages                                  size, see Section [
                                           12-4A-8.D.2.]
  Front Yard Setback (attached)            Minimum Front Yard Setback of
                                           Principal Building
F Front Yard Setback (detached)            Behind Principal Building front
                                           facade
  Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)    Corner lots must meet principal
                                           building side yard setback
     144 to 2,000 square feet           10 feet
     Over 2,000 square feet             15 feet
  Height (maximum)                         May not exceed height of principal
                                           building
     144 to 2,000 square feet           15 feet, 1.5 stories
     Over 2,000 square feet                18 feet, 1.5 stories
G Setback from Principal Building          5 feet
  (minimum)
 Garage Doors
    Width (maximum measured horizontall36 linear feet as viewed from the
                                           public right-of-way
    Height (maximum)                   9 feet, or up to 12 feet with
                                           Conditional Use Permit
Storage Building
                                           One (1); See Section [
 Number (maximum)                         12-4A-8.E.1.c.] for Exception for
                                           two Storage Buildings if Chicken
                                           Coop/Run
                                           144 square feet for one (1) Storage
 Size                                     Building; maximum of 225 square feet
                                           of combined Storage Building and
                                           Chicken Coop/Run
 Front Yard Setback (minimum)             Behind Principal Building front
                                           facade
 Side and Rear Yard Setback (minimum)     5 feet
 Height (maximum)                         10 feet, 1 story
Accessory Structure (not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                                 Must meet all Storage Building yard
                                           setbacks
 Size                                     No limit; must meet impervious
                                           surface requirements.
   Other Standards
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum)    35%
 
   Figure 12-2B-2.1 RE Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2643.png]
 
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-3: LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R-1):
   A.   Purpose of Low Density Residential (R-1) Zoning District. The R-
1 Zoning District designates areas in the community that are predominantly used
for single-family residential principal and accessory uses. Properties zoned R-
1 are primarily developed with single-family homes, curvilinear roadways,
public utilities and front-facing attached garages. Any future redevelopment is
intended to comply with the characteristics and dimensional standards of the
current development pattern.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. [
Table 12-2B-3.1 ] identifies the Dimensional Standards for Principal and
Accessory Structures.
   D.   Exception to Certain Dimensional Standards for Existing Lots of Record.
      1.   Certain subdivision plats were approved prior to the adoption of the
R-1 dimensional standards established in Table [12-2B-3.1]. An Existing Lots of
Record meeting this exception must be:
         a.   Platted prior to 1982; and
         b.   Be substandard to the required minimum lot area or lot width, or
both.
      2.   If a lot meets the definition of an Existing Lot of Record as
established in (1.) above, then the following exceptions to
Table 12-2B-3.1  Dimensional and Lot Standards shall apply. If the Existing Lot
of Record meets the following standards, then it shall be deemed conforming to
the Zoning District Standards.
         a.   Lot Area must be a minimum of 50% of the lot area established in
Table [12-2B-3.1].
         b.   Lot Width must be a minimum of 50-feet.
         c.   Lot may not be created by a new subdivision, or it shall be
deemed to be new and does not meet the definition of an Existing Lot of Record.
         d.   Minimum Side Yard Setback shall be determined by the closest
point of the existing principal structure, but in no case shall any addition or
improvement be located closer than 5-feet from the property line.
   Table 12-2B-3.1 R-1 Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                           15,000 square feet
B Lot Width (minimum)                          100 feet
   Principal Building Standards
C Front Yard Setback                            
     Newly Created Lot (new plat) - Minimum 30 feet
     Existing Lot of Record (infill) - MinimSee Section [
                                               12-4A-3.D.2.]
     Newly Created Lot (new plat) - Maximum 40 feet
     Existing Lot of Record (infill) - MaximSee Section [
                                               12-4A-3. D.2.]
D Side Yard Setback (minimum)                  10 feet interior lot line
                                               30 feet abutting a street
E Rear Yard Setback (minimum)                  30 feet
  Height (maximum)                             25 feet
   Accessory Structure Standards
Private Garages
                                               One (1) detached or one (1)
                                               attached garage per lot; see
 Number (maximum)                             [Section
                                               12-4A-8.D.2] for Exception for
                                               Two Private Garages on a Lot.
 Size (maximum)                                
                                               1,200 square feet
    If Attached Private Garage             1,201 - 1,500 square feet with
                                               CUP
    If Detached Private Garage             750 square feet
                                               751 - 1,000 square feet with CUP
                                               Up to 2,400 square feet based on
    Size of Exception for Two Private Garaglot size, see Section [
                                               12-4A-8.D.2.]
 Front Yard Setback (attached)                Minimum Front Yard Setback of
                                               Principal Building
F Front Yard Setback (detached)                Behind Principal Building front
                                               facade
  Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)        Corner lots must meet Principal
                                               Building side yard setback
H    144 to 2,000 square feet               10 feet
     Over 2,000 square feet                 15 feet
  Height (Maximum)                             May not exceed height of
                                               Principal Building
     144 to 2,000 square feet               15 feet, 1.5 stories
     2,000 to 2,400 Square Feet             18 feet, 1.5 stories
I Setback from Principal Building              5 feet
  Garage Doors                                  
     Width (maximum measured horizontally)  36 linear feet as viewed from
                                               the public right-of-way
    Height (maximum)                       9 feet, up to 12 feet with
                                               Conditional Use Permit
Storage Building
                                               One (1); See [Section
 Number (maximum)                             12-4A-8.E.a.iii.] for Exception
                                               for two Storage Buildings if
                                               Chicken Coop/Run.
                                               144 square feet for one (1)
 Size                                         Storage Building; maximum of 225
                                               square feet of combined Storage
                                               Building and Chick Coop/Run.
 Front Yard Setback (minimum)                 Behind Principal Building front
                                               facade
G Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)        5 feet
 Height (maximum)                             10 feet, 1 story
Accessory Structure (not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                                     Must meet all Accessory Building
                                               yard setbacks
                                               No limit; must meet impervious
 Size                                         surface requirements for all
                                               combined improvements.
   Other Standards
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum)        35%, or up to 50% with approved
                                               Best Management Practices (BMPs)
 
   Figure 12-2B-3.1 R-1 Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2645.png]
   (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-4:  MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R-2):
   A.   Purpose of Medium Density Residential (R-2) Zoning District. The R-
2 Zoning District designates areas in the community that are developed with
small-lot detached residential or attached residential uses. Properties zoned
R-2 are predominantly developed with duplex, triplex, townhome or rowhome
residential uses and are located within platted developments. The properties
designated within the R-2 Zoning District were generally developed as part of a
Planned Unit Development (PUD) and are subject to additional standards and
requirements as established within the PUD.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2B-4.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
Table 12-2B-4.1 R-2 Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                     5,500 square feet per unit
B Lot Width (minimum)                    35 feet per unit
   Principal Building Standards
C Minimum Width of Principal Building    20 feet (per unit)
 Minimum finished habitable floor area  1,000 square feet
D Front Yard Setback (minimum)           20 feet
  Side Yard Setback (minimum)            0 feet if attached unit
E                                       10 feet interior lot line
                                         30 feet abutting a street
F Rear Yard Setback (minimum)            30 feet
 Height (maximum)                       25 feet, 2 stories
   Accessory Structure Standards
Private Garages
 Number (maximum)                       One (1) detached private garage or one
                                         (1) attached private garage per unit.
                                         Minimum of 220 square feet and maximum
 Size (attached or detached)            of 750 square feet
                                         751 - 1,000 square feet with CUP
 Front Yard Setback (attached)          Principal Building Setbacks (minimum)
G Front Yard Setback (detached)          Behind Principal Building front facade
  Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (detached) 5 feet
 If corner lot/unit                     Must meet Principal Building front
                                         yard setback on all road frontage
 Height (maximum)                       15 feet, 1.5 stories
H Setback from Principal Building        5 feet
  (minimum)
 Garage Doors                            
                                         No more than 36 linear feet can be
    Width                            viewed from the public right-of-way,
                                         measured horizontally
    Height (maximum)                 9 feet
Storage Building
                                         One (1); See [Section
 Number (maximum per lot)               12-4A-8.E.a.iii] for Exception for two
                                         Storage Buildings if Chicken Coop/Run.
                                         144 Square Feet for one (1) Storage
 Size (maximum per lot)                 Building; maximum of 225 Square Feet
                                         of combined Storage Building and
                                         Chicken Coop/Run.
 Front Yard Setback (minimum)           Behind Principal Building front facade
 Side and Rear Yard Setback (minimum)   5 feet
 Height (maximum)                       10 feet, 1 story
Accessory Structure (not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                               Must meet all accessory building yard
                                         setbacks
                                         No limit; must meet impervious surface
 Size                                   requirements for all combined
                                         improvements.
   Other Standards
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum)  35%, or up to 50% with approved Best
                                         Management Practices (BMPs)
                                         One (1) space per unit or one (1)
 Parking (minimum)                      space per bedroom, whichever is
                                         greater (1 must be enclosed)
 
   Figure 12-2B-4.1 R-2 Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2647.png]
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-5: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-3):
   A.   Purpose of Multi-Family Residential (R-3) Zoning District. The R-
3 Zoning District designates areas in the community that are developed with
attached multi-family residential uses and supporting accessory uses.
Properties zoned R-3 are predominantly developed with apartments, condominiums
and may include townhomes or rowhomes. The properties designated within the R-
3 Zoning District were generally developed as part of a Planned Unit
Development (PUD) and may be subject to additional standards and requirements
as established within the PUD.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2B-5.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2B-5.1 R-3 Dimensional and Lot Standards
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Unit
A    Minimum Lot Size                     20,000 square feet
     Minimum Lot Size Per Unit            3,500 square feet per unit
   Principal Building Standards
B    Front Yard Setback                   50 feet
C    Side Yard Setback                    40 feet
D    Rear Yard Setback                    40 feet
    Height (maximum)                     60 feet; may exceed maximum with CUP
   Accessory Structure Standards
Private Garage
E    Front Yard Setback (minimum)         50 feet
    Side and Rear Yard Setbacks          Corner lots must meet Principal
     (minimum)                            Building side yard setback
    144 to 2,000 Square Feet             10 feet
    Over 2,000 Square Feet               15 feet
    Height (Maximum)                     May not exceed height of Principal
                                          Building
    144 to 2,000 Square Feet             15 feet, 1.5 stories
    Over 2,000 Square Feet               18 feet, 1.5 stories
  Setback from Principal Building      5 feet minimum; or as determined by
     (detached)                           the Building Official
Storage Building
                                          One (1); See Section [
                                          12-4A-8.E.1.c.] for Exception for two
    Number (maximum)                     Storage Buildings if Chicken Coop/
                                          Run. All other detached Storage
                                          Buildings Require a CUP.
                                          144 square feet for one (1) Storage
                                          Building, maximum of 225 square feet
    Size                                 of combined Storage Building and
                                          Coop/Run. All other detached Storage
                                          Buildings require a CUP.
    Front Yard Setback (minimum)         Behind Principal Building front
                                          façade
    Side and Rear Yard Setback (minimum) 5 feet
    Height (maximum)                     10 feet, 1 story
Accessory Structure (not meeting definition of Building)
    Setbacks                             Must meet all Storage Building yard
                                          setbacks
                                          No limit, must meet impervious
    Size                                 surface requirements for all combined
                                          improvements
   Parking and Other Standards
    Impervious Surface Coverage          50%, or up to 65% with approved Best
     (maximum)                            Management Practices (BMPs)
                                          One (1) space per unit or one (1)
    Parking (minimum)                    space per bedroom, whichever is
                                          greater
       Enclosed Parking               One space must be enclosed per unit
       Surface Parking minimum setback40 feet from public ROW and 10 feet
                                          from any Principal Building
    Design Standards                     See Section [12-4B-3E.]
 
   Figure 12-2B-5.1 R-3 Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2649.png]
   (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-6: MIXED-USE (MU):
   A.   Purpose of Mixed-Use Zoning District. The MU Zoning District designates
areas in the community that are developed with a mix of both residential and
business uses within an area, on an individual parcel, or lot. Properties zoned
MU are predominately developed with a mix of multi-family attached residential
uses, retail, and commercial uses. The properties designated within the MU are
regulated by a Planned Unit Development (PUD) plan and are subject to
additional standards and requirements as established within the PUD.
   B.   Permitted Uses. The allowed uses are established within the Planned
Unit Development (PUD) agreement for a specific area. Generally, the permitted,
conditional, and accessory uses contained in the R-2, R-3, B-1 and B-2 Zoning
Districts are potentially allowable. See Chapter 3. Allowed Uses for specific
uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. All MU Districts are subject to
a PUD. The PUD for the development establishes the specific dimensional
standards for the development type. The Base District considerations for
residential uses are the R-2 Medium Density Residential or R-3 Multi-Family
Residential Zoning District standards, and for business uses are the B-
2 Neighborhood Business District standards. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-7: GENERAL BUSINESS (B-1):
   A.   Purpose of B-1 General Business District. The B-1 Zoning District
designates areas in the community that are developed, or intended to be
developed, with retail, commercial, office, and service uses that serve the
larger region. Examples of uses within the General Business Zoning District may
include office or business parks, larger shopping areas, or a medical service
campus. Properties zoned General Business have access to larger roadways and
collectors and are located in areas not intended to connect to residential
neighborhoods.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2B-7.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2B-7.1 General Business Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                    20,000 square feet
B Lot Width (minimum)                   150 feet
   Principal Building Standards
C Front Yard Setback (minimum)          50 feet
     Abutting a major thoroughfare   100 feet
D Side Yard Setback (minimum)           40 feet
     Adjacent to a street            40 feet
     Adjacent to a Residential Distri50 feet
E Rear Yard Setback (minimum)           40 feet
     Adjacent to a Residential Distri50 feet
  Height (maximum)                      Two (2) stories or 35 feet (height
                                        exceeding 30 feet must obtain a CUP)
   Accessory Structure Standards
All Accessory Buildings
 Front Yard Setback                    Behind Principal Building
F Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)  
     Less than 144 Square Feet       5 feet
     144 to 2,000 Square Feet        10 feet
     Over 2,000 Square Feet          15 feet
G Setback from Principal Building       5 feet
  (minimum)
  Height (maximum)                      May not exceed height of Principal
                                        Building
                                        One (1) Storage Building not to exceed
 Size and Number                       144 Square Feet is Permitted; All other
                                        requires CUP
Accessory Structure (not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                              Must meet all Accessory Building yard
                                        setbacks
                                        No limit, must meet impervious surface
 Size                                  requirements for all combined
                                        improvements.
   Other Standards
 Building Coverage (maximum)           50%
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum) 60%, or up to 75% with approved Best
                                        Management Practices (BMPs)
 Parking                               See [Section
                                        12-4A-9]
 
   Figure 12-2B-7.1 General Business Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2651.png]
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-8: NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS (B-2):
   A.   Purpose of Neighborhood Business (B-2) District. The B-2 Neighborhood
Business Zoning District designates areas in the community that are developed,
or intended to be developed, with small-scale retail, commercial and service
uses that are supportive of the surrounding residential neighborhoods.
Properties zoned B-2 are located along key neighborhood corridors and at
neighborhood nodes and are intended to serve the local community.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See
Chapter 3 : Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2B-8.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2B-8.1 Neighborhood Business Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                     15,000 square feet
B Lot Width (minimum)                    100 feet
   Principal Building Standards
C Front Yard Setback (minimum)           20 feet
D Side Yard Setback (minimum)            15 feet or equal to height of
                                         structure, whichever is greater
E Rear Yard Setback (minimum)            30 feet or equal to height of
                                         structure, whichever is greater
 If adjacent to Residential Base Zoning 50 feet from all property lines
  District or Residential Use
 Height (maximum)                       3 stories or 30 feet, whichever is
                                         less
   Accessory Structure Standards
All Accessory Buildings
F Front Yard Setback                     Behind Principal Building
 Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)   
    Less than 144 Square Feet        5 feet
    144 to 2,000 Square Feet         10 feet
    Over 2,000 Square Feet           15 feet
G Setback from Principal Building        5 feet
  (minimum)
 Height (Maximum)                       May not exceed height of Principal
                                         Building
                                         One (1) Storage Building not to exceed
 Size and Number                        144 Square Feet is Permitted; All
                                         other requires a CUP
Accessory Structures (Not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                               Must meet all Accessory Building yard
                                         setbacks
                                         No limit, must meet impervious surface
 Size                                   requirements for all combined
                                         improvements.
   Other Standards
 Building Coverage (maximum)            50%
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum)  60%, or up to 75% with approved Best
                                         Management Practices (BMPs)
 Parking                                See Section [
                                         12-4A-9]
 
   Figure 12-2B-8.1 Neighborhood Business Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2655.png]
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-9: INDUSTRIAL (I):
   A.   Purpose of Industrial (I) District. The Industrial Zoning District
designates areas in the community that are developed, or intended to be
developed, with light and creative industrial uses. Examples of uses within the
Industrial Zoning District may include warehouses, light manufacturing, office,
and utilities.
   B.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2B-9.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2B-9.1 Industrial Dimensional and Lot Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
A Lot Size (minimum)                    1 acre
B Lot Width (minimum)                   100 feet
   Principal Building Standards
 Front Yard Setback (minimum)          40 feet
C Front Yard Setback (minimum)          50 feet abutting a Residential Base
                                        Zoning District or Residential Use
                                        30 feet interior lot line
D Side Yard Setback (minimum)           40 feet abutting a public street
                                        50 feet abutting a Residential Base
                                        Zoning District or Residential Use
                                        50 feet
E Rear Yard Setback (minimum)           100 feet abutting a Residential Base
                                        Zoning District or Residential Use
 Height (maximum)                      45 feet
   Parking Setbacks
F Parking Spaces or Aisles               
 From any Public Right-of-Way (ROW)    20 feet
 Any building or lot line              10 feet
   Accessory Structure Standards
F Front Yard Setback                    Behind Principal Building
G Side and Rear Yard Setbacks (minimum)  
     Less than 144 Square Feet       5 feet
     144 to 2,000 Square Feet        10 feet
     Over 2,000 Square Feet          15 feet
H Setback from Principal Building       5 feet
 Height                                May not exceed height of Principal
                                        Building
                                        One (1) Storage Building not to exceed
 Size and Number                       144 Square Feet is Permitted; All other
                                        requires CUP
Accessory Structure (Not meeting definition of Building)
 Setbacks                              Must meet all Accessory Building yard
                                        setbacks
                                        No limit, must meet impervious surface
 Size                                  requirements for all combined
                                        improvements.
   Other Standards
 Building Coverage (maximum)           50%
 Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum) 75%, up to 90% with approved Best
                                        Management Practices (BMPs)
 Parking                               See [Section
                                        12-4A-9]
 
   Figure 12-2B-9.1 Industrial Lot Diagram Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2657.png]
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2B-10: STATE PARK (SP):
   A.   Purpose of State Park District. The State Park District designates
areas which are owned by the State of Minnesota Department of Natural Resources
and located within Fort Snelling State Park.
   B.   Permitted Uses. The uses permitted in the areas designated as State
Park shall be as regulated and permitted by Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
   C.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. The City of Mendota Heights
incorporates the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (MNDNR) any
applicable dimensional standards by reference into this Chapter. (Ord. 592, 9-
17-2024)
ARTICLE C. OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-2C-1: Public/Semi-Public Overlay District (PSP-O)
12-2C-2: Planned Unit Development Overlay Districts (PUD)
12-2C-3: Floodplain Overlay District (FP-O)
12-2C-4: Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area (MRCCA) Overlay District
12-2C-1: PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (PSP-O):
   A.   Purpose of Public Semi-Public (PSP) Overlay District. The PSP Overlay
Zoning District designates areas in the community that are developed and used
for public and semi-public uses that are non-residential. Examples of uses
within the PSP Overlay Zoning District may include schools, golf courses,
cemeteries, parks, municipal buildings, religious campuses. Properties zoned
Public Semi-Public Overlay are often adjacent to existing neighborhoods and
serve the residents of the community.
   B.   Termination of PSP Overlay Use. If a property that is zoned PSP-O is no
longer used consistent with the standards established herein, the Base Zoning
District standards, regulations and provisions shall govern.
   C.   Permitted Uses. See Chapter 3: Allowed Uses and reference the
applicable Base Zoning District and Public/Semi-Public Uses. Within the
Residential Zoning Districts defined as RE, R-1, R-2 and R-3 the Public/Semi-
Public uses are only permitted within a designated PSP-O district area.
   D.   Zoning District Dimensional Standards. Table [12-2C-1.1] identifies the
Dimensional Standards for non-residential Principal and Accessory Structures.
   Table 12-2C-1.1 PSP-O Dimensional Standards
Lot Dimensions
Lot Dimensions
Lot Size (minimum)                    1 acre
Lot Width (minimum)                   100 feet
   Principal Building Standards
Front Yard Setback (minimum)          75 feet
Side Yard Setback (minimum)           50 feet
Rear Yard Setback (minimum)           50 feet
Height (maximum)                      Base Zoning District, or up to 40 feet
                                      with CUP
Accessory Structure Standards
All Accessory Buildings
Front Yard Setback                    Principal Building Setback or Behind
                                      Principal Building, if present
Side and Rear Yard Setbacks            
   Less than 144 Square Feet       10 feet
   144 to 2,000 Square Feet        20 feet
   Over 2,000 Square Feet          50 feet
Setback from Principal Building       5 feet
Height                                May not exceed height of Principal
                                      Building; or 25 feet whichever is greater
                                      One (1) Storage Building not to exceed
Size and Number                       144 square feet is Permitted; All other
                                      requires CUP
Accessory Structures (not meeting definition of Building)
Setbacks                              Must meet all accessory structure
                                      setbacks
                                      No limit; must meet impervious surface
Size                                  requirements for all combined
                                      improvements.
   Other Standards
Building Coverage (maximum)           50%
Impervious Surface Coverage (maximum) 60%, or up to 75% with approved Best
                                      Management Practices (BMPs)
 
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2C-2: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICTS (PUD):
   A.   Purpose of Planned Unit Development Overlay Zoning Districts (PUD). The
purpose of the Planned Unit Development is to encourage innovative and creative
development of land that would not be permitted under the strict application of
a Base Zoning District. Such innovative or creative development may be:
      1.   Development that preserves the natural and scenic quality of open
areas.
      2.   Development that encourages a diverse mix of housing types.
      3.   Usage of multiple Base Zoning Districts within one development area.
      4.   Other development solutions as approved by the City Council.
   B.   PUD as an Overlay Zoning District. All proposed PUD developments must
be rezoned with a Base Zoning District(s) and a designating PUD Overlay.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The permitted, conditional and accessory uses are
generally as established within the Base Zoning District. Flexibility,
modifications or additional restrictions regarding uses shall be established by
the City Council during the PUD approval process.
   D.   Required Standards. A PUD Overlay District must demonstrate the
following:
      1.   That the development and design is an appropriate use for the
property and is compatible with surrounding development.
      2.   That the streets and utilities are adequate and do not adversely
affect the economical and efficient delivery of municipal services.
      3.   That the scale of the development is compatible with adjacent land
uses and is consistent with the standards established in Chapter 4 of this
Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   Overlay District Dimensional Standards. A separate PUD Overlay District
shall govern each development project or development area. The PUD must
identify a Base Zoning District from which the development is derived. The PUD
must clearly state the dimensional standards from which flexibility is
requested. If approved, the approved standards for the PUD shall be established
within the PUD Agreement and shall be deemed the Dimensional Standards for that
PUD Overlay District. The process and administration for each PUD Overlay
District is established in Chapter 5 of this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 592, 9-17-
2024)
12-2C-3: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP-O):
   A.   Purpose of Floodplain Overlay (FP-O) District. The FP-O Zoning District
identifies lands that are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) as contained within the floodway or floodway that is further defined in
Title 15: Environmental Standards of the City’s Code of Ordinances.
   B.   FP-O as an Overlay Zoning District. The land contained within the FP-
O may not follow parcel boundaries or lot lines and the standards established
are applicable to that portion of a property within the mapped overlay.
Determination of the land area contained within the FP-O is determined by the
FIRM maps that are managed and produced by FEMA. The process for amending or
modifying the boundaries is established and regulated by FEMA or its designated
assigns.
   C.   Permitted Uses. The Permitted Uses are established for the Floodway and
Floodplain District Areas as follows:
      1.   Floodway District Permitted Uses.
         a.   All buildings, structures, construction grading and deposits that
are essential to the operation of the community such as bridges, sewer
outfalls, power and telephone line supports, and other services structures.
         b.   Low damage or no damage potential uses such as agriculture,
parking lots, parks, recreation areas and docking facilities. Provided that no
building, structure or improvements are erected, and no filling or grading is
undertaken unless they are designed and constructed to not obstruct flood flow.
Plans for such work must be approved in writing by the Public Works Director
and must be filed with the City Council.
      2.   Floodplain District Permitted Uses. All buildings, structures,
construction grading and deposits that are permitted under the Base Zoning
District as established in Chapter 3. Allowed Uses, provided that:
         a.   No residence shall be constructed unless the ground upon which
such residence is to be erected, and 20-feet beyond the limits of such
residence, and the entire access drive to the public street shall prior to or
at the time of such construction, be raised to an elevation not less than one
foot (1') above the design flood elevation as shown on the FIRM maps, and the
first floor of such residence shall not be less than three feet (3') above the
design flood elevation.
         b.   No basement floor shall be constructed to an elevation lower than
the design flood elevation unless such basement has been designed to withstand
pressure from water at the design flood elevation and certified by a registered
professional engineer with such condition being made a part of the building
permit. No street grades shall be placed at a lower elevation than the design
flood elevation.
         c.   Filling or excavating in the bed of a lake or stream below high-
water mark or pumping water into or out of water bodies may be permitted
subject to the approval of the City Council and subject to a permit previously
obtained from the commissioner of natural resources as required by Minnesota
State Statutes.
         d.   Construction of streets, residences and other buildings at
elevations below design flood elevations may be permitted if adequate flood
protection is provided. Any flood protective works must be approved in writing
by the City Council prior to the granting of building permits.
         e.   Issuance of Building Permit. Before a building permit shall be
issued for a building, structure, construction, grading or deposit for a
floodway or floodplain, the applicant must provide a completed application for
building permits, all plans, exhibits and certification required by this
Chapter and the written approval of other governmental agencies as required by
this Chapter and Zoning Ordinance 15: Environmental Standards.
   D.   Overlay District Dimensional Standards. The dimensional standards are
as established within the Base Zoning District and within Zoning Ordinance
Title 15: Environmental Standards. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-2C-4: MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA (MRCCA) OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose of MRCCA Overlay District. The purpose of the MRCCA Overlay
Zoning District is to establish standards and requirements for land within
proximity to the Mississippi River Corridor. The standards and areas contained
within the MRRCA Overlay District are established in Chapter [6] of this Zoning
Ordinance.
   B.   Permitted Uses. The permitted, conditional and accessory uses are
generally as established for the Base Zoning District as identified in Chapter
3. Allowed Uses. Additional standards regarding land within the MRCCA Overlay
District boundary are established in Chapter 6. Mississippi River Corridor
Critical Area.
   C.   Overlay District Dimensional Standards. The dimensional standards of
the Base Zoning District and as contained within Chapter [6] shall be
applicable. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ALLOWED USES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3A-1: Uses Contained In This Chapter
12-3A-2: Uses Not Identified In This Chapter
12-3A-3: General Standards Applicable For Uses
12-3A-1: USES CONTAINED IN THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Purpose. This Chapter is intended to describe the land uses that are
permitted; permitted provided certain performance standards or requirements are
met; permitted with a conditional or interim use permit; or that are prohibited
within the City.
   B.   Uses within the Base Zoning District. This Chapter is organized to
establish the allowed and prohibited uses by Base Zoning District. All
properties and land within the City have been assigned a Base Zoning District
that shall regulate the uses contained within this Chapter.
   C.   Uses within an Overlay District. Properties fully or partially
contained within an Overlay District may be subject to additional standards,
requirements, or prohibitions regarding use. Established uses are categorized
by the Base Zoning District, with additional restrictions, regulations or
prohibitions provided in the applicable Overlay District following the Table of
Uses.
   D.   Required Permits and Process. If a use requires an Administrative,
Conditional, Interim or Administrative Permit the process shall be followed as
described in Chapter [5] of this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-3A-2: USES NOT IDENTIFIED IN THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   Uses not identified in this Chapter. If a proposed use is not
specifically identified, permitted or prohibited in any Base Zoning District,
the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case, the following steps may
be taken to consider a Text Amendment to this Chapter:
      1.   The City Council or Planning Commission, on their own initiative,
may conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable, and if so, initiate
a Text Amendment.
      2.   The Applicant, and the Fee Owner of the property if different, may
make an application to the City to consider an amendment to this Chapter.
      3.   When a valid request, as established by subsection 1 or 2, is made
for a Text Amendment the City shall initiate a study to determine if the use is
appropriate, and if so, what Base Zoning District is most appropriate. The
study shall also include any conditions and standards relating to the use.
      4.   The Zoning Text Amendment Process shall follow the process as
established in Section [12-5B-3] of this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 592, 9-17-
2024)
12-3A-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE FOR USES:
   A.   Other Agencies with Jurisdiction of Uses in the City. In addition to
the standards and regulations established by the City contained within this
Chapter, any use of property must comply with the standards established by
other regulatory agencies and authorities that may have jurisdiction over the
use. It is the Applicant or Property Owner’s responsibility to comply with any
required regulations, standards and permitting of other agencies. The following
list of other agencies are provided as reference, but such list may not be all
inclusive.
      1.   Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (MnDNR), Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota
Board of Water and Soil Resources, Minnesota Department of Transportation
(MnDOT), Minnesota Department of Agriculture, Dakota County, Federal
Communications Commission (FCC). (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES
SECTION:
12-3B-1: Table Of Uses
12-3B-2: Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-3: Residential Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-4: Business/Commercial Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-5: Industrial, Transportation And Utility Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-6: Public, Semi-Public Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-7: Accessory Use Specific Regulations
12-3B-1: TABLE OF USES:
   A.   Table of Uses. The following Table [12-3B-1.1] Table of Uses is
organized by Use Type/Classification and Base Zoning District. The Table of
Uses classifies the identified use as either permitted, permitted through
regulation, requirement, permit or prohibited.
   B.   Establishing Principal Use. The Table of Uses generally identifies
principal uses of property except the subsection which explicitly identifies
Accessory Uses. Each property must establish a Principal Use; however more than
one use of a property may exist. In all cases the proper permits must be
obtained for any principal or accessory uses of a property. It should be noted
that if a mix of uses is present on a property the property may be subject to a
Planned Unit Development (PUD).
Table 12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses
P      Permitted Principal Use
CUP      Conditional Use Permit
IUP      Interim Use Permit
AP      Administrative Permit
blank      Prohibited
*Note: If a use is not identified on the Table, then it is prohibited.
     BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                                                               Use Specific
                                                                                               Section
                                                                                               (See
     RE          R-1         R-2         R-3             B-1      B-2                       referenced
Land                       Medium      Multi-      MU                                section for
Use  Residential Low Density Density     Family            General  Neighborhood I            more
     Estate      Residential Residential Residential Mixed  Business Business     Industrial   information;
                                                     Use                                       other
                                                                                               requirements
                                                                                               may also
                                                                                               apply.)
                                                                       BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
                                                                                                                                                                 Use Specific
                                                                                                                                                                 Section
                                                                                                                                                                 (See
                                                                       RE          R-1         R-2         R-3             B-1      B-2                       referenced
Land Use                                                                                     Medium      Multi-      MU                                section for
                                                                       Residential Low Density Density     Family            General  Neighborhood I            more
                                                                       Estate      Residential Residential Residential Mixed  Business Business     Industrial   information;
                                                                                                                       Use                                       other
                                                                                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                                                                                 may also
                                                                                                                                                                 apply.)
   RESIDENTIAL USES
Customized (assisted) living facilities                                CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP                                       12-3B-3B.1
Farming Operations                                                     P           P           P           P                                                     12-3B-3B.2
Manufactured home park                                                                                     CUP
Mixed Use Building including residential use                                                               CUP         CUP             CUP
Multi-family attached dwelling units (5-24 Units)                                              CUP         P           CUP
Multi-family attached dwelling units (25+ Units)                                                           CUP         CUP
Nursing homes, rest homes or retirement homes                                                              CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP
Single Family Detached Dwelling Unit                                   P           P           P           CUP         CUP
Single Family Attached Dwelling Units (2-4 Units)                                              P           P           P
State licensed residential program with a licensed capacity from seven                         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP                       12-3B-3B.3
(7) through sixteen (16) persons
   COMMERCIAL/BUSINESS USES
Adult Uses                                                                                                                                          CUP          12-3B-4 B.1
Animal hospital (cat clinic, veterinary clinic, or similar)                                                                   CUP      CUP                       12-3B-4 B.2
Armories, convention halls, community centers, sports arenas and                                                              CUP      CUP          CUP
stadiums (excluding school uses)
Art studio, interior decorating studio, photographic studio, music
studio, provided no retail sales are made of products not                                                              CUP    CUP
manufacturing on the site
Banks and banking institutions without drive-in facilities                                                             P      P        P
Boats and marine sales when conducted entirely within a building                                                              P
Bowling alleys, billiard and pool rooms, skating rinks, liquor stores,                                                 CUP    CUP      CUP
fraternal organizations and similar uses
Brewery, Cidery or Micro-Distillery                                                                                    CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-4 B.3
Cannabis retailer                                                                                                             CUP      CUP                       3-8-1
Commercial recreation, when conducted within a completely enclosed                                                            CUP                   CUP
building
Commercial recreation, outdoor                                                                                         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-4 B.4
Crematorium                                                                                                                                         CUP
Daycare centers                                                                                                        P      P        P
Drive through/Drive-in business                                                                                        CUP    CUP      CUP                       12-3B-4 B.5
Dry cleaning and laundry service                                                                                       CUP    CUP      CUP
Fitness and health club                                                                                                CUP    P        CUP          CUP
Food Trucks                                                            AP          AP          AP          AP          AP     AP       AP           AP
Food Hall                                                                                                                     CUP      CUP          CUP
Funeral homes and mortuaries                                                                                                  CUP                   CUP
Garden supply store, provided it is conducted entirely within an                                                              P        P
enclosed structure
Greenhouse, commercial, provided all outside storage is fenced in such
a manner so as to screen the stored material from view when observed                                                          P                     P
from the public street
Laundromat of the self-service type                                                                                    P      P        P
Lower-potency hemp edible retailer                                                                                                                  CUP          3-8-1
Massage therapy business, subject to the licensing requirements of                                                     P      P        P
this code
Massage therapy services to the general public for purposes of a
teaching program accredited by the National Certification Board for
Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork and the Accrediting Commission of                                                            CUP                   CUP
Career Schools and Colleges of Technology as an accessory use to
colleges, universities, and permitted postsecondary institutions in
which no fee is charged for the services
Medical and dental clinics or services                                                                                 P      P        P            CUP
Motel and hotel                                                                                                               CUP                   CUP          12-3B-4 B.6
Motor fuel stations and motor fuel station convenience stores                                                          CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-4 B.7
Offices (non-retail)                                                                                                   P      P        P            P
Optical and jewelry sales or manufacturing                                                                             P      P        P            P
Pet shop, provided the operation shall not include the boarding of
pets on the site, the maintaining of pens or cages outside of the                                                             P
building, and the business is operated so as to not cause offensive
odor or noise
Pipe and tobacco shop                                                                                                  CUP    CUP      CUP
Publishing houses, printing shops                                                                                             P
Private clubs and lodges                                                                                   CUP         CUP    CUP
Radio and television repair                                                                                                   P
Research centers and laboratories                                                                                             P
Residential programs for treatment of chemically dependent adults                                                             CUP                                12-3B-4 B.8
Restaurant, café, tearoom, coffee shop, ice cream shop, delicatessen,                                                 P      P        P            CUP
etc. no drive-in
Retail Sales and Services less than 15,000 square feet (e.g. clothing                                                  P      P        P                         12-3B-4 B.9
shop, book store, pharmacy, grocery store, barbershop, salon, etc.)
Retail Sales and Services greater than 15,000 square feet (e.g.
clothing shop, book store, pharmacy, grocery store, barbershop, salon,                                                 CUP    CUP      P                         12-3B-4 B.10
etc.)
Sporting goods store, excluding the sale of firearms of any variety or                                                 P      P        P
ammunition
Theaters, excluding drive-ins                                                                                          CUP    CUP      CUP
Ticket offices and travel bureaus                                                                                      P      P
   INDUSTRIAL, TRANSPORTATION & UTILITY USES
Airports, truck and freight terminals, team tracks and open sales lots                                                                              CUP
Alternative Energy Systems (Ground mounted solar energy systems that
are accessory to the principal use of the land and are designed to     CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-5 B.1
onsite uses)
Alternative Energy Systems (Roof mounted solar energy systems that are
accessory to the principal use of the land and are designed to supply  P           P           P           P           P      P        P            P            12-3B-5 B.1
energy to on site uses)
Automobile and other vehicles of transportation sales when conducted                                                          P                     CUP
entirely within a building
Automobile repair, major or minor, when conducted completely within an                                                 CUP    CUP      CUP          P
enclosed building
Bus terminals and maintenance garages                                                                                         CUP                   P
Cannabis microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis cultivator,
cannabis manufacturer, cannabis wholesaler, cannabis testing facility,                                                                              CUP          3-8-1
lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer, medical cannabis combination
business
Dog daycare, may include overnight boarding                                                                                                         CUP
Dog training facility                                                                                                                               CUP          12-3B-5 B.2
Electrical service, heating, plumbing, appliances, upholstery or air
conditioning service shop, provided they do not employ more than six                                                          CUP                   CUP
(6) persons in repair or processing
Essential service structures                                           CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-5 B.3
Landscaping, and construction, requiring equipment                                                                                                  P            12-3B-5 B.4
Manufacturing, conducted within a completely enclosed building
(Excluding the manufacturing uses as expressly defined in this Table                                                          P                     P
of Uses)
Manufacturing, conducted within a completely enclosed building, of one
or more of the following: Batteries, laundries, metal polishing and
plating, paper products from previously processed paper, rubber and                                                                                 C
synthetic rubber products, sheet metal work, ornamental iron, welding,
stamping
Outdoor storage and display of materials and equipment accessory to                                                                                 CUP          12-3B-5B.5
landscaping and building design and construction
Personal self-storage facility                                                                                                                      CUP          12-3B-5 G
Sales and servicing of heating equipment, air conditioning equipment
and electrical appliances; provided, that there shall not be more than                                                        CUP      CUP          P
six (6) persons employed upon said premises in the repair or servicing
of said equipment or appliances
Stone and monument sales                                                                                                      CUP                   CUP
Scientific research, investigation, testing and experimentation,                                                       CUP    CUP                   P
including laboratories
Railroad spurs and siding                                                                                                                           P
Ready mix concrete and concrete products plants                                                                                                     CUP
Through train operation, but not switching, storage or any other       CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP
railroad operation
Uses which are permitted under Section [12-1I-8] of this Chapter which                                                        CUP                   CUP
involve the storage or uses of materials which decompose by detonation
Warehousing and distribution, abutting a Residential Base Zoning                                                              CUP                   CUP          12-3B-5 B.6
District
Warehousing and distribution, not abutting a Residential Base Zoning                                                          CUP                   P
District
Wholesale office and showroom                                                                                                 P                     P
Wireless Antennas, Towers, and Accessory Structures                    CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-5 B.7
PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC USES (Note that PSP Uses in RE, R-1, R-2, and R-3 are only permitted
within the designated PSP-O district as shown on the Official Zoning Map)
Business or trade school when conducted entirely within a building                                                            CUP                   CUP
Cemeteries and/or cemetery structures; provided, that no buildings     CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP
shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any abutting property line
Colleges, universities, and post-secondary schools, public and private
includes postsecondary skill based educational institutions that offer                                                        CUP      CUP          CUP
programs that award certificates, degrees, or certified training to
full and/or part time students
Cultural Centers, Places of Assembly                                                                                          CUP                   CUP          12-3B-6 B.1
Elementary, Middle, and Secondary, public and private                  CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP                       12-3B-6 B.3
Golf courses, country clubs, tennis clubs, public swimming pools,      CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP
archery range
Governmental buildings and structures                                                                                  CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-3B-6 B.4
Historical buildings, museums, art institutes, galleries and                                                           CUP    CUP      CUP
playhouses
Hospitals for human care, sanatoriums, rest homes and nursing homes    CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP
Library                                                                                        CUP         CUP                P        P
Municipal buildings and structures                                     CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         P      P        P            P            12-3B-6 B.4
Off leash dog area (not associated with multi-family residential use)                                                  IUP                          IUP          12-3B-6 B.5
Outdoor Recreational Facilities, including Athletic Fields             CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         P      P        P            P            12-3B-6 B.6
Public parks and playgrounds                                           P           P           P           P           P
Private nursery and/or daycare schools                                 CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP                                       12-3B-6 B.7
Religious institutions and places of worship                           CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP                                       12-3B-6 B.8
   ACCESSORY USES
Accessory Buildings or Structures (CUP required as regulated by use or AP (CUP)    AP (CUP)    AP (CUP)    AP (CUP)    AP     AP (CUP) AP (CUP)     AP (CUP)     12-4A-7 B.1
Zoning District)                                                                                                       (CUP)
Buildings temporarily located for purposes of constructing on the
premises for a period not to exceed time necessary for such            AP          AP          AP          AP          AP     AP       AP
constructing
Commercial Outdoor Recreation facilities, must be accessory to                                                         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP
principal building with compatible use
Enclosed retail sales accessory to permitted industrial use                                                                                         CUP          12-4A-7 B.2
Gardening and other horticultural uses where no sale of products is    P           P           P           P           P
conducted on the premises
Home occupation                                                        P           P           P           P           P                                         12-4A-7 B.3
Incidental repair, processing or storage necessary to conduct a
permitted principal use not to exceed more than 20 percent of the                                                      AP     AP       AP           AP
gross floor area of the principal building
Keeping of bees                                                        AP          AP          AP          AP                                                    12-4A-7 B.4
Keeping of chickens for noncommercial purposes                         AP          AP          AP          AP          AP                                        12-4A-7 B.5
Keeping of Domestic animals                                            P           P           P           P           P
Keeping of Livestock (typical farm animals)                            AP          AP                                                                            FOR
                                                                                                                                                                 DISCUSSION
Off-leash dog area or run (typically associated with multi-family use)                         AP          AP
Off street parking                                                     CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP         CUP    CUP      CUP          CUP          12-4A-7 B.6
Outdoor Storage                                                                                                               CUP                   CUP
Private swimming pool, tennis courts, or similar recreational
facilities intended for use by the occupants of a multi-family                                 AP          AP          AP                                        12-3B-7 B.7
building and their guests of the property
Signs                                                                  AP          AP          AP          AP          AP     AP       AP           AP           12-4A-7 B.8
Temporary storage of hazardous waste                                                                                   P      P        P            P
Video/electronic display scoreboard for an athletic field on the       AP          AP          AP          AP          AP                                        12-3B-7 B.9
campus of a school
 
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024; amd. Ord. 596, 12-17-2024)
12-3B-2: USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Standards Established. The following Use Specific Regulations
are established as minimum requirements. Any use identified on [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ] that requires an Interim Use Permit or Conditional
Use Permit may be subject to additional reasonable conditions as established
during the applicable permitting process.
   B.   Applicability. All uses must comply with the rules and regulations of
the Base Zoning District, and any applicable Overlay District. Any use must
also meet the rules and regulations of any other applicable agencies with
jurisdiction of the subject use including local, State and Federal Agencies.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-3B-3: RESIDENTIAL USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Residential Standards. The City has determined that a variety
of residential uses are permitted or permitted with certain conditions provided
certain standards and regulations are met, and that proper permitting and
processes are followed. The following standards are applicable to all uses
identified in the RE, R-1, R-2 and R-3 Base Zoning Districts:
      1.   A principal residential use shall be present on each property.
      2.   Separate licenses or permits, which may be regulated by other Titles
or Chapters of the City Code may be applicable and it is the responsibility of
the Owner to obtain all necessary or required permits.
      3.   Accessory uses must be clearly incidental to the principal
residential use.
   B.   Specific Residential Use Standards: The following specific use
standards are established for Residential Uses as identified on the
Table of Uses [12-3B-1.1]  and are organized alphabetically.
      1.   Customized (Assisted) Living Facilities . The following standards
are established:
         a.   The assisted living facility is state licensed.
         b.   A maximum of seven (7) persons (not including the facility
manager and professional care attendants) may reside on the premises.
         c.   A maximum of six (6) sleeping rooms (not including rooms utilized
by the house manager and professional care attendants) per facility.
         d.   Facility residents must be 65 years of age or older.
         e.   The Applicant must provide proof that room size meets current
state licensing standards for two (2) persons.
         f.   Facilities shall only be constructed or altered in a manner that
is consistent with the single-family character of the neighborhood.
         g.   The property must be compliant with the City’s property
maintenance code, as well as other applicable municipal codes, including, but
not limited to, minimum parking requirements.
      2.   Farming Operations. All existing farms will be permitted to continue
operation after the abolition of the Farm Residence District within the City,
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Agriculture Permitted; Exceptions: Agriculture, excepting
commercial animal farms, fur farms, kennels and poultry farms, but including
truck gardening and other horticultural uses, and horses for use of the
occupants of the premises, is a permitted use in the district in which an
existing operation or private stable is located; provided, that any new private
stable or other new building in which farm animals are kept shall be a distance
of 100-feet or more from any other lot in an R District.
         b.   Sales Of Agricultural Products. Limited sales of products
produced may be conducted on the premises from a roadside stand, but such stand
shall not exceed one story in height or 500 square feet in floor area, and no
portion of any such stand shall be located or erected nearer than 50-feet from
any street line.
      3.   State Licensed Residential Program. The following standards are
established:
         a.    Must be a licensed program with capacity from seven (7) through
16 persons.
         b.   Must obtain a Conditional Use Permit.
         c.   The City Council may set reasonable conditions deemed necessary
to assure proper maintenance and operation of a residential program that
protects the health and safety of the residents of the facility. (Ord. 592, 9-
17-2024)
12-3B-4: BUSINESS/COMMERCIAL USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Standards. The City has determined that the following uses are
permitted provided certain regulations and standards are met, and that proper
permitting and processes are followed. The following standards shall be
applicable to all uses identified in the Neighborhood Business and General
Commercial Zoning Districts:
      1.   Any non-residential principal use shall meet the following minimum
requirements, regardless of Base Zoning District:
         a.   Non-residential Principal Use: A minimum setback of 50-feet from
all property lines abutting a Residential Base Zoning District or established
residential use.
         b.   Any Use or Structure associated with the keeping of animals: 100-
feet setback from all property lines abutting a Residential Base Zoning
District or established residential use.
         c.   A Site Plan must be submitted for review and approval for any
proposed changes or modifications to the exterior of building, site, or for a
change in use, as established in Section [
12-5B-4 ].
   B.   Specific Business/Commercial Use Standards. The following specific use
standards are established for Business/Commercial Uses as identified on the
Table of Uses [12-3B-1.1]  and are organized alphabetically.
      1.   Adult Uses.
         a.   Intent and Purpose.
            (1)   The City Council for the City of Mendota Heights deems it
necessary to provide for the special and express regulation of businesses or
commercial enterprises which operate as adult uses and similar sexually-
oriented services operating under different names in order to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, and to guard against the inception and
transmission of disease.
            (2)   The City Council also finds the nature of Adult Uses is such
that they are recognized as having adverse secondary characteristics,
particularly when they are accessible to minors and located near residential
property or related residential uses such as Schools, Daycare Centers,
Libraries or Parks. Furthermore, the concentration of Adult Uses has an adverse
effect upon the use and enjoyment of adjacent areas. The nature of Adult Uses
requires that they not be allowed within certain zoning districts, or within
minimum distances from each other or residential uses. Special regulation of
Adult Uses is necessary to ensure that the adverse secondary effects will not
contribute or enhance criminal activity in the area of such uses nor will it
contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding property and the
lessening of its value.
            (3)   The City Council further finds that control and regulation of
commercial establishments of these types, in view of the abuses often
perpetrated, require intensive efforts by the police department and other
departments of the City. As a consequence, the concentrated use of City
services in such control detracts from and reduces the level of service
available to the rest of the community and thereby diminishes the ability of
the City to promote the general health, welfare, morals and safety of the
community. In consideration for the necessity on the part of the City to
provide numerous services to all segments of the community without a
concentration of public services in one area working to the detriment of the
members of the general public, it is hereby decided that the above described
uses should be limited to the I-Industrial Zoning Districts as a Conditional
Use only.
         b.   Definitions. The Definitions applicable to Adult Uses are
established within [Chapter 8] and are categorized as Adult Uses.
         c.   Standards. Adult Uses shall be permitted by a Conditional Use
Permit only, and in accordance with City Code [Section
12-5B-5 ] of this Zoning Ordinance and subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Conditional Use. The provisions and standards of Section [
12-5B-5 ] are fully considered and satisfactorily met.
            (2)   Location. Adult Uses shall be located at least 600 radial
feet, as measured in a straight line from the closest point to the property
line of the building upon which the Adult Use is located to the property line
of the following uses or areas:
               (A)   Any Residential Base Zoning District(s) and any
established residential use(s).
               (B)   Any building which is utilized for residential purposes.
               (C)   Licensed daycare centers, pre-school and/or nursery
schools.
               (D)   An elementary, middle or secondary school.
               (E)   A government building.
               (F)   A public park, pool or community center.
               (G)   A commercial recreational use.
               (H)   A church, chapel, temple, synagogue or faith-based place.
               (I)   Another Adult Use.
            (3)   Single Uses Only. Each Adult Use activity, as defined by this
Chapter, shall be classified as a single use. No two Adult Uses shall be
located in the same building or upon the same property, except that adult
bookstores, motion picture rental and sales and novelty sales may be permitted
in combination in the same building.
            (4)   Any related retail sales services area for an allowed Adult
Use shall meet the provisions and standards of Section [
12-3B-7 ] Accessory, enclosed retail sales.
            (5)   Signs. In order to protect children from exposure to lurid
signs and materials and in order to preserve the value of property surrounding
adult-oriented uses and business, the following sign regulations shall apply to
all Adult Uses in the City:
               (1)   All signs shall be a simple nameplate or business sign as
regulated by Section [
12-4A-11 ].
               (2)   No sign shall be freestanding, located on the roof, or
contain any flashing lights, moving elements, electronically or mechanically
changing messages, or manual reader boards.
               (3)   No sign shall contain any message or image that identifies
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined herein.
               (4)   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area
where they can be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of-way adjoining the
building or structure in which the sexually oriented business is located.
               (5)   No signs shall be placed in any window. A one-square-foot
sign may be placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to
adults only.
         d.   Prohibited with Certain Entertainments. Adult use activities
shall be prohibited at any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival,
theatrical, or other performance or exhibition presented to the general public
where minors are permitted.
         e.   Hours To Be Closed. No Adult Uses as defined in this article,
shall be open for business between the hours of 1:00 AM to 8:00 AM.
         f.   City Licenses. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to
abrogate any Adult Use operation from obtaining any and all necessary State and
City licenses for such operation.
         g.   Adult-oriented businesses or adult-oriented uses shall be
prohibited in any establishment where alcoholic beverages are licensed or
served.
         h.   Obscene Activities Prohibited. Activities classified as obscene,
as defined by Minnesota Statutes Section [617.241] are not permitted and are
strictly prohibited.
      2.   Animal Hospital (Cat Clinic, veterinary clinic, similar).
         a.   As used hereunder, the term “animal hospital or veterinary
clinic” shall be deemed to mean a facility for the diagnosis, treatment and
medical care of small animals, in which all professional services are conducted
within an enclosed building, and which includes the kenneling of animals. The
term “cat clinic” shall be deemed to mean a facility for the diagnosis,
treatment and medical care of domestic cats only.
         b.   Any Conditional Use Permit for an animal hospital, cat clinic,
veterinary clinic or similar shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1)   Noise. No noise from the operation of the facility shall be
discernible beyond the boundaries of the lot on which the use is conducted.
            (2)   Odors. Odor control shall consist of a ventilation system
designed so that no odors or organisms will spread between wards or to the
outside air. An air conditioning system may be required, with windows double
glazed with fixed sash.
            (3)   Dead Animal Storage and Disposal. An approved system shall be
provided for the storage and disposal of dead animals off the premises.
            (4)   Large Dog Facilities. Large dog facilities for indoor
exercise of such animals shall be provided. No outside pens shall be permitted.
            (5)   Screening and Landscaping. When abutting a Residential Base
Zoning District, an approved screening and landscaping plan shall be filed and
developed along the property boundary lines that abut the R District.
            (6)   Hours of Operation. Hours during which the facility will be
open to the public for the receiving and pick up of animals shall be approved
by the City Council to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
            (7)   Off Street Parking. Off street parking facilities shall be
provided, of at least the ratio required for professional offices under [
12-4A-9 ] of this title.
            (8)   Live In Facility. An animal hospital may include a live-in
facility to permit a staff member to be on the premises 24-hours per day. Such
facility shall be limited to six hundred twenty (620) square feet of floor
space.
      3.   Brewery, Cidery or Micro-Distillery. A brewery, cidery, or micro-
distillery must comply with the following standards and regulations:
         a.   A full operations plan must be submitted with the application to
describe, at a minimum, the hours of operations, number of employees, events/
tours plans, etc.
         b.   Any proposed food service must be accessory to the proposed use
as a brewery, cidery, or micro-distillery unless a separate permit (if
applicable) is obtained for restaurant services.
         c.   Sale of retail goods that support the business must be
promotional branded/directly applicable to the operations.
         d.   Any proposed brewery, cidery or micro-distillery must comply with
the standards established within the Minnesota State Statutes for operations
including on and off sale standards, licensing, etc.
         e.   Production and/or operations that exceed the micro-distillery
standard as established by the applicable Minnesota State Statute are not
permitted.
      4.   Commercial Recreation, Outdoor. The following conditions must be
met:
         a.   The outdoor commercial recreation use must be accessory to a
permitted or conditionally permitted principal use.
         b.   Outdoor recreation uses must be compatible and consistent with
the principal use.
         c.   Adequate parking, that complies with Section [
12-4A-9 ] must be provided on site. The total area used for the outdoor
commercial recreation use shall be used to determine the required number of
stalls.
         d.   A site plan must be submitted to show the site layout, type and
location of outdoor recreation uses proposed, the parking configuration, any
proposed exterior lighting locations, and proposed landscaping.
         e.   An operations plan must be submitted that includes the proposed
hours of operation.
      5.   Drive-thru/Drive-In Business.
         a.   Site Requirements.
            (1)   Access. The facility shall be located on a site having direct
access to a minor arterial street, collector or service road.
            (2)   Lot Area. Minimum lot area shall be one-half acre.
            (3)   Parking, Driveways and Drive through facilities.
               (A)   Setbacks. All portions of the drive through facilities
including, but not limited to, service windows, ordering stations and stacking
spaces, shall be set back at least 200-feet from any property zoned or guided
for residential uses; unless screened by an intervening building or located
across an arterial or major collector street.
               (B)   Parking and driveway areas shall be at least 15-feet from
any exterior property line.
               (C)   There shall be required one parking space for each
employee per shift in addition to at least one parking space for each 15 square
feet of gross floor area in the building as per [Table
12-4A-7.3 ], entry reading “drive-in and fast food restaurant”.
               (D)   Required Stacking Spaces.
                  i   Businesses with one drive through lane must provide
stacking space for at least four vehicles, and businesses with two or more
drive through lanes must provide stacking space for at least six vehicles total
as measured from the pick-up station. Stacking spaces must not interfere with
parking spaces or traffic circulation.
            (4)   Landscaping and Lighting. A landscaping and lighting plan
shall be submitted for approval.
            (5)   Screening and Fencing. If the drive through facilities abuts
a Residential Base Zoning District, a landscaping screen or fence must be
constructed to screen all elements of the drive through service area. If a
fence is installed it must be six feet (6') tall and must be constructed to a
minimum of 80-percent opacity. A fence is not required in the front yard.
            (6)   Food, goods and services are permitted within a drive through
business operation. No alcoholic beverages may be sold or served within a drive
through or drive-in business.
         (7)   Signs.
            (A)   Banners, pennants and other similar promotional devices shall
not be permitted.
         (8)   Exterior Materials of Structures. All structures shall be
finished, and the materials must be compatible and visually consistent to
create a cohesive appearance.
      6.   Hotel/Motel.
         a.   Any hotel or motel may be a maximum of 60-feet in height.
         b.   Hotel or motel operations must include 24-hour on-site management
and/or staff.
         c.   A security and operations plan must be submitted for review and
approval as part of the permit process. Any change in management or operations
shall be submitted to the City for review of compliance with the Conditional
Use Permit and any other applicable permit.
      7.   Motor Fuel Stations and Motor Fuel Station Convenience Stores.
         a.   Conditional Use Permit Required. All motor fuel stations and
motor fuel station convenience stores shall require the issuance of a
Conditional Use Permit as per Table [12-3B-1.1]
Table of Use s of this Chapter.
         b.   Compliance With State Regulations; Flammable Liquids.
            (1)   Any building used as a motor fuel station or convenience
store shall be constructed and maintained as required by the rules and
regulations relating to the State Fire Marshal governing the handling, storage
and transportation of flammable liquids.
            (2)   Every facility, whether underground or aboveground and
whether indoors or outdoors, for the handling, storage, and movement of
flammable liquids shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the State Fire Marshal.
         c.   Yards and Setbacks.
            (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in other Sections of
this Chapter, the following minimum requirements shall be observed for yards
and setbacks of motor fuel stations and convenience stores:
Table 12-3B-4.1 Motor Fuel Station Yard Setbacks
Dimension Minimum Standard
Table 12-3B-4.1 Motor Fuel Station Yard Setbacks
Dimension               Minimum Standard
Minimum lot size        1 acre
Lot width               200 feet
Front yard              60 feet
Side Yard:
   Interior          30 feet
   Adjacent to a stre60 feet
Rear Yard               50 feet
Pump setback            40 feet
 
            (2)   Each side abutting a public street shall be considered a
front yard.
            (3)   A setback of any overhead canopy structure, whether
freestanding or projecting from the station, must be setback a minimum of 20-
feet from the street right-of-way line and from any adjacent property line. If
abutting a residential use, the setback must comply with Section [
12-3B-4 .A.1].
         d.   Height Limit. Total height of any overhead canopy or weather
projection shall not exceed 20-feet.
         e.   Parking And Driveways.
            (1)   The surface parking and service areas, except for access
driveways, must be setback a minimum of 20-feet from any exterior property
line.
            (2)   Entire motor fuel station site other than that part devoted
to landscaping and structures shall be surfaced with asphalt or cement concrete
surfacing to control dust and provide adequate drainage, and such surfaces
shall be designed to fit the requirements of a minimum seven (7) ton axle load.
            (3)   All interior curbs shall be constructed within the property
lines to separate driving, parking and service areas from landscape and the
public right-of-way areas. Such curbing shall be constructed of concrete and
shall be of a six inch (6") insurmountable design.
            (4)   The minimum distance between driveways shall be 30-feet
measured along the property line.
            (5)   The minimum driveway angle shall be 45 degrees.
            (6)   All surface parking spaces must be located in the side and/or
rear of the principal structure and may not be adjacent to the street.
            (7)   A minimum of four (4) outside parking spaces plus three (3)
additional outside parking spaces for each enclosed service stall shall be
provided. One additional outside space shall be provided for each 150 square
feet of floor space devoted to retail sales in a motor fuel station convenience
store. In the case of rental of trailers, trucks and other vehicles, one
parking space shall be provided for each rental unit.
            (8)   Access and parking areas shall be designed to provide an
adequate means of access to a public alley or street. Said driveway access may
not exceed 30-feet in width at the public street right-of-way line and must be
limited to cause the least interference with the traffic movement. All public
parking areas shall have access off driveways and not directly off a public
street. All outside parking spaces shall be clearly marked on the pavement.
         f.   Storage and Sale of Vehicles and Products.
            (1)   All rental campers, trailers, or motor vehicles must be
stored within the rear and/or side yard and may not be stored or parked
adjacent to a public street.
            (2)   Service station premises shall not be used as a place of
storage for wrecked, abandoned or junked automobiles. No motor vehicle in need
of repair shall be stored on the premises of a service station for a continuous
period of more than seven (7) days, except when so stored pursuant to a police
directive.
            (3)   Open storage of inoperable motor vehicles is not permitted
for a period of more than forty eight (48) hours.
            (4)   Service station premises may be used as a place of sale or
resale, or as a place for display for sale or resale, of new or used motor
vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of 10,000 pounds or less, subject to the
following standards:
               (A)   Only businesses that provide on-site automotive repairs
will be licensed to conduct such vehicle sales;
               (B)    No vehicles shall be marked or have any visible signs
indicating “For Sale” or similar;
               (C)   Vehicles for sale under this provision will be limited to
a maximum of two (2) vehicles on the site;
               (D)   Vehicles for sale shall not be placed in any front yard
setback (including a corner front yard) of the subject property, and vehicles
must be stored in an inconspicuous area of the property as approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
            (5)   All goods for sale by the motor fuel station or convenience
store shall be displayed within the principal structure. Outside display or
sales is not permitted.
            (6)   Tires for sale may not be stored or displayed outside the
service station structure, except: a) in a display rack during business hours;
or b) in a permanent outside display container that is completely enclosable,
which must be located in conformance with the setback requirements of this
Chapter. Such display container must be closed when the station is not open for
business.
         g.   Architecture and Landscaping.
            (1)   A minimum of a 20-feet landscaped yard shall be planted and
maintained within all property lines except at driveway entrances.
            (2)   Each motor fuel station shall be architecturally designed to
be compatible with the general architectural intent of the area in which it is
located.
            (3)   For the purposes of architectural appropriateness, every side
of the motor fuel station is considered a front face.
            (4)   Wherever a motor fuel station abuts a Residential Base Zoning
District, a fence or compact evergreen hedge that is a minimum of 50 percent
opaque and a minimum of six feet (6') high must be erected and maintained along
any property line that abuts the Residential Base Zone District. A compact
evergreen hedge or fence within 15-feet of any street right-of-way line is not
required.
         h.   Lighting. All outdoor illumination shall be provided with lenses,
reflectors or shades which shall concentrate the light upon the premises to
prevent any glare or rays of light being directly visible upon adjacent street
or roadway, or adjacent property. Site lighting must comply with Section [12-
4D-3] of this title.
         i.   Debris, Trash and Waste.
            (1)   Used oil cans, discarded auto parts, discarded tires, trash,
waste materials, and similar items of debris shall not be stored on service
station premises, unless such items of debris are located in an enclosure and
are completely out of public view. Such debris shall be removed from the
premises at least once a week.
            (2)   No materials shall be burned on the premises of a service
station, except in an approved commercial incinerator complying with the
ordinances of the City. Barrels and similar containers shall not be used for
incineration.
      8.   Residential Programs for Treatment of Chemically Dependent Adults.
In reviewing a Conditional Use Permit for such a facility, the City Council
shall consider the following:
         a.   The program shall at all times hold and be entitled to a valid
license from the Minnesota Department of Human Services.
         b.   A maximum of ten (10) adults may reside at the facility.
         c.   All residents must be of the same gender.
         d.   24-hour supervision must be provided for all residents.
         e.   No person whose residency is imposed by court order is allowed to
reside at the facility.
         f.   A maximum of 30 days within one year commencing with the
resident’s first day of admission is permitted. No more than three (3) such
admissions per resident are permitted during said year.
         g.   The facility must be designed to meet all requirements regarding
utilities and on-site parking to support the operations and estimated number of
residents.
         h.   The City Council may apply any other reasonable conditions based
on the proposed operation.
         i.   The admitted residents must have the primary diagnosis of
chemical dependency.
         j.   Residential treatment facilities must occupy a building that are
not used for any other purpose.
      9.   Retail Sales and Services. Retail sales and services are any
establishments where goods or services are bought and sold, and where patrons
and customers visit the location. Examples of retail sales and services
include, but are not limited to, clothing stores, jewelry shops, shoe stores,
hair salons/barber shops, craft stores, grocery stores, etc. The level of
activity generally corresponds to the size of the store or shop and clients
and/or customers predominantly visit in person. All retail sales and service
operations must comply with the following standards.
         a.   General Standards.
            (1)   All proposed retail operations must provide adequate parking
for employees and customers. Required parking must be accommodated on-site, and
any shared parking agreements must be reviewed and approved by the City.
Required parking ratios are established in Table [
12-4A-7.3 ] of this Zoning Ordinance.
            (2)   Parking areas may be set back ten feet (10') from a front
property line or side property line abutting a street provided all Principal
Building Setbacks are met.
            (3)   Any required parking proposed to be met through a shared
parking lot, must be granted and agreed to into perpetuity and recorded by a
covenant, deed restriction, or other agreement acceptable to the City.
            (4)   Open to the Public. To be considered a Retail Sales or
Service business, a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the floor area must be open
to the public.
            (5)   Landscaping. At least 25 percent of the land area shall be
landscaped with grass, approved ground cover, shrubbery and trees. All lots
within the proposed retail sales and service complex development may be
calculated together to meet the 25 percent requirement.
            (6)   Flexibility in Site Setbacks. Building setbacks may be
reduced to 35-feet from a front property line or side property line. Building
setbacks may be reduced to 40-feet from a rear property line. Setbacks to
interior side property lines (not abutting a street) may be reduced to zero
(0).
            (7)   Samples of exterior finishes must be submitted with the Site
Plan application for review and approval by the City.
         b.   Retail and Service Uses less than 15,000 Square Feet.
            (1)   Proposed buildings and reuse of existing buildings must be
consistent with the surrounding neighborhood character.
               (A)   Building and site design should encourage a walkable,
pedestrian friendly scale using signs, awnings, planters and other streetscape
elements.
               (B)   The front facing primary façade may not include a span
longer than 25-feet without a plane break. The break may include a change in
materials, actual offset of the building plane, or other architectural detail
that visually breaks the façade.
               (C)   The main entrance or front door must be defined and
clearly articulated. Porticos, columns, awnings, signage, shopfronts, windows,
and other types of architectural detail should be incorporated consistent with
the architecture of the building.
         c.   Retail and Service Uses greater than 15,000 Square Feet,
including multi-tenant or mixed use buildings.
            (1.)   Site Requirements. The retail sales and service complex must
be located adjacent to an interstate highway and within 300-feet of an
interchange entrance or exit ramp with such highway. The site may be comprised
of more than one lot but the lot area for each retail user may not exceed one
acre.
            (2)   Mix of Uses. Any retail building must contain a minimum of
two (2) tenants or uses.
            (3)   Signage. Approved signage shall be based on the overall size
of the retail sales and service complex but flexibility may be granted to allow
more than one sign on a particular lot that is part of the retail sales and
service complex. Freestanding or pylon signs may be located at least ten feet
(10') from a front property line or side yard abutting a public street and
interior side property lines. Pylon signage may be permitted provided that
signage included in any retail sales and service complex located along I-494
shall be no higher than 915-feet above mean sea level. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-3B-5: INDUSTRIAL, TRANSPORTATION AND UTILITY USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Standards. The City has determined that the following uses are
permitted provided certain regulations and standards are met, and that proper
permitting and processes are followed. The following standards shall be
applicable to all uses identified in the Industrial, Transportation and Utility
Zoning Districts:
      1.   Any non-residential principal use shall meet the following minimum
requirements, regardless of Base Zoning District.
         a.   Principal Non-residential Use. 50-feet setback from all property
lines abutting a Residential Base Zoning District or established residential
use.
         b.   Any Use or Structure associated with the keeping of animals. 100-
feet setback from all property lines abutting a Residential Base Zoning
District or established residential use.
         c.   A Site Plan must be submitted for review and approval for any
proposed changes or modifications to the exterior of building, site or a change
in use, as established in Section [
12-5B-4 ].
   B.   Specific Industrial, Transportation & Utility Use Standards. The
following specific use standards are established for Industrial, Transportation
& Utility Uses as identified on the
Table of Uses  [12-3B-1.1] and are organized alphabetically.
      1.   Alternative Energy Systems.
         a.   Solar Energy Systems. Solar energy systems are allowed with an
appropriate permit in all Base Zoning Districts subject to the following
regulations:
            (1)   Building Permit. No solar energy system shall be erected,
altered, improved, reconstructed, maintained, or moved without obtaining a
building permit.
            (2)   Exemptions. The following systems shall be exempt from the
requirements of this Section and shall be regulated as any other building
element requiring a building permit:
               (A)   Building integrated solar energy systems.
               (B)   Passive solar energy systems.
         (3)   Roof Mounted System.
               (A)   Height. The maximum height of the system shall not exceed
the structure height requirements in the applicable Base Zoning District.
               (B)    Setbacks. The system shall comply with all building
setback requirements in the applicable Base Zoning District and shall not
extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is
mounted.
               (C)   Mounting. The system shall be flush mounted on pitched
roofs or may be bracket mounted on flat roofs. Bracket mounted collectors shall
only be permitted when a determination is provided by a licensed professional
qualified to certify that the underlying roof structure will support loading
requirements and all applicable building standards are satisfied.
               (D)   Maximum Area. The system shall not cover more than 80
percent of the roof section upon which the panels are mounted.
            (4)   Ground Mounted Systems.
               (A)   Height. The maximum height of the system shall not exceed
15-feet in height from the average natural grade at the base of the system.
               (B)   Setbacks. The system shall be set back a minimum of 15-
feet from all property boundary lines and 30-feet from all dwellings located on
adjacent lots, including any appurtenant equipment.
               (C)   Location. The systems shall be limited to rear yards in
all Base Zoning Districts.
               (D)   Maximum Area.
                  i.   Residential Districts. The system shall be limited in
size to the maximum requirement allowed for accessory structures.
                  ii.   Business and Industrial Districts. The system shall be
limited in size to a maximum of 25 percent of the rear or side yard in which
the system is located.
               (E)   Reclamation. Upon abandonment or decommissioning and
removal of the system, the disturbed area shall be restored to an appearance
that is compatible with the surrounding area.
            (5)   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened from view
to the extent possible without impacting their function. Systems located within
the business and industrial zoning districts may be required to comply with the
standards in Section [
12-4D-1 .D.7] where practical.
            (6)   Color. Solar energy systems shall use colors that are
visually compatible with the color of the roof material on which the system is
mounted or other structures.
            (7)   Glare. Reflection angles from collector surfaces must be
oriented away from neighboring windows and minimize glare toward vehicular
traffic and adjacent properties. Where necessary, the City may require
additional screening to mitigate glare.
            (8)   Utility Connection.
               (A)   All utilities must be installed underground.
               (B)   An exterior utility disconnect switch must be installed at
the electric meter serving the property.
               (C)   Solar energy systems must be grounded to protect against
natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national electrical code.
               (D)   No solar energy system shall be interconnected with a
local electrical utility company until the company has provided the appropriate
authorization to the City, in compliance with the national electrical code.
            (9)   Safety.
               (A)   Standards. Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum
standards outlined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the
American Society Of Heating, Refrigerating, And Air-Conditioning Engineers
(ASHRAE), ASTM International, British Standards Institution (BSI),
International Organization For Standardization (ISO), Underwriters Laboratories
(UL), the Solar Rating And Certification Corporation (SRCC) or other standards
as determined by the City building official.
               (B)   Certification. Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating And Certification Corporation or other body as determined by
the community development director. The City reserves the right to deny a
building permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have inadequate
certification.
            (10)   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not encroach upon any
public drainage, utility, roadway, or trail easements.
            (11)   Abandonment. Any solar energy system which remains
nonfunctional or inoperable for a continuous period of 12 months shall be
deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a public nuisance. The owners shall
remove the abandoned system, including the entire structure and transmission
equipment, at their expense after obtaining a demolition permit.
         b.   Variance. Any required standard in this Section that cannot be
met may be considered by a Variance Request, in accordance with [Section
12-5B-7 ] and considering the following criteria unique to solar energy
systems:
            (1)   That the deviation is required to allow for the improved
operation of the solar energy system;
            (2)   That the solar energy system has a net energy gain;
            (3)   That the solar energy system does not adversely affect solar
access to adjacent properties;
            (4)   That the solar energy system complies with all other
engineering, building, safety, and fire regulations; and
            (5)   That the solar energy system is found to not have adverse
impacts on the area, including the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public.
      2.   Dog Training Facility. A dog training facility is permitted as shown
in [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   Screening and Landscaping. When abutting a Base Residential
Zoning District, an approved screening and landscaping plan shall be filed and
developed along the property boundary lines.
         b.   Noise. No noise from the operation of the facility shall be
discernible beyond the boundaries of the lot on which the use is conducted.
         c.   Odors. Odor control must include a ventilation system designed so
that no odors or organisms will spread between tenant spaces, wards or to the
outside air.
         d.   Hours of Operation. The City Council must approve the hours of
operation to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses.
         e.   Restrooms. An enclosed building with restrooms to support the
facility and operations is required.
         f.   Outdoor Areas. No permanent outdoor pens are allowed with the
exception of a separate outdoor relief area. Any outdoor areas to be used for
the animal training facility, including any relief areas, shall be completely
enclosed with a fence that is at least four feet (4') in height, or all dogs
utilizing an outdoor area shall be leashed at all times. No animals shall
remain unattended in outdoor areas.
         g.   Waste Removal. Outdoor areas shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times. Solid waste material shall be removed daily
and disposed of in dedicated waste containers and in a sanitary manner.
         h.   Boarding. The overnight boarding of dogs is not to be permitted.
      3.   Essential Services.
         a.   Permitted Essential Services. Permitted essential services shall
be a permitted use as authorized and regulated by State law and ordinances of
the City in all Base Zoning Districts, provided they do not fall within
Subsection [2] of this Section.
         b.   Essential Services Requiring Conditional Use Permit. The
following essential services, and those deemed similar by the City Council,
shall require a Conditional Use Permit within any Base Zoning District. Prior
to granting a permit, it shall be found that the architectural design of
service structure or building is compatible to the neighborhood in which it is
to be located:
            (1)   Those listed as a Conditional Use within the Base Zoning
District in which they are to be located.
            (2)   Those in which 75 percent of the services provided or
produced are not provided for, used, consumed or required within the City.
            (3)   Those higher than the maximum height as set forth in the Base
Zoning District in which it is to be located when increased by 50 percent.
            (4)   Those in which the architectural design and/or use would not
normally be compatible to the neighborhood and/or Base Zoning District in which
it is to be located.
      4.   Outdoor Storage and Display of Materials and Equipment Accessory to
Landscaping and Building Design and Construction. Outdoor storage and display
of materials and equipment accessory to landscaping and building design and
construction is permitted as shown on [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   The site must be occupied by a principal building containing a
minimum of 15,000 square feet.
         b.   All storage and display is located in the rear or side yard of
the property and behind the front building line of the principal building, and
may not be located in a yard that abuts any local public street.
         c.   No storage and display shall be located on any parcel that is
within one thousand 1,500' from any Residential Base Zoning District, measured
from the closest point of the lot lines.
         d.   The storage and display area shall not be open to retail sales,
and shall be utilized only for stock and supply for clients of the landscaping
or building design and construction business.
         e.   All storage and display must be located on paved surfaces that
are properly maintained to prevent deterioration.
         f.   The storage and display area may occupy a maximum of 60 percent
of the total lot area.
         g.   The storage and display area must be setback a minimum of ten
feet (10') from all lot lines.
         h.   The storage and display area must be fully screened from
surrounding property by fencing, walls, and/or landscaping.
         i.   All storage and display must be covered by three (3) sided,
roofed structures, with the exception of landscape plant materials and trucks
or equipment as shown on a specific and detailed Site Plan.
         j.   Trucks and equipment kept within the storage and display area
shall be located within designated striped parking spaces and shall not be used
for storage.
         k.   Fencing utilized for screening purposes must be constructed of
wood or other materials as approved by the City Council.
         l.   Circulation and water service on the property shall meet the
requirements of the City’s Fire Chief for access and fire protection.
         m.   Covered structures used to protect stored materials or equipment
must comply with the following requirements:
            (1)   Structures greater than eight feet (8') in height must be
designed and constructed of materials consistent with the requirements of
[Section
12-4D-1 ].
            (2)   Structures of eight feet (8') in height or less may be
constructed of alternative materials as approved by the City Council, provided
such structures are not visible from surrounding property or public streets.
            (3)   All structures shall comply with applicable Building and Fire
Codes.
      5.   Personal Self Storage Facility. Personal self-storage facilities are
permitted as shown on [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   All storage shall be inside the building. Exterior storage of
personal vehicles, recreational vehicles, trailers, and equipment is strictly
prohibited.
         b.   The storage facility shall have a security system adequate to
limit access to persons renting at the facility.
         c.   Facility may not be located closer than one-quarter (1/4) mile
from any residential use and/or Base Residential Zoning District.
         d.   All drive aisles and parking surfaces must be constructed with
curb and gutter, with asphalt or concrete.
         e.   A maximum of three (3) overhead doors or bays to be used for
entering/exiting the facility.
         f.   Access to any fenced-in exterior area shall be available to
emergency responders in a manner acceptable to the Fire Marshal.
         g.   Common parking space available to all visitors must be provided
at a minimum ratio of one space per 6,000 square feet of storage area.
      6.   Warehousing and Distribution, Abutting a Residential Use.
Warehousing and distribution, abutting a Base Residential Zoning District or
established residential use is permitted as shown on [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   A fence along the property boundary line abutting the residential
use is constructed, in compliance with [Section
12-4A-10 .D].
         b.   Loading areas shall not be serviced by loading docks, unless
completely screened from the ground level view from abutting properties and
streets, except at access points, in compliance with Subsection [
12-4A-9 .G] of this Chapter.
         c.   Truck traffic shall not impede vehicle circulation, as determined
by the Public Works Director.
         d.   Operations shall not include retail sales, unless compliant with
this Section concerning accessory, enclosed retail sales.
         e.   Any exterior improvements to the building and/or property are
compliant with [Section
12-4D-1 ].
         f.   The proposed use shall be compliant with all applicable
performance standards in [Section
12-3B-5 ] of this Chapter.
         g.   Hours of operation for delivery/distribution are limited to seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o’clock (8:00) P.M.
         h.   Additional conditions that mitigate potential negative impacts
may be included, as determined by the City Council.
      7.   Wireless Antennas, Towers, and Accessory Structures. Wireless
telecommunication towers, antennas, and accessory structures, including, but
not limited to, cellular, Personal Communications Service (PCS) technology, and
wireless internet, are a Conditional Use in all Base Zoning Districts, subject
to the requirements and exceptions of this Section.
         a.   Purpose. To protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the community while accommodating the communication needs of residents and
businesses, the City Council finds that this Section is necessary to:
            (1)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties and personal
injury from tower collapse through structural standards and setback
requirements.
            (2)   Protect the aesthetic qualities of the community by requiring
tower and antenna equipment to be designed in a manner to blend in with the
surroundings and complement existing structures.
            (3)   Maximize the use of existing and approved freestanding
antenna towers, buildings, and existing light poles for new wireless
telecommunication antennas.
            (4)   Minimize the number of freestanding antenna towers needed to
serve the community by requiring co-location.
            (5)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication
services to the residents and businesses of the City.
            (6)   Ensure that a competitive and broad range of
telecommunications services and high-quality telecommunications infrastructure
are provided to serve the community, as well as serve an important and
effective part of the city’s emergency response network.
            (7)   Place telecommunication facilities in suitable locations,
with residential locations being a last resort.
         b.   Definitions. The defined terms identified in this subsection are
provided in Chapter [8] of this Zoning Ordinance.
         c.   Building Mounted Antennas.
            (1)   Permitted Buildings. Antennas may be mounted on institutional
buildings (churches, schools, businesses, etc.) or multiple-family dwellings
two (2) stories or higher. Wireless telecommunications antennas are not
permitted on attached or detached single-family homes or attached single-family
(townhome) homes.
            (2)   Flush Mounting; Color.
               (A)   Building mounted antennas must be flush mounted to the
sides of the building and painted the color of the building exterior unless the
applicant can demonstrate to the City Council that protrusion above the
roofline is necessary for communication effectiveness.
               (B)   In no case shall building mounted antennas or any
attachment thereto be allowed to protrude more than 15-feet above the roofline
of the building.
               (C)   Agreement to Mount on City Property. If both the applicant
and the City consent to mounting the antennas on the City’s water tower or
other municipal building, a developer’s agreement may be necessary at the
discretion of the City in addition to a Conditional Use Permit.
         d.   Freestanding Antennas and Towers.
            (1)   Location limitations. The location of any antenna support
structure on a particular parcel of land shall be located to have the least
impact possible on adjoining properties, and so that any negative impacts of
the antenna support structure shall be confined as much as possible to the
property on which the antenna support structure is located.
            (2)   Height. The maximum height of a freestanding antenna tower is
150-feet, as measured from the ground to the highest point of any portion of
the tower, antenna, or any other component attached thereto, or the distance
between the base of the antenna tower and the nearest setback line, whichever
is least.
            (3)   Setbacks. All freestanding antenna towers and accessory
structures must adhere to all appropriate setbacks for the Base Zoning District
of the property on which the structure is located.
               (A)   Antenna support structures between 75-feet and 150-feet
tall shall not be constructed within 200 feet of any residential principal
structure.
               (B)   Notwithstanding (A), if an antenna support structure is
located on the same parcel of land as a residential structure, the setback to
that residential structure may be equal to the height of the antenna support
structure plus 15 feet.
         e.   Preferences for antenna and support structure locations. When
selecting sites for the construction of new antenna support structures and/or
for the placement of new antennas, the following preferences shall be followed:
            (1)   Preferred Land Use Areas.
               (A)   Property in the B-1, B-2 or Industrial Zoning District.
               (B)   Athletic complexes, municipal property or Public/Semi-
Public uses.
               (C)   Parking lots, if the monopole replicates, incorporates or
substantially blends in with the overall lighting standards of the lot.
               (D)   Within the easement of a high-power overhead transmission
line, or within 50 feet of the transmission line easement on the same side of
the road.
            (2)   Alternate land use areas.
               (A)   Public parks or open spaces.
               (B)   Golf courses.
               (C)   Residential area.
            (3)   Preferred Support Structures.
               (A)   Water towers
               (B)   Co-location on existing antenna support structures.
               (C)   Church steeples.
               (D)   Sides of buildings over two stories high.
               (E)   Existing power, lighting or phone poles.
            (4)   Prohibitions.
               (A)   No new support structures shall be approved at any
location other than a Preferred Land Use Area, unless the applicant shows to
the reasonable satisfaction of the city that such locations are not feasible
from an engineering standpoint.
               (B)   No new support structures shall be approved for
construction, unless the applicant shows to the reasonable satisfaction of the
city that a preferred support structure is not feasibly available for use from
an engineering standpoint.
         f.   Aesthetics.
            (1)   Design. All freestanding antenna towers shall be of a
monopole type design. The use of guyed towers is prohibited.
            (2)   Color.
               (A)   Those portions of all freestanding antenna towers and all
antennas which protrude into the air shall be painted eggshell.
               (B)   Those portions of all antennas that are flush mounted to
the sides of buildings shall be painted to match the exterior of the building.
            (3)   Screening. All accessory buildings to all freestanding towers
shall be screened from public view by a landscape plan according to the
landscape standards of the applicable Base Zoning District and as described in
[Section
12-4A-5 ] of this article subject to City Council review.
            (4)   Advertising. Advertising of any kind is not permitted on any
freestanding antenna tower, antenna, or accessory structure.
            (5)   Lighting. Artificial lighting of any kind is not permitted on
any freestanding antenna tower, antenna, or accessory structure unless such
lighting is required by the FCC, the FAA, or another federal or state
regulatory body. If such a requirement exists, only the minimum amount of
lighting required is allowed.
            (6)   Prohibitions. Structures, functions, uses or activities that
are not found by the City to be specifically necessary for the proper
functioning of the antennas are prohibited on any antenna or tower without
express permission from the City and the City grants a waiver to this
requirement.
         g.   Safety.
            (1)   Report of Compliance. For a freestanding antenna tower, the
applicant must provide a report from a licensed qualified professional
structural engineer certifying that the tower will meet or exceed current EIA/
TIA-222-E standards including, but not limited to, standards for withstanding
meteorological conditions such as high winds and radial ice.
            (2)   Compliance with Building and Electrical Codes. All antennas,
freestanding antenna towers, and accessory structures shall conform to all
building and electrical codes.
            (3)   Fencing. The applicant may be required by the City Council to
erect a security fence around any freestanding antenna.
         h.   Accessory Structures for Antennas.
            (1)   Location and General Requirements. Accessory buildings to
antennas or freestanding antenna towers must comply with all applicable
setbacks from all property lines and must otherwise conform to all requirements
for accessory buildings within the description of the Base Zoning District on
which the structure is located.
               i.   Architecture.
            (1)   Accessory structures and equipment buildings shall be
designed to be architecturally compatible with any principal structures on the
site or, in the absence of such structures, with their immediate surroundings
in an aesthetically pleasing manner.
            (2)   Accessory structures must be finished on all sides.
            (3)   The Planning Commission must review, and the City Council
shall approve, the design of any accessory structures and equipment buildings.
   C.   Submission Requirements.
      1.   Initial Application Requirements. In addition to the information
required for a Conditional Use Permit or Administrative Permit, the following
additional information must be supplied by the Applicant and a qualified,
licensed registered professional engineer:
         a.   Description of the tower height and design, including a cross-
section, elevation and site elevation.
         b.   Documentation of the height above grade for all potential
mounting positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation distances
between antennas.
         c.   Description of the tower’s capacity, including the number and
type of antennas that it can accommodate.
         d.   Coverage Capacity Analysis. Coverage map and or analysis that
demonstrates that no other support structures, or if applicable Preferred Land
Use Areas, are available to meet coverage demand. The applicant shall
demonstrate, by providing a coverage/interference analysis and capacity
analysis, that the location and height of any freestanding antenna tower or
antenna as proposed is necessary to meet the communication, frequency reuse and
spacing needs of the communication services system, and to provide adequate
coverage and capacity to areas that cannot be adequately served by locating the
towers in a less restrictive district or on an existing structure, freestanding
antenna tower or antenna including such in neighboring municipalities.
         e.   Area Map. All applications for either a freestanding antenna, a
freestanding antenna tower, or a building mounted antenna shall be accompanied
by a map of all existing towers and antennas of the same provider within a two
(2) mile radius of the proposed site and all future planned antennas of the
same provider for the next five (5) years within a two (2) mile radius of the
proposed site.
         f.   Inclusion of the engineer’s stamp and registration number.
         g.   The city, at its reasonable discretion, may require visual impact
demonstrations including mock-ups and/or phot simulations that provide an
accurate visual depiction of the tower.
         h.   A written description of the type of technology each company/
carrier will provide to its customers.
         i.   A listing of all existing, existing to be upgraded or replaced,
and proposed communication sites within the city and within five miles of the
city for these services.
         j.   An electronic, to-scale copy of a map of the city showing the
five-year plan for communication sites, or if individual properties are not
known, the geographic service areas of the communication sites. Any existing
tower locations must be clearly identified.
   D.   Additional Requirements.
      1.   Abandoned Structures.
         a.   Removal Required. Unused or obsolete freestanding antenna towers,
antennas, structures or apparatus must be removed within six (6) months of when
the operation ceases.
         b.   Bond. A successful applicant shall provide an abandonment bond to
the City equal to one and a half (1 1/2) times the current cost of removal and
disposal of all antennas and accompanying apparatus as estimated by a
consultant selected by the City and paid for by the applicant, which bond shall
be used by the City to remove the antennas and apparatus should they become
unused or obsolete and the applicant or its successors or assigns become
disbarred or otherwise fail to remove said antennas and apparatus.
      2.   No new antenna support structures shall be constructed if it is
feasible to locate the proposed new antenna on existing support structures.
Feasibility shall be determined according to generally accepted engineering
principles. If a new antenna support structure is to be constructed, it shall
be designed structurally to accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and
comparable antennas for at least two additional users if the antenna support
structure is 75-feet or more. Any antenna support structure must also be
designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to
accept antennas mounted at different heights. Other users shall include, but
not be limited to, other cellular communication companies, personal
communication systems companies, local police, fire and ambulance companies.
      3.   Other Required Licenses. The applicant must submit proof of any
applicable federal, state, or local licenses to the City prior to receiving a
building permit.
      1.   Interference with Public Safety Systems Prohibited. The applicant
must agree in writing to support, participate in and refrain from interfering
with public warning systems and public safety communications and other radio
frequencies as may be regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
      4.   Compliance with FCC Regulations; Noninterference Required. All new
or existing telecommunications service and equipment shall meet or exceed all
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) standards and regulations and shall not
interfere with any other communications, computers, laboratory equipment or
manufacturing equipment, including television and other home electronics. The
applicant shall provide to the City a report from a qualified professional
engineer guaranteeing noninterference and a copy of the FCC approval of the
antenna in regard to noninterference.
         a.   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). In the event that the FCC
or other agency or other governmental body having jurisdiction requires the
applicant to submit an Environmental Impact Statement or similar document, a
copy of this document shall be submitted to the City.
         b.   Nonconformances. Existing nonconforming freestanding antenna
towers, antennas, or accessory structures shall be allowed to continue
operation unless use of the freestanding antenna tower, antenna, or accessory
structure for its intended purpose ceases for a continuous period of six (6)
months, in which case, resumption of use shall require a reapplication for a
Conditional Use Permit.
         c.   Costs to Applicant. All costs of an application, including, but
not limited to, those incurred by City staff time and resources, engineering
studies by consultants, and other data as may be required by the City staff,
the planning commission or the City council shall be borne in full by the
applicant.
         d.   Variances. The City Council may at its discretion waive any or
all of the requirements of this Section in order to approve a unique “stealth”
or “camouflage” design of freestanding antennas or poles or building mounted
antennas if, in the opinion of the City Council, said apparatus will be
sufficiently disguised as trees, light poles, church steeples, or other similar
objects.
         e.   Prohibitions. Use of mobile cell/PCS sites or COWs (cell sites on
wheels), or any other temporary antenna apparatus is strictly prohibited except
in the case of emergency equipment used for public safety purposes for a
limited time during or in the immediate aftermath of a natural disaster or
other emergency.
         f.   Administrative Procedures and Exemptions. The Zoning
Administrator will review Conditional Use Permit requests for improvements to
existing wireless antenna facilities and follow the process as established in
Chapter [5] of this Zoning Ordinance. The City may impose such conditions and
require such guarantees deemed reasonable and necessary to protect the public
interest and ensure compliance with the standards and purposes of this code.
         g.   Exceptions for Administrative Permit. An Administrative Permit
may replace the need for Conditional Use Permit when all of the following
conditions exist:
            (1)   Requirements in of this Section [D] are met and submitted for
review.
            (2)   Request seeks to adjust, maintain, repair, or replace
existing antennas and accessory structures or the elements of an antenna array,
including remote radio units (RRU), affixed to a tower or antenna.
            (3)   No increase in the total number of the existing antennas.
            (4)   No increase in the total height of the existing antenna
structure. Height of individual building mounted antennas may be increased in
compliance with [Section
12-3B-5  B.7.c.(2)(B)] of this Section.
            (5)   No external modification or expansion of the existing
accessory structure.
            (6)   Existing wireless antenna facility, including the wireless
antenna structure and accessory structure, is compliant with all conditions
contained in the original Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-3B-6: PUBLIC, SEMI-PUBLIC USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Standards. The City has determined that the following uses are
permitted on land within the Public Semi-Public Overlay District provided
certain regulations and standards are met, and that proper permitting and
processes are followed. The following standards shall be applicable to all uses
identified in the Public Semi-Public Overlay Zoning District:
      1.   Any non-residential principal use shall meet the following minimum
requirements, regardless of Base Zoning District.
         a.   Non-residential principal use. 50-feet setback from all property
lines abutting a Residential Base Zoning District or established residential
use.
         b.   A Site Plan must be submitted for review and approval as
established in [Section
12-5B-4 ].
   B.   Specific Public, Semi-Public Use Standards. The following specific use
standards are established for Public, Semi-Public Uses as identified on the
Table of Uses  [12-3B-1.1], and are organized alphabetically.
      1.   Cultural Centers, Places of Assembly, or similar.
         a.   Lot Size. Minimum of 1.0 Acres
         b.   Any use that includes a dedicated space for assembly or gathering
of people that comprises 50 percent of the total floor area or more shall be
subject to these requirements.
         c.   A Cultural Center, Place of Assembly, or similar may be located
on a site with another compatible use such as a Place of Worship. In the case
where more than one use is present the most restrictive permitting process, and
regulations, shall be followed.
         d.   The required parking shall be determined based on the total
occupancy of the building and must be provided on site.
         e.   All events and/or gatherings must be held indoors, unless outdoor
gatherings are expressly allowed by Conditional Use Permit.
      2.   Elementary, Middle, and Secondary Schools (public and private).
         a.   Any Accessory Structures or Accessory Buildings that support the
principal school use must be setback a minimum of 100-feet from any property
line that abuts a Residential Base Zoning District or established residential
use.
      3.   Government Buildings and Structures.
         a.   A Government Building or Structure means a principal building or
structure owned or operated by a regulatory agency other than the City of
Mendota Heights.
         b.   The use of a government building or structure must be for the
purpose of benefiting the public including, but not limited to, a service
center, DMV, maintenance building, administrative building, or similar.
         c.   Governmental Buildings or Structures containing a residential use
are not permitted unless specifically permitted within the Base Zoning District
of the subject property. Any residential use must comply with the Base Zoning
District Standards and the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   Municipal Buildings and Structures.
         a.   A Municipal Building or Structure means a principal building or
structure owned or operated by the City of Mendota Heights.
         b.   The use of the Municipal Building or Structure must be for the
purpose of benefiting the public including, but not limited to, a city hall,
service center, public works facility or use, administrative building, or
similar.
         c.   Any Municipal Buildings or Structures containing a residential
use must comply with the Base Zoning District Standards and the adopted
Comprehensive Plan.
      5.   Off Leash Dog Area. An off-leash dog area is permitted as shown in [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   The minimum parcel size shall be five (5) acres, which may
include a combination of adjoining lots under control by the City.
         b.   No structures shall be located on the lot(s).
         c.   Proper fencing shall be installed around the entire off leash
area with height and materials approved by the City Council.
         d.   Hours of operation shall be limited to between seven o’clock (7:
00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
         e.   Fixed lighting structures are prohibited.
         f.   All dogs must be appropriately licensed.
         g.   All dogs must be kept on leash at all times except within the
designated off leash area.
         h.   No dog(s) shall be left unattended within the off leash area.
         i.   Dog waste receptacles shall be provided and all dog waste must be
properly disposed of on site by the user or removed immediately.
      6.   Outdoor Recreational Facilities, including Athletic Fields.
         a.   Any outdoor field or recreational facility that is intended to be
lit with overhead light fixtures must be setback a minimum of 100-feet from any
property line that abuts a Residential Base Zoning District or established
residential use. The light fixtures associated with the field or recreational
facilities must comply with the City’s footcandle standards established in
Section [
12-4D-3 ].
         b.   Any outdoor field or recreational facility not intended to be lit
with fixtures must comply with the principal building setbacks established in
the Base Zoning District.
      7.   Private Nursery and/or Daycare Schools.
         a.   The minimum lot size shall be at least one (1) acre.
         b.   The nursery and/or daycare school is registered with the State
and meets the standards for all schools specified by the State.
      8.   Religious Institutions and Places of Worship.
         a.   Any religious institutions and places of religious worship,
including those related structures located on the same site which are an
integral part of the principal use, convent or homes for persons related to a
religious function on the same site are permitted to have a maximum of ten (10)
persons residing on the site. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-3B-7: ACCESSORY USE SPECIFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   General Standards. All uses explicitly defined as an Accessory Use must
be accessory to a Principal Use on the same property or lot. The Accessory Uses
are only permitted provided that the Principal Use is identified as permitted
or conditionally permitted on the Table of Uses.
   B.   Specific Accessory Use Standards. The following specific use standards
are established for Accessory Uses as identified on the
Table of Uses [12-3B-1.1]  and are organized alphabetically.
      1.   Accessory Buildings and Structures to Business, Commercial,
Industrial and Public/Semi-Public Uses. All Accessory Buildings and Structures
that exceed the standards established in Chapter 2 must comply with the
following:
         a.   A Conditional Use Permit must be obtained.
         b.   The Accessory Structure or Building must comply with the required
setbacks as stated within this Chapter for non-residential uses.
         c.   The Accessory Structure or Building must be designed to be
compatible with the Principal Building and/or Principal Use of the site.
         d.   The Accessory Structure or Building may not exceed 25-feet in
height but may exceed the height of a Principal Building if permitted by the
Conditional Use Permit.
      2.   Accessory, Enclosed Retail Sales. Enclosed retail sales as an
accessory use are permitted as shown in
[12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided that:
         a.   Accessory Use. The retail sales portion of the business shall be
an accessory use to the existing permitted or conditionally permitted use in
the I district.
         b.   Site Requirements. The retail sales portion of the business shall
be conducted within the same building as the principal use.
         c.   Building requirements. The retail sales portion of the business
shall not constitute more than five percent (5%) of the gross floor area of the
principal use.
         d.   Building Design. The building design shall be in compliance with
the standards established for Industrial buildings in [Section
12-4D-1 D].
         e.   Parking. adequate off street parking and off street loading shall
be provided and shall be in compliance with the provisions of Section [
12-4A-9 ].
         f.   Signage. All signage shall be in compliance with the provisions
of Section [
12-4A-11 ] of this Chapter. Separate wall signage may be considered at the
retail entrance, but not separate freestanding signage shall be considered.
         g.   Landscaping. All landscaping shall be in compliance with Section
[
12-4A-5 ].
         h.   Screening. All screening shall be in compliance with Section [
12-4D-2 ].
         i.   Hours of Operation. The hours of operation of the retail sales
portion of the business shall be limited from eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to
seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. on weekdays and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. to five
o’clock (5:00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays.
      3.   Home Occupation.
         a.   A home occupation means any gainful occupation or profession
engaged in by an occupant only of a dwelling unit which is a use that is
clearly incidental to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes
when conducted on the premises. The following criteria must be met, or the
proposed use must be established as a conditional use in the zoning district in
which the property is located, and the proper permit obtained:
            (1)   No persons other than the residents of the dwelling unit that
reside on the property may be engaged in the Home Occupation; and
            (2)   No more than 30 percent of the floor area of the principal
dwelling unit may be used for the conduct of the Home Occupation; and
            (3)   The Home Occupation may not visible from the street and no
changes to the principal building that distinguish the property as a business
are permitted;
            (4)   No traffic shall be generated by the Home Occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected to a residence in a residential
neighborhood.
            (5)   The Home Occupation may not include the retail sales of
products produced off the site and sold from principal or accessory building.
            (6)   Any visitor or client parking must be accommodated on site
and on an improved residential driveway.
            (7)   No equipment, activity, or process shall be used in a Home
Occupation that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, or odors detectable to
the normal senses off the lot.
            (8)   No accessory building shall be used for such Home Occupation.
            (9)   No outside storage is permitted as a part of any Home
Occupation.
      4.   Keeping of Bees as an Accessory Use.
         a.   Minimum lot size. 50 Acres
         b.   A maximum of ten (hives) may be maintained, and all buildings,
hives, apiaries, or other areas for colonies of bees shall not be located no
closer than 100-feet from any property line.
      5.   Private Swimming Pool, tennis courts, or similar recreation
facilities serving Multi-Family Buildings.
         a.   Swimming Pool. Private swimming pools intended for and used
solely by the occupants of the property on which they are located and their
guests are permitted as shown in [
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses ], provided:
            (1)   The water surface is located a minimum of 50 feet from any
lot line.
            (2)   That the pump and filter is installed a minimum of 40 feet
from any lot line.
            (3)   That the pool area is fenced to prevent uncontrolled access
from the street or adjacent property.
         b.   Tennis Courts, or similar outdoor recreational facilities must
comply with the following standards:
            (1)   Minimum of 50-foot setback from all property lines.
            (2)   Comply with all outdoor lighting standards and requirements
identified in section [
12-4D-3 ].
      6.   Video/Electronic Display Scoreboard as an Accessory Use. Any video/
electronic display scoreboard for an athletic field on the campus of a school
shall comply with the following:
         a.   The scoreboard shall only be used for organized events at an
athletic field, or similar outdoor facility, in which the permitted user is
participating in or hosting.
         b.   The scoreboard shall be equipped with industry standard security
and brightness control features.
         c.   The video/electronic display portion(s) shall not face a
residential neighborhood, not including the back of the scoreboard, unless
screened or otherwise obscured from view.
         d.   The scoreboard shall not exceed 800 square feet in area per
surface and the video/electronic display portion(s) shall not exceed 600 square
feet of the total area.
         e.   The scoreboard shall not exceed 45-feet in height from the
natural grade at the base of the scoreboard.
         f.   Organizers sponsoring the scoreboard may include identifying
information within the area allowed for the scoreboard in a combined amount not
to exceed 30 percent of the total scoreboard area.
         g.   No permitted use shall have more than one scoreboard structure
equipped with video/electronic display(s) and no video/electronic display(s) or
signage shall be affixed to the back of the scoreboard.
         h.   The hours of operation for the video/electronic display portion
(s) of the scoreboard shall be limited to between eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. with an allowance of up to 30 minutes before or
after a permitted event. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING, CHARACTER AND DESIGN STANDARDS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4A-1: General Character And Form Of Property
12-4A-2: Utilities and Services
12-4A-3: Yards And Open Space
12-4A-4: Wetland Requirements
12-4A-5: Landscaping Requirements
12-4A-6: Impervious Surface Requirements
12-4A-7: Structure Height Standards
12-4A-8: Accessory Structure Standards
12-4A-9: Off-Street Parking and Loading
12-4A-10: Fences
12-4A-11: Signs
12-4A-1: GENERAL CHARACTER AND FORM OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Purpose. Each Base and Overlay Zoning District has a distinct physical
form that establishes the character of an area or neighborhood. The intent of
the regulations contained within this Chapter is to support and reinforce the
physical form of Property to support the City’s neighborhoods as described
herein, and to ensure that development or redevelopment is compatible with
adjacent and surrounding properties.
   B.   Applicability. The standards contained within this Chapter shall apply
to all Base and Overlay Zoning Districts, unless otherwise specified.
   C.   Physical Form of Property. For purposes of this Chapter, the physical
form of Property is described as the following:
      1.   Building mass and volume of structure. The mass, or form, is
generally described as the area contained by height, width and depth of a
structure or building.
      2.   Relationship or setback of Principal Building and/or Accessory
Building with the public street. The relationship of a Principal and/or
Accessory Building with the public street is generally described as including
the front yard setback of the Building from the right-of-way, the relative
position of Accessory Buildings or Structures, the presence of trails or
sidewalks, and/or the presence of front stoops or porches, etc.
      3.   Accessory Building Location and Size. The location of an Accessory
Building, whether it is attached or detached, the driveway access location and
the size.
      4.   Environmental Features. The presence of vegetation, significant
bluffs, waterways, ponds, wetlands, and other natural resource features. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-2: UTILITIES AND SERVICES:
   A.   Purpose. The City acknowledges the importance of properly managing and
maintaining its utilities and public infrastructure. This Section generally
describes required utilities and references other regulations that are
implemented by either the City or other agencies with respect to permitting and
requirements.
   B.   Sanitary Sewer and Water Systems.
      1.   Use of Municipal Public Systems Required. All new development in the
City must be served by the municipal sanitary sewer and water distribution
systems.
         a.   Exceptions. The Public Works Director may grant special or
temporary permission for a private sanitary sewer system and/or private water
system if the property is not served by the municipal sanitary sewer system
and/or water distribution system. The Public Works Director must determine that
the proposed private system or systems will prevent pollution to existing
groundwater resources, will not result in a hazard to health, and that the
design and location of the proposed system will not adversely affect the
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the City and adjacent
communities.
      2.   Private Sanitary Sewer Systems. There are some existing private or
individual septic systems in the City. Plans for and installation, maintenance
or replacement of existing private on-site sanitary sewer systems must comply
with [Section
10-3-3 ] of this Code and Dakota County [Ordinance 113].
   C.   Drainage.
      1.   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that
results in water runoff causing flooding or erosion on adjacent properties.
Such runoff must be properly channeled into a storm drain, water course,
ponding area or other suitable facility as set forth in the soil protection
ordinance and wetland system ordinance. In no event shall drainage be allowed
into a sanitary sewer. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-3: YARDS AND OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Purpose. This Section regulates yard setbacks and required open space
in the City. This Section applies to all Base Zoning Districts, except where
explicitly stated otherwise.
   B.   Minimum Yards and Open Spaces. No yard or other required open space
shall be reduced in area or dimension to make such yard or open space less than
the minimum required by this Chapter. If the existing yard or open space is
less than the minimum required, it must not be further reduced.
   C.   Allowed Encroachments. The following encroachments on yard, open space
and setback requirements are permitted:
      1.   All Yards:
         a.   Belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental
features, cornices, eaves and the like, provided they do not extend more than
one and one-half feet (1 ½’) into a yard.
         b.   Yard lights and nameplate signs for one- and two-family dwellings
in the RE, R-1, and R-2 Zoning Districts may be located up to five feet (5')
from the front lot line.
         c.   Uncovered and/or open terraces, steps, porches, decks, egress
windows, accessibility ramps, stoops or similar structures that do not extend
above the height of the ground floor level of the principal building and do not
extend more than five feet (5') in into the front yard or rear yard; or more
than three feet (3') into a side yard.
         d.   Lights for illuminating parking areas and loading areas for yards
for safety and security purposes.
      2.   Front Yard:
         a.   Covered and/or enclosed entryways (porches, decks, stoops or
similar structures) that extend into the front yard setback are permitted after
Site Plan review and approval by the Zoning Administrator, subject to
compliance with the following conditions:
            (1)   The covered and/or enclosed entryway may not extend into the
front or side yard more than five feet (5').
            (2)   The covered and/or enclosed entryway shall be a maximum of 50
square feet.
            (3)   The covered and/or enclosed entryway may not extend above one
(1) story.
      3.   Side or rear yards only: Bays or building extensions that extend
into the side or rear yard shall meet the following standards:
         a.   May not exceed a width of two feet (3').
         b.   Contain a maximum area of 20 square feet.
   D.   Front Yard Requirements.
      1.   All structures and buildings shall meet the front yard requirements
as established by the Base or Overlay Zoning District as established in
Chapter 2  of this Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   Infill Determination. Whenever buildings have been built on one side
of the street between two (2) intersections, no building or structure may be
erected to extend closer toward the street than the average of the required
setback as established in the applicable Zoning District and must be setback at
a minimum the average setback of the Principal Building on the adjoining lots.
See [Figure 12-4A-3.1] of this Section.
         a.   For any infill lot, the maximum front yard setback of a new
Principal Building shall be established by adding 10-feet to the calculated
Minimum Setback established by Figure [12-4A-3.1].
   Figure 12-4A-3.1 Front Yard Setback Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2659.png]
      3.    In the case of a building to be erected or extended on a corner
lot, the minimum front yard depth shall be increased by an amount not less than
one-half (1/2) the depth in excess of 30-feet of the front yard of the nearest
building. See [Figure 12-4A-3.2] of this Section.
   Figure 12-4A-3.2 Front Yard Setback Requirements - Corner Lot
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2661.png]
      4.   Subsections [D2 and D3] of this Section shall not be applied to
require a front yard in excess of one-third (1/3) of the average depth of the
lot. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-4: WETLAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The requirements established herein are intended to support
the regulations and requirements established in Title 15. Environmental
Standards of the City Code and to comply with the State of Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Act (WCA) rules. The City will:
      1.   Reference the City’s wetland inventory and the National Wetland
Inventory, to determine whether a wetland may be present on a property that is
the subject of a Land Use Development Application.
      2.   Coordinate wetland requirements with the Floodplain and Shoreland
Protection regulations as established in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
      3.   Determine whether a wetland replacement or mitigation plan is
required based on proposed improvements to a structure or lot.
   B.   Identification and Delineation of Wetlands.
      1.   This Section shall apply to all land containing wetlands and land
within the buffer strip or setback areas as required herein. Wetlands shall be
subject to the requirements of this Section and to the requirements established
in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
      2.   Wetlands shall be located and identified according to the standards
established in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
      3.   Only that portion of the land within the boundaries of the wetland
and its required buffer or setback shall be subject to the requirements of this
Section.
   C.   General Standards. The following standards apply to all lands
containing or abutting a wetland:
      1.   The standards contained in this Section shall be applicable if any
portion of a wetland or a required buffer area are located on a lot or parcel,
regardless of if the delineated wetland, or a portion thereof, is on the
property.
      2.   Any septic or soil absorption area must be setback a minimum of 75-
feet from the delineated wetland boundary.
      3.   The lowest ground floor elevation must be a minimum of two feet (2')
above the 100-year flood elevation, or a minimum of three feet (3') above the
Ordinary High Water Mark of public waters, as regulated by Title 15.
Environmental Standards.
      4.   Structures, such as a bridge, intended to provide access across a
wetland are prohibited unless a permit is obtained in conformance with State
Regulations.
      5.   The MPCA’s Best Management Practices and Minnesota Storm Water
Manual, as applicable, shall be followed to avoid erosion and sedimentation
during any construction process that may impact a wetland or its buffer area.
      6.   Before the City issues a Building Permit for a lot with a required
wetland buffer area, the lot owner shall clearly mark the buffer boundary with
flags or other physical monumentation to denote the area that will be protected
and untouched during the construction process.
      7.   Wetlands and any required buffer area must be kept free of any
impervious surface and of any structures and features including play equipment,
fences, retaining walls, accessory structures or buildings, unless an approved
mitigation and replacement plan is obtained.
      8.   Wetlands and their required buffer area may not be used for any
filling or dumping.
      9.   Wetlands and their required buffer area may not be used for outside
storage of any household or personal items, lawn equipment, furniture,
firewood, parts, yard waste, or similar.
      10.   Any swimming pools, patios, decks, drive aisles, parking lots,
etc., must be setback a minimum of five feet (5') from any required buffer
area, whichever is greater, unless otherwise permitted by Title 15.
Environmental Standards.
      11.   Water quality ponds may encroach into required wetland buffer areas
provided that the amount of encroachment may not exceed 50 percent of the total
area required for the buffer.
      12.   All Structures and Buildings on land affected by a delineated
wetland or buffer shall be subject to the requirements of Table [12-4A-4.1].
 
Table 12-4A-4.1 Wetland Required Buffers and Setbacks
                                         Standard
Wetland Buffer Area (Minimum)             10'
Wetland Buffer Area (Maximum)             50'
Wetland Buffer Area (Average)             25'
Structure or Building Setback from Buffer 10'
 
   D.   Buffer Requirements.
      1.   The vegetation requirements for all required Buffer Areas are
established in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
      2.   The vegetation plan for revegetation of any disturbed Buffer Areas
may be subject to review and approval by the Natural Resources Commission.
      3.   Any request for a Variance from the required setback from the Buffer
Area, or reduction in Buffer Area must follow the Variance requirements and
process as established in Chapter [5] Administration.
   E.   Wetland Alteration or Replacement Plans.
      1.   Any request for wetland alterations or modifications shall be
subject to Minnesota Rules, Chapter 8420.
      2.   Wetland Replacement Plans must be reviewed and approved by the City
Council.
      3.   Wetland Replacement Plans must provide a planting list which
contains both the common and botanical names of each species to be planted.
      4.   If a Wetland Replacement Plan is approved, the established
delineated boundary shall be used in calculating the required setback and
Buffer Area. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the installation
and maintenance of landscape improvements in areas of the City developed with
uses other than single-family detached and attached residential uses. The
regulations that follow are intended to support and reinforce the City’s
commitment to natural resources and green space throughout the City.
   B.   Applicability. The following landscape requirements apply to all new
development or redevelopment of multi-family, mixed-use, industrial, and
business uses. Landscape requirements for single-family detached and attached
residential uses are provided in Section [12-4B-2] of this Chapter.
   C.   Landscape Plan Required, Contents. Landscape plans prepared by a
registered landscape architect shall be submitted as part of the application
for Building Permit or Site Plan approval. Landscape plans must be drawn to a
scale of not less than one-inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') and must include
the following information:
      1.   Boundary lines of the property with accurate dimensions.
      2.   Locations of existing and proposed buildings, parking lots, roads
and other improvements.
      3.   Location, approximate size and common name and botanical name of
existing trees and shrubs.
      4.   Planting schedule containing symbols, quantities, common and
botanical names, size of plant materials and root condition.
      5.   Planting details illustrating proposed locations of all new plant
material.
      6.   Details of restoration of disturbed area including areas to be
sodded or seeded.
      7.   Locations and details of other landscape features including berms,
fences and planter boxes and all other landscaped features.
      8.   Location and details of irrigation systems; and details and cross
sections of all required screening.
      9.   Identification of all Significant Trees as defined in Title 15.
Environmental Standards, existing stands of trees and tree removal plan
identified.
   D.   Minimum Area and Plant Material Required.
      1.   At least 25 percent of the land area must be landscaped with grass,
ground cover, shrubbery and trees.
      2.   At least ten percent of any surface parking lot or area must contain
landscape medians, tree trenches, or other pervious landscape area.
      3.   The minimum tree and vegetation planting size requirements are
established in Table [12-4A-5.1].
 
Table 12-4A-5.1 Minimum Sizes of Required Plantings
Required Planting         Minimum Size
Overstory deciduous trees 2 ½ inches in diameter
Ornamental trees          1 ½ inches in diameter
Coniferous trees          6 feet tall
Major shrub plantings     5 gallons
 
      4.   As many existing native and non-invasive trees as is practicable
must be preserved and must be shown on the Site Plan. All Significant Trees
scheduled for removal must be identified on the Site Plan. A Significant Tree
is defined in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
      5.   Removal of all invasive trees or plants should be identified as part
of the initial landscape plan.
      6.   All new overstory trees must be balled and burlapped or moved from
the growing site by tree spade.
      7.   All site areas not covered by buildings, sidewalks, parking lots,
driveways, patios or similar hard surface materials must be sodded or planted
with a native ground cover, except undisturbed areas to be preserved in a
natural state and areas planned for future building expansion may be seeded.
      8.   A maximum of 50 percent of the required number of trees may be
composed of one species. The following trees species do not qualify for the
Required Plantings:
         a.   A species of the genus Ulmus (except those elms bred to be immune
to Dutch elm disease).
         b.   Box elder.
         c.   A species of genus Populus (poplar).
         d.   Female ginkgo.
         e.   Amur maple.
         f.   Norway maple.
         g.   Russian olive.
         h.   Ash.
         i.   Buckthorn.
         j.   Black locust.
      9.   Maintenance of Landscaping. The owner, tenant and their respective
agents are jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of all
landscaping in a condition presenting a healthy, neat and orderly appearance
that is free from refuse and debris. The owner or developer is responsible for
the removal of all invasive species during the construction or redevelopment
process. After site development or redevelopment, the owner or their assigns,
must continue to remove invasive species from their lot or landscape areas
according to an agreed maintenance schedule. Trees, plants and ground cover
that die and are required by an approved Site Plan or Landscape Plan must be
replaced as soon as seasonal or weather conditions allow.
         a.   A plan to provide adequate maintenance of landscaped areas must
be provided as part of the Landscape Plan review. An underground sprinkler
system may be required as part of any new development depending on the planting
plan and the required maintenance based on the plant types. A sprinkler system
must be designed to water and maintain all manicured landscape areas that are
not designed with native plants.
      10.   Bond Requirements.
         a.   When screening, landscaping or similar improvements to property
are required by this Chapter, a performance bond must be supplied by the owner
in an amount equal to at least one and one-half (1.5) times the value of such
screening, landscaping, or other improvements. The bond, with security
satisfactory to the City, shall be conditioned upon reimbursement of all
expenses incurred by the City for engineering, legal or other fees in
connection with making or completing such improvements. The bond shall be
provided prior to the issuance of any Building Permit and must be valid for a
period of time equal to one full growing season after the date of installation
of the landscaping. The City may accept a letter of credit, cash escrow or
equivalent in lieu of a bond in an amount and under such conditions as the City
may determine to be appropriate. In the event construction of the project is
not completed within the time prescribed by the City Council, the City may, at
its option, complete the work required at the expense of the owner and the
surety.
         b.   The City may allow an extended period of time for completion of
all landscaping if the delay is due to conditions which are reasonably beyond
the control of the developer or owner. Extensions may not exceed nine (9)
months and may be granted due to seasonal or weather conditions. When an
extension is granted, the City shall require such additional security as it
deems appropriate. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-6: IMPERVIOUS SURFACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish standards for
calculating impervious surface on a lot to ensure that each lot has pervious
area to help support localized surface water and stormwater management.
   B.   Applicability. The following standards apply to all Base Zoning
Districts. Additional standards and regulations may be identified in an
Environmental Overlay District, and where such standards exist, the more
restrictive standard shall apply.
   C.   General Provisions.
      1.   Impervious Surface Coverage calculations must include any ground
surface material or structure that retards water from being absorbed into the
ground. Such impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to, covered
structures such as buildings and structures, gazebos and decks, asphalt,
concrete, class 5, pavers or similar.
         a.   If an Owner proposes to use a pervious paver or pavement and
exclude it from the impervious calculation, the Public Works Director must
review the specification and determine that the material if properly maintained
does not meet the definition of impervious and can be excluded from this
requirement.
      2.   To determine the impervious surface coverage on a lot the total
ground floor area of buildings, structures and improvements such as sidewalks,
driveways, accessory buildings or structures, etc., must be added to determine
the combined total square footage. The total square feet of impervious surface
may not exceed the maximum impervious surface coverage percent of a lot as
established in Chapter 2 of this Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   A property Owner may appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator
or Public Works Director that a material or structure is pervious and therefore
does not contribute to the impervious surface calculation. The appeal process
is established in [Chapter 5. Administration] of this Zoning Ordinance. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-7: STRUCTURE HEIGHT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish certain exceptions
or regulations to the maximum height permitted in a Base Zoning District.
   B.   Exceptions for Increased Maximum Height in all Zoning Districts.
      1.   The maximum height established in each Base Zoning District
contained in Chapter 2 may be increased by 50 percent for the following
structures:
         a.   Belfries, chimneys, church spires, cooling towers, cupolas and
domes which do not contain usable space, elevator penthouses, fire and hose
towers, flagpoles, monuments, observation towers, smokestacks, water towers.
      2.   Parapet walls extending a maximum of three feet (3') above the
permitted height of the building established by the Base Zoning District.
      3.   Properties or lots located in the Mississippi River Corridor
Critical Area (MRCCA) are subject to the height standards if more stringent
than the exceptions stated herein.
   C.   Height Standards for Infill Development in R-1 Zoning District. The
following height standards are established for any infill lot in the R-1 Zoning
District:
      1.   The permitted maximum height shall be determined by taking the
average of the two adjacent principal residential structures, but in no case
shall the maximum be set lower than 15-feet.
      2.   To exceed the maximum height established in C.1, a Conditional Use
Permit must be obtained. In no case shall the permitted height exceed 25-feet
unless a Variance is also obtained.
   D.   Properties or lots located in the Mississippi River Corridor Critical
Area (MRCCA) are subject to the height standards established by Chapter [6] if
more stringent than the exceptions stated herein. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-8: ACCESSORY STRUCTURE STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the type,
placement, size, and use of all Accessory Structures in the City. The City has
determined that regulating Accessory Structures protects the character of
neighborhoods by ensuring that development and use of individual lots is
consistent and maintains orderly development patterns.
   B.   Applicability and Type. All Accessory Structures in the City are
subject to certain standards and regulations as described herein. In addition
to the General Provisions, the City has classified Accessory Structures into
three categories:
      1.   Private Garage. Means an Accessory Structure that is generally used
for storage of personal vehicles and other residential storage and is for the
purpose of serving a single-family attached or detached residential unit.
      2.   Storage Building. Means an Accessory Structure that is generally
used for the storage of personal items. Such structures may include a small
storage shed or chicken coop, etc.
      3.   Non-Building Structures. A Non-Building Accessory Structure means
any permanent physical improvement to a lot that does not meet the definition
of a Building. Such Accessory Structure is permanently affixed to the land and
may increase the impervious coverage of a property, is subject to certain
dimensional requirements and may require an Administrative Permit. Examples of
Accessory Structures include, but may not be limited to: sport courts, above
ground or inground swimming pools, swing sets, children’s play structure or
treehouse, sandboxes/volleyball courts, sport court, gazebos, patios, etc.
There is no limit on the number of permitted non-building accessory structures
permitted on a lot.
   C.   General Provisions. The following standards are established and are
applicable to all residential and non-residential Accessory Structures in the
City.
      1.   Setback Requirements. All lots must meet the following standards:
         a.   No detached Accessory Structure that is a building shall be
located closer to the front lot line than the Principal Building on that lot.
         b.   Setback from Principal Building. No detached Accessory Structure
that is a Building shall be erected, altered, or moved within five feet (5') of
the Principal Building.
         c.   All other Accessory Building setback requirements are established
in Chapter 2 of the Base Zoning District in which the lot is located.
         d.   All Accessory Structures that are not Accessory Buildings must be
a setback a minimum of five feet (5') from any lot line,
      2.   Impervious Surface Requirements. All lots must meet the impervious
surface coverage requirements as established in the Base Zoning District in
which the lot is located. The calculation must include all Accessory Structures
as described herein if they meet the definition of impervious.
      3.   No Accessory Structure shall be permitted to be constructed on a
site without a Principal Building or Use.
      4.   Time for Construction. No Accessory Structure, including parking
area, shall be constructed on any lot prior to the time of construction of the
Principal Building to which it is accessory.
      5.   Use Restrictions. No Accessory Building, tent, or any other
temporary Accessory Structure may be used as an occupied dwelling for human
habitation.
      6.   Subdivision. In the event that any property upon which an Accessory
Structure has been erected and is later subdivided, then the number and size of
Accessory Structures on the subdivided property shall conform to the
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. Any Accessory Structures that do not
conform must be relocated, removed or reconstructed so that all resulting lots
and improvements conform with this Zoning Ordinance.
      7.   Administrative Permit Required. All Accessory Structures require an
Administrative Permit to verify size and location of the structure to ensure
compliance with the standards and requirements identified in this Chapter.
   D.   Private Garage. The following standards shall apply to all Accessory
Structures that are defined as a Private Garage.
      1.   General Provisions applicable to all lots or parcels.
         a.   One (1) Private Garage, which may be attached or detached to the
Principal Building, per residential lot or unit is permitted in all Residential
Base Zoning Districts.
         b.   The size of a Private Garage shall be calculated based on the
building footprint area. The following size standards shall apply:
            (1)   Private Garage Attached to Principal Building.
               (A)   Up to 1,200 square feet; or
               (B)   Greater than 1,200 square feet to 1,500 square feet with a
Conditional Use Permit.
            (2)   Private Garage Detached from Principal Building.
               (A)   Up to 750 square feet; or
               (B)   Greater than 750 square feet to 1,000 square feet with a
Conditional Use Permit.
      2.   Exception for Two (2) Private Garages on a Lot. On parcels that
contain more than 0.75 acres of Buildable Area a second detached Private Garage
may be permitted provided the standards established in Table [12-4A-8.1] and
any other applicable standards are met.
 
Table 12-4A-8.1. Maximum Size of Second Detached Private Garage
Buildable Area of Lot  Permitted     Conditional Use Permit
>0.75 - 1.5 acres      750 sq. ft.   1,000 sq. ft.
>1.5 acres - 2.5 acres 1,000 sq. ft. 1,200 sq. ft.
>2.5 acres - 5.0 acres 1,500 sq. ft. 1,800 sq. ft.
>5 acres               2,000 sq. ft. 2,400 sq. ft.
 
      3.   Standards For Private Garages.
         a.   Floor Elevation. The floor of a Private Garage must be at least
one and one-half feet (1 ½’) above the street grade at the curb unless a
deviation is granted by the Public Works Director upon determination that a
lower elevation is appropriate.
         b.   Garage Doors. No more than 36 linear feet of garage door per
structure as viewed from the public right-of-way, measured horizontally, may be
installed to provide access to any Private Garage or other Accessory Building
on a single- or two-family residential property. More than 36 linear feet of
garage door as viewed from the public right-of-way may be permitted with a
Conditional Use Permit.
         c.   Height. Maximum height of a garage door is nine feet (9'), or up
to 12 feet may be permitted with a Conditional Use Permit (CUP).
         d.   Total Size. The total building footprint area of all attached and
detached Private Garages on a lot may not exceed the finished square footage of
the Principal Building.
         e.   Design Compatibility. Detached Private Garages must be
architecturally compatible with the Principal Building, including exterior
design, materials and colors.
   E.   Storage Building. The following standards shall apply to all Accessory
Structures defined as a Storage Building.
      1.   General Provisions applicable to all Zoning Districts.
         a.   One (1) Storage Building is permitted on each lot or parcel in
all Base Zoning Districts.
         b.   The maximum size of a Storage Building is 144 square feet.
         c.   Exception for two (2) Storage Buildings. A second Storage
Building is permitted on each lot or parcel if the Storage Building is defined
as a Chicken Coop and Run that meets the specific requirements as provided in
[Subsection (2.) herein]. A lot may contain only a Chicken Coop and Run, and
depending on its size, may impact the permitted square footage of a second
Storage Building as identified in (iv.) below.
         d.   A maximum of 225-square feet of combined Storage Building and
Chicken Coop/Run is permitted on each lot/parcel in all Base Zoning Districts.
      2.   Storage Building - Requirements for Chicken Coops and Runs. The
following standards are applicable to all Chicken Coops and Runs:
         a.   Size, Setback and Building Requirements.
            (1)   The required dimensions of a coop and run are:
               (A)   The interior floor space of the chicken coop must provide
a minimum of two (2) square feet for each chicken authorized under the
Administrative Permit. The floor area of the run must have a minimum of five
(5) square feet per chicken. The maximum area of the coop and run is 144 square
feet.
               (B)   The maximum height of the coop and run is ten feet (10'),
regardless of if it is attached to an Accessory Structure used for other
purposes. The chicken coop portion of such a structure may not be taller than
ten feet (10').
               (C)   The coop and run must be set back a minimum of ten feet
(10') from the side and rear lot lines of the property on which the coop is
located. The coop and run must be located in the rear or side yard and are not
permitted in the front yard of a property.
               (D)   The chicken run shall be fully enclosed (sides and top) by
fencing or other similar materials.
         b.   Regulations. The keeping, harboring, maintaining, or possessing
of any chicken must comply with the following:
            (1)   Limit. a maximum of six (6) chickens shall be kept or
harbored on the lot to which the Administrative Permit is granted.
            (2)   Roosters. The keeping of roosters is prohibited.
            (3)   Slaughter. Slaughtering of chickens on any property zoned for
residential use is prohibited.
            (4)   Eggs. No chicken eggs shall be sold or offered for sale; all
chicken eggs shall be for personal use or consumption.
            (5)   Fighting. Chickens shall not be raised or kept for fighting.
            (6)   Food. Food materials stored outside must be contained within
closed containers with lids.
            (7)   Sanitation. All containment areas and structures shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary and odor free environment and must be free from
rodents or other pests at all times.
            (8)   Disposal of Waste. Fecal waste or coop related litter must be
removed at such reasonable times to prevent odors from emitting over property
lines. Such waste or litter must be double bagged and disposed of properly.
Waste or litter is allowed to be composted on the property, provided the
composting is done in a sturdy, weather resistant compost bin or dedicated
enclosure. Should the composting be done in an unhealthy or ineffective manner,
whereby creating a public nuisance or complaint from a neighboring resident,
the permit holder shall immediately cease all waste composting on the property
and remove such waste composting bin(s) if so ordered by the Zoning
Administrator or animal warden.
            (9)   Nuisance. Chickens may not be kept in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance. Any violation of the provisions of this
Subsection shall be deemed a public nuisance.
            (10)   Inspection. Any chicken coop and run authorized under this
Section may be inspected at any reasonable time by the Zoning Administrator,
animal warden or their designee.
            (11)   In addition to the Administrative Permit application
requirements established in Chapter 5, the following information shall be
submitted with the application:
               (A)   The number of chickens to be kept on the premises; and
               (B)   A Site Plan to show the location, the dimensions and
design of the coop and run. The Site Plan must show detailed dimensions to
demonstrate compliance with the chicken coop and run specifications provided in
this Section; and
               (C)   A statement certifying whether the property’s homeowners’
association rules, if any, prohibit the keeping of chickens on the property;
and
               (D)   Any other and further information as the City deems
necessary.
            (12)   Revocation. An Administrative Permit granted under this
Section of the Code may be revoked by the Zoning Administrator or Animal Warden
with a finding in writing to the Applicant that a violation of any of these
standards has occurred or that there is a threat or public health, safety or
welfare. Such revocation may be appealed to the City Council, whose decision
shall be final.
   F.   Non-Building Accessory Structure. The following standards shall apply
to all Accessory Structures defined as a Non-Building Accessory Structure.
      1.   General Provisions applicable to all Base Zoning Districts.
         a.   Impervious Surface Coverage. The permitted size and area of Non-
Building Accessory Structures is limited by the maximum impervious surface
coverage established for the Base Zoning District in which the lot is located.
Such improvements must be calculated and combined with all other improvements
on the lot to demonstrate compliance with the maximum impervious surface
coverage requirements.
         b.   Temporary Non-Building Accessory Structures. Any temporary
structure such as a seasonal hoop house, garden structure, ice rink boards,
etc., that is installed for seasonal purposes, must be sited to meet all
applicable setbacks and may not be permanently affixed to the ground on a year-
round basis and is not subject to the impervious surface calculation.
         c.   Location. A Non-Building Accessory Structure, provided such
structure is not covered with a roof or similar architectural treatment, may be
located in front of a Principal Building if it is properly screened from the
public right-of-way and it meets the required front yard setback.
      2.   Specific Provisions regarding certain Accessory Structures.
         a.   Childrens Play Structure or Treehouses. A play structure or
treehouse may not include a permanent foundation, sheetrock, power, plumbing or
any other improvements that would require a building or electrical permit. A
play structure or tree house not meeting this criterion is not permitted.
   G.   Temporary Family Healthcare Dwellings. Pursuant to authority granted by
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.3593, subdivision 9, the City of Mendota Heights
opts out of the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section 462.3593, which
defines and regulates temporary family healthcare dwellings. By opting out, the
City expressly prohibits temporary family healthcare dwellings as defined in
Minnesota Statues Section 462.3593. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-9: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate off-street parking
and loading spaces to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-
way; to promote the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street parking; and to provide standards for
loading and unloading motor vehicles based on the use of a lot, parcel or
structure.
   B.   Applicability. The regulations and requirements set forth in this
Section shall apply to any required or nonrequired off-street parking
facilities in all Base Zoning Districts.
   C.   Site Plan Required. All applications for an Occupancy Permit must
include a Site Plan application as described in Chapter [5] Administration to
demonstrate adequate off-street parking and loading facilities are provided.
   D.   General Provisions.
      1.   Floor Area. For the purpose of calculating the number of off-street
parking spaces required, the net usable floor area of the floors devoted to
retail sales, services, office space, processing and fabrication, exclusive of
hallways, utility space, and storage areas other than warehousing shall be
used.
      2.   Reduction of Existing Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces. Off-
street parking spaces and loading spaces existing upon the effective date of
this Chapter may not be reduced in number unless the number of existing spaces
exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      3.   Benches in Places of Public Assembly. In stadiums, churches and
other places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches,
pews or other similar seating facilities, every 22 inches of seating area is
equivalent to one (1) seat for the purpose of determining the number of
required parking spaces.
      4.   Size of Spaces. The dimensions of each parking space must be a
minimum of nine feet (9') wide by 20 feet in length, exclusive of access
drives. The length of the parking space may be reduced to 18 feet if the
parking space is designed to overhang a green space or landscape area.
      5.   Parking Space and Drive Aisle Standards. Unless otherwise noted in
this Zoning Ordinance, parking space and drive aisle standards shall be
designed to comply with the standards established in Table [12-4A-9.1] Parking
and Drive Aisle Standards.
 
   Table 12-4A-9.1. Parking Stall and Drive Aisle Standards.
Angle of Parking Stall Width       Stall Length of Aisle Width     Stall Depth
                 Parallel to Aisle Line
45 Degrees       9 ft.             19 ft           15 ft (one-way) 17 ft. 6 in.
60 Degrees       9 ft.             19 ft.          20 ft (one-way) 17 ft. 6 in.
90 Degrees       9 ft.             18 ft.          24 ft.          18 ft.
Parallel         8 ft.             20 ft.          26 ft.          20 ft
 
      6.   Use of Parking Facilities.
         a.   Residential Base Zoning District. The following standards apply
to all property located in a Residential Base Zoning District.
            (1)   Off-street parking facilities accessory to a principal
residential use must be utilized solely for parking of passenger automobiles.
            (2)   Under no circumstances shall parking facilities accessory to
residential structures be used for open area storage of commercial vehicles.
            (3)   No Semitrailer, Truck Tractor, or a combination thereof, or
any Custom Service Vehicle as defined in Title X, Section [6-1-2] of the City
Code, or any truck in excess of 9,000 pounds gross vehicle weight may be parked
within a Residential Base Zoning District except for the purpose of loading,
unloading, or in the process of making a delivery.
            (4)   Exceptions in Residential Base Zoning Districts. For each
dwelling unit, one truck not to exceed 3,000 pounds rated capacity may be
parked on a residential lot, provided that such truck is used by the occupant
of the residence.
         b.   Commercial or Industrial Base Zoning District. The following
standards apply to any property located in the Commercial or Industrial Base
Zoning Districts.
            (1)   Any off-street parking space that is required to be provided
for employees, patrons, visitors, etc., of a permitted use may not be utilized
for open storage of goods or for the storage of vehicles which are inoperable,
for lease, rent or sale.
      7.   Location.
         a.   Residential Base Zoning Districts: Any required off-street
parking in the Residential Base Zoning Districts must be on the same lot as the
Principal Building.
         b.   Setbacks in all Base Zoning Districts: Required off-street
parking in all Base Zoning Districts must meet the following setback
requirements:
            (1)   Within all Residential Base Zoning Districts, all vehicles
normally owned or kept by the occupants on the premises must have a garage
stall or parking space on the lot in a location other than a required yard;
except, that parking may be located in a rear yard to within five feet (5') of
an interior side lot line and rear lot line.
            (2)   All driveways constructed to serve single-family dwellings on
corner lots must be set back a minimum of 30 feet from the property lines
adjacent to the street corner.
         c.   Setbacks in Business and Industrial Base Zoning Districts: (See
Figure [12-4A-9.1 and 12-4A-9.2] of this Section.)
            (1)   In the B-1, B-2 and Industrial Zoning Districts when a
property is located across the street from a property zoned R-1, parking spaces
may not be located within the front yard.
            (2)   In B-1, B-2 and Industrial Zoning Districts, when a property
is located across the street or abuts a Residential Base Zoning District, the
required parking spaces must be located a minimum of 20-feet from the abutting
lot lines.
            (3)   In the Industrial Zoning District, parking spaces or aisles
serving parking areas must be setback a minimum of 20-feet from any public
right-of-way and a minimum of ten feet (10') from a building or lot line.
Figure 12-4A-9.1 Business and Industrial Off-Street Parking - Across or
Abutting a Base Residential Zoning District)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2663.png]
      8.     Surface and Materials .
         a.    Any required off-street parking area must be surfaced with a
hard, all weather, durable material with an approved curb or bumper stops
defining the edge of all parking areas and driveways. All parking areas
containing more than six (6) spaces facing a public street or Residential Base
Zoning District must have a solid screen, wall or fence a minimum of four feet
(4') high but may not exceed six feet (6') high.
      9.   Screening. Screening of off-street parking must comply with the
standards established in Section [
12-4D-2 ].
      10.   If a property is zoned B-1, B-2 or Industrial and is not across the
street or abutting a Residential Base Zoning District, the parking spaces must
be located at least 20 feet from the front lot line and ten feet (10') from any
side or rear lot line. For the purpose of applying this Section, all lot lines
abutting a public street are considered a front lot line. See [Figure 12-4A-
9.2] of this Section.
Figure 12-4A-9.2 Business and Industrial Off-Street Parking - Not Across or
Abutting a Base Residential Zoning District
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2665.png]
         a.    Within the B-1, B-2 and Industrial Base Zoning Districts, off-
street parking spaces must be setback a minimum of 20' from any public street
right-of-way line.
      11.   Driveway Access Required. All off-street parking spaces must have
access from a driveway and may not be accessed directly from a public street.
      12.   Joint Parking Facilities. Off-street parking facilities for a
combination of one or more uses may be provided collectively in any Base Zoning
District except for single-family detached uses, provided that the total number
of spaces equals the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
      13.   Off Site Parking Facilities. When required accessory off-street
parking facilities are provided other than on the lot on which the principal
use is located, written authority for using such property for off-street
parking must be filed with the City so that the required number of off-street
parking spaces for the duration of the principal use is maintained. No off-site
parking facilities may be located more than 100-feet from the principal use.
   E.   Design And Maintenance of Off-Street Parking Areas.
      1.   Access, Width and Location. Parking areas must be designed to
provide an adequate means of access to a public alley or street. The driveway
access may not be more than 25-feet in width at the property line in
Residential Base Zoning Districts and may not be more than 30-feet in width at
the property line in all other Zoning Districts. The driveway access must be
located to cause the least interference with traffic movement.
      2.   Calculating Space. When the number of required off-street parking
spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall
require a full space.
      3.   Signs. Signs located in any parking area necessary for orderly
operation of traffic movement are not to be included as a part of the permitted
advertising sign square footage.
      4.   Surfacing. Subject to the provisions of [Section 12-4B-2B2] of this
Chapter, the area intended to be utilized for parking space and driveways must
be surfaced with a hard, all weather, durable material and is subject to the
approval of the City Council, except for parking areas of less than three (3)
vehicles.
      5.   Lighting. Lighting must have no direct source of light visible from
the public right-of-way or adjacent land in a Residential Base Zoning District.
      6.   Curbing, Bumper Guards and Landscaping. All open off-street parking
areas designed to have head in parking along the interior property line must
provide a bumper curb or guard of normal bumper height to ensure that no part
of any car will project beyond the required setbacks as established in this
Chapter. When such area is for six (6) spaces or more and not located to the
rear of a building, a curb or fence not over three feet (3') in height must be
created at the required parking setback line, and grass or planting must occupy
the space between the property line and the required curb or fence.
      7.   Maintenance of Off-Street Parking Areas. The operator of the
principal use, uses or structures shall maintain in a neat and adequate manner
the parking space, accessways, landscaping and required curbs and fences.
   F.   Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces. The number of required
off-street parking spaces based on the use of a structure or property is
identified in Table [12-4A-7.3].
Table 12-4A-7.3 Required Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
Type of Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Table 12-4A-7.3 Required Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
Type of Use                             Number of Parking Spaces Required
Auto repair - major, bus terminal, taxi
terminal, boat and marine sales,        Minimum of 8 spaces, plus 1 additional
bottling company, shop for trade        space for each 800 square feet of floor
employing 6 people or less, garden      area over 1,000 square feet.
supply store, building material sales
Bowling alley                           5 spaces for each alley.
Church, auditorium, gathering/          1 space for every 3 1/2 seats based on
congregating space                      the design capacity of the main
                                        assembly hall.
Community center, post office, YMCA,    10 spaces, plus 1 space for every 300
YWCA, physical culture studio, pool     square feet of floor area greater than
hall, library, private club, lodge,     2,000 square feet in the principal
museum                                  structure.
                                        4 spaces, plus 1 space for every 500
Daycare center                          square feet of floor area greater than
                                        1,000 square feet in the principal
                                        structure.
                                        1 space for each employee per shift in
                                        addition to at least 1 space for every
Drive-in and fast-food restaurant       15 square feet of gross floor area in
                                        the building, as per [Section
                                        12-3B-4B.5] of this Title.
Furniture store, appliance store,       1 space for every 500 square feet of
warehouse - under 15,000 square feet of floor area in the principal structure.
floor area; auto sales, and studio
                                        20 spaces, plus 1 space for every 300
Golf course, country club, tennis club, square feet of floor area greater than
public swimming pool                    1,000 square feet in the principal
                                        structure.
Hospital                                1 space for each 1 hospital bed.
                                        Minimum of 4 spaces, plus 1 space for
Manufacturing, fabricating or           every 800 square feet of building; and
processing of a product or material     1 space for every 2,500 square feet or
                                        fraction thereof of land devoted to
                                        outside storage.
Motel, motor hotel, motor court, or     1 space for each guestroom.
hotel
                                        Minimum of 4 surface spaces, plus 3
                                        spaces for each enclosed service stall;
                                        and 1 outside space for every 150
Motor fuel station and motor fuel       square feet of floor area devoted to
station convenience store               retail sales in a motor fuel station
                                        convenience store. In the case of
                                        rental of trailers, trucks and other
                                        vehicles, 1 space must be provided for
                                        each rental unit stored on site.
Multi-family residential use (5+        1 space per dwelling unit, or 1 space
dwelling units)                         per bedroom, whichever is greater.
Office building and professional office 3 spaces, plus 1 space for every 500
having less than 6,000 square feet of   square feet of net usable floor area.
floor area
Office building and professional office 1 space for every 200 square feet of
having 6,000 square feet or more of     net usable floor area.
floor area, bank, savings institution
Restaurant, café, bar, tavern,         1 space for each employee per shift and
nightclub                               1 space for every 3 seats in the
                                        facility.
                                        Minimum of 7 spaces, and 1 space for
Retail sales and service establishment  every 200 square feet of gross floor
                                        area greater than 1,000 square feet.
                                        1 space for every 7 students (based on
School, high school                     design capacity) plus 1 space for every
                                        3 classrooms.
                                        1 space for each classroom, plus 1
                                        space for every 2 students, (based on
School, trade school and college        design capacity) plus parking ratios
                                        based on other uses established on this
                                        table.
Single-family detached or attached      2 spaces for each unit, one must be
dwelling unit (1 to 4 dwelling units)   covered.
Skating rink, dance hall, public        Minimum of 15 spaces, plus 1 additional
auction house, golf driving range,      space for every 300 square feet of
miniature golf, trampoline center and   floor area greater than 2,000 square
similar uses                            feet.
Theater, athletic field                 1 space for every 3 seats (based on
                                        design capacity).
Warehouse, storage handling of bulk     1 space for every 2,000 square feet of
goods                                   gross floor area.
                                        As determined by the City Council
Uses not specifically noted             following review by the Planning
                                        Commission.
 
   G.   Off-Street Loading and Unloading.
      1.   Location:
         a.   All Loading Berths must be off-street and must be located on the
same lot as the building or use to be served.
         b.   Minimum Setbacks of a Loading Berth.
            (1)   A minimum of 50 feet from the intersection of two (2) street
rights-of-way.
            (2)    A minimum of 100 feet from the intersection of street
rights-of-way of major thoroughfares.
            (3)   A minimum of 50 feet from a Residential Base Zoning District,
unless the Loading Berth is fully enclosed within a building.
         c.   Loading Berths must be located outside the require front yard
setback.
         d.   Size. Unless otherwise specified, the first Loading Berth shall
be not less than 12 feet in width and 50 feet in length. Additional Loading
Berths must not be less than 12 feet in width and 25 feet in length. All
Loading Berths must maintain a height of 14 feet or more.
         e.   Access. Each Loading Berth must be located with appropriate means
of access to a public street or alley in a manner that will interfere least
with traffic.
         f.   Surfacing. All Loading Berths and accessways must be surfaced
with asphalt or concrete.
         g.   Screening. External loading and service areas must be completely
screened from the ground level view from any abutting residential or commercial
properties and any public right-of-way, except at access points and driveways.
Minimum screening requirements are set forth in [Section 12-4D-2B].
         h.   Accessory Use Prohibited. Any area allocated as a required
Loading Berth or access drive to comply with the terms of this Chapter may not
be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles, and may not be included
as a part of the area required to meet the off-street parking area.
   H.   Required Loading Berths. The use of a property is correlated to the
required number of Loading Berths on a site. All uses must comply with the
standards established in Table [12-4A-9.4.]
 
Table 12-4A-9.4 Required Number of Loading Berths
Type of Use    Loading Berth Required
Auditorium,
convention     1 Berth 25 feet in length for each building having 1,000 to 10,000 square
hall, public   feet of floor area; for those buildings having 10,001 square feet of
building,      floor space to 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof, 1
hospital,      additional Berth 50 feet in length.
school, hotel,
sports arena
               1 Berth 25 feet in length for each building having 3,000 square feet or
               fraction thereof, plus 1 Berth 50 feet in length for each 25,000 square
Manufacturing, feet of floor area up to 100,000 square feet, plus 1 Berth for each
fabrication,   50,000 square feet of floor area over the first 100,000 square feet of
processing and floor area. The operator of the business shall have the option to declare
warehousing    the length of the Berth required for buildings above 100,000 square feet
               of floor area; except, that ½ or more of the total number of Berths
               required shall be 50 feet in length.
Retail sales   1 Berth 25 feet in length for each building having 6,000 square feet of
and service    floor area or more, plus 1 additional Berth 50 feet in length for each
store, office  25,000 square feet of floor area up to 100,000 square feet.
Nonresidential
uses having
5,000 square
feet of floor  4,000 to 20,000 square feet of floor area, 1 Berth; for every additional
space or more  10,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof above 2,500 square
and not        feet, 1 additional Berth.
included as
part of the
above 3 listed
uses
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-10: FENCES:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the placement,
height and type of fencing permitted in the City. The City has determined that
fencing can be an effective buffer or screen between visually incompatible uses
and can function to separate or delineate between individual lots. The
following standards are established.
   B.   Applicability. The following standards shall be applicable to all Base
Zoning Districts.
      1.   Permit and Compliance Required:
         a.   Application. An application for a Fence Permit is required for
any fence six feet (6') or less in height. A Fence Permit and a Building Permit
are required for any fence in excess of six feet (6').
         b.   Exception. Temporary fences installed to surround a hockey or
skating rink do not require a Fence Permit during the winter season. Fences for
this purpose are permitted to be a maximum of four feet (4') or less in height
and must be removed no later than March 31 of each year.
      2.   Location.
         a.   All fences must be located entirely on the private property of
the persons, firms or corporations constructing or causing the construction of
such fence unless the owner of the adjoining property agrees in writing that
such fence may be erected on the property line of the respective properties.
         b.   No fence may be installed in a location that would prevent a fire
hydrant from being immediately discernible or in any manner to deter or hinder
the fire department from gaining immediate access thereto.
      3.   Construction and Repair.
         a.   Construction and Maintenance:
         (1)   Every fence must be constructed in a substantial, workmanlike
manner and of substantial material reasonably suited for the purpose for which
the fence is proposed to be used.
         (2)   Every fence must be maintained in a condition of reasonable
repair and may not become, or remain, in a condition of disrepair or danger, or
constitute a nuisance, public or private.
         (3)   Any fence that is in violation of this Chapter, or has become
dangerous to the public safety, health or welfare, is a public nuisance and the
Code Enforcement Officer shall commence proper proceedings for the abatement
thereof.
         (4)   Face Side: That side of the fence considered to be the face (the
side opposite the post) must face abutting property or the street or other
public right-of-way.
         (5)   Height: The Fence height shall be measured at a point six inches
(6") below the top of the supporting posts. No fence or material between posts
is permitted to be greater in height than the highest post on either side of
said fence material.
   C.   Fences in Residential Base Zoning Districts.
      1.   Height, Style and Location.
         a.   Front Yard. The maximum height of a fence in a front yard is four
feet (4') in height.
         b.   Interior Lot Line. The maximum height of a fence erected on
interior lot lines behind the front yard setback line and on any rear lot line
is six feet (6') in height.
         c.   Rear Yard. The maximum height of a fence erected on a rear lot
line is six feet (6') in height.
         d.   Corner Lot. The maximum height of fence along that portion of the
side lot line equal to the front yard setback is four feet (4'). A fence up to
six feet (6') may be permitted but must be reviewed and approved by the Public
Works Director. Additional setbacks from the property line may be required at
the discretion of the Public Works Director based on existing improvements or
the presence of any easements.
         e.   Style of Fences. Fences in front yards must be an open decorative
style fence so that at least 30 percent of the plane between the ground and the
top of the fence is open.
         f.   Gates. Where a gate is proposed to obstruct access to a driveway
in a yard abutting a street or other public right-of-way, such gate requires a
Conditional Use Permit, and must comply with the following conditions:
            (1)   The applicant must show that the gate is needed to mitigate
an unsafe condition related to visibility of the driveway and gate area from
the principal building, intersection of the driveway with the public street, or
other unsafe condition as approved by the City.
            (2)   All plans and specifications for the proposed gate must be
reviewed, and approved, by the Police and Fire Departments prior to
installation.
            (3)   The minimum setback of a gate from the paved edge of a street
is 25 feet.
            (4)   Gates may be a maximum of five (5') feet in height.
            (5)   The gate must be able to be opened in the event of a power
failure.
            (6)   All gates must be equipped with an override to any latch or
electronic closure to ensure access by Police and Fire Department or a Code
Enforcement Officer at all times. The override mechanism must be properly
functioning and must not be disabled by the property owner.
            (7)   Gates are considered fences for the purposes of this
Subsection [
12-4A-10 C], requiring a Building Permit, and are subject to all other
applicable fence regulations, including, but not limited to, building
materials.
            (8)   Any gate that does not meet the standards set forth in this
Subsection [
12-4A-10 -C1e], or that is determined by the Police or Fire Department or a
Code Enforcement Officer to not be properly functioning or properly maintained,
must be immediately repaired or removed upon notice to the property owner. For
purposes of this Subsection [
12-4A-10 -C1e], the Police or Fire Department or Code Enforcement Officer may
determine that a gate is not being properly maintained if the gate is rusted or
deteriorated or if the condition of the gate poses a threat to health, safety
or welfare in any manner.
      2.   Chain-link Fences.
         a.   Exception to Height. chain-link fences used for the enclosure of
tennis courts may be a maximum of ten feet (10') in height and may not be
located within the required front yard setback.
         b.   Barbed Wire Fences Prohibited. Chain-link fences must be
constructed in such a manner that no barbed ends shall be at the top.
Figure 12-4A-8.1 Residential Fence Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2669.png]
   D.    Fences In Business, Industrial Zoning Districts and Public/Se mi-
Public Overlay District.
      1.     Height. Fences may be erected along the property line and to a
maximum height of six feet (6').
      2.    Spe cifications. Fences on Business, Industrial and PSP-
O properties abutting a Residential Base Zoning District must be erected a
minimum of six inches (6") from the property line, must be one hundred percent
opaque, and may not exceed six feet (6') in height, except for those provided
in Subsection [12-4A-D3] of this Section.
         a.   If the required fence is adjacent to a public right-of-way it
must be four feet (4) in height, and must be erected and maintained in the
front portion of the lot or along the side or rear property line that abuts the
Residential Base Zoning District.
         b.   If a Business, Industrial or PSP use has a required off-street
parking lot with six (6) or more vehicles, and the parking lot is located
abutting a Residential Base Zoning District, a six foot (6') fence must be
erected along the required parking setback line, and any fence in the front
yard must meet the standards in (a.) of this subsection. The required fence
must be a minimum of 80 percent opaque.
      3.   Conditional Use Permit for Certain Fences. Fences over six feet (6')
in height or fences with a security arm or barbed wire must obtain a
Conditional Use Permit.
   E.   Permitted Encroachments onto Public Ways. Notwithstanding the other
requirements of Subsection B, C or D , fences between four feet (4') in height
and six feet (6') in height may be allowed to encroach into rear yards of
corner and through lots or side yards of corner lots through administrative
approval by the Public Works Director and Zoning Administrator (or their
assigns) when said yard abuts a public street; provided that the fence is not
be constructed on a public easement for street, utility, or drainage purposes.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4A-11: SIGNS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the size, placement
and visual appearance of signs in the City. Signs are a permitted accessory use
in all Zoning Districts subject to the following regulations.
   B.   Permit Requirements.
      1.   Permit Required. Except as herein exempted, no person, firm or
corporation shall install, erect, relocate, modify, alter, or change the color
on any sign in the City without first obtaining a permit.
      2.   Application. Application for permits must be made in writing upon
printed forms furnished by the City, and must be accompanied by a complete
description of the sign, its proposed location, the manner of construction and
materials used in the sign, a sketch of the sign and such other information as
the Code Enforcement Department deems necessary.
      3.   Enforcement. In addition to any other remedies available to the
City, a triple fee shall be charged if a sign is erected without first
obtaining a permit for such sign.
      4.   Exemptions. No permit is required for the following signs; provided,
however, that all signs herein exempted from the permit requirements must
conform with all other requirements of this Zoning Ordinance:
         a.   Signs erected by a governmental unit.
         b.   Signs which are entirely within a building and not visible from
outside the building.
         c.   Address, nameplate and/or identification signs having an area of
two (2) square feet or less.
         d.   Garage sale, rummage sale and other similar temporary signs in
conjunction with the sale of household goods and materials from private
residences.
         e.   Real estate signs as regulated in Subsection [C] of this Section.
         f.   Election signs as regulated in Subsection [G] of this Section.
         g.   Holiday displays are not considered signs for the purposes of
this Section.
   C.   Real Estate Signs.
      1.   For purposes of selling or leasing property, a sign with a maximum
of 15 square feet per surface may be placed within the front yard of the
property to be sold or leased.
      2.   For the purpose of selling or promoting a residential project of six
(6) or more dwelling units, a commercial area of three (3) acres or more, or an
industrial area of ten (10) acres or more, or a commercial building, or an
industrial building the total sign area to promote the project or building
shall not to exceed 100 square feet of advertising surface. For any new
development, such sign shall not remain after 90 percent of the project is
developed or occupied.
         a.   A banner or other sign affixed to a building may be permitted
provided such sign is temporary and is removed once the property is bought or
leased. Such banner may only promote a real estate transaction of the subject
property.
   D.   Temporary Signs. There shall be no more than one temporary (3 months or
less) sign on any lot. The maximum total area of such sign is 25 square feet.
   E.   Prohibited Signs. Unless a sign is specifically permitted under this
Chapter, the sign is prohibited. By way of example and not by way of
limitation, the following signs are specifically prohibited:
      1.   Signs within the public right-of-way or easement; except, that the
City Council may grant an Interim Use Permit to locate signs and decorations on
or within city right-of-way for a specified time not to exceed 60 days.
      2.   Illuminated flashing signs within the RE, R-1, R-2, R-3, MU, B-1 or
B-2 Base Zoning Districts.
      3.   Illuminated signs or devices giving off an intermittent, steady or
rotating beam consisting of a collection or concentration of rays or lights
greater than two (2) square feet in area.
      4.   Any sign that, by reason of position, shape or color would interfere
in any way with the proper functioning or purpose of a traffic sign or signal.
      5.   Signs painted on fences, rocks, or similar structures or features.
      6.   Feather flag signs.
      7.   Animated signs, lighter than air inflatable devices, string lights,
strip lighting outlining structures, and signs attached or mounted on a vehicle
parked primarily for use as a sign.
      8.   Roof signs.
   F.   Nonconforming Signs. Signs existing on the effective date of this
Chapter which do not conform to the regulations set forth in this Chapter or
any previous ordinance are nonconforming uses.
   G.   Election Signs.
      1.   Election signs are permitted on private property in any Base Zoning
District, provided such signs are removed within ten (10) days following the
State General Election or within ten (10) days following the election the sign
relates to in a year during which no State General Election is held.
      2.   No election sign shall be permitted in any Residential Base Zoning
District 46 days or more before the state primary in a State General Election
year, or more than one month preceding the election the sign relates to in a
year during which no State General Election is held.
      3.   No election sign shall be permitted on election day within 100-feet
of a building in which a polling place is situated or anywhere on public
property on which a polling place is situated. This restriction does not apply
to adjacent private property.
   H.   Signs In Residential Base Zoning Districts. Within any Residential Base
Zoning Districts, the following signs are permitted:
      1.   One nameplate sign per dwelling unit. Such sign shall not exceed two
(2) square feet in area per surface, and no sign shall be so constructed as to
have more than two (2) surfaces.
      2.   One nameplate sign for each dwelling group of six (6) or more units.
Such sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area per surface, and no sign
shall be so constructed as to have more than two (2) surfaces.
      3.   One nameplate sign for each permitted use or use by Conditional Use
Permit other than residential use, and such sign shall not exceed 12 square
feet in area per surface.
         a.   By Conditional Use Permit, a nonresidential use in a Residential
Base Zoning District which is allowed either as a Permitted or Conditional Use
may qualify for a second nameplate sign, provided that each of the following
requirements are met:
            (1)   The parcel on which such a sign is proposed must be a minimum
of 40 acres.
            (2)   The parcel on which such a sign is to be located must have
frontage on at least two (2) public roadways.
            (3)   No more than one sign may be allowed to be oriented toward
any one public roadway.
            (4)   The sign may be a maximum of 100 square feet in area per
surface.
            (5)   The sign may be a maximum of nine feet (9') in height from
the average natural grade at the base of the sign.
            (6)   The sign may be illuminated, provided the direct source of
light is not visible from the public right-of-way or any adjacent Residential
Base Zoning District.
            (7)   The sign may not be constructed as an internally lit cabinet.
            (8)   The sign must be constructed in a monument style fashion,
including a base of natural stone, brick or other masonry material.
            (9)   The sign area shall be landscaped with materials subject to a
plan submitted with the CUP application and approved by the City Council.
            (10)   Lighting of the sign must be limited from dusk to twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight.
      4.   By Conditional Use Permit, a use in a Residential Base Zoning
District which is allowed either as a Permitted or Conditional Use may qualify
for a wall sign in addition to a nameplate sign, provided that each of the
following requirements are met:
         a.   The parcel on which such a sign is proposed must be a minimum of
five (5) acres.
         b.   The sign is a maximum of 100 square feet in area.
         c.   The sign may be illuminated, provided the direct source of light
is not visible from the public right-of-way or any adjacent Residential Base
Zoning District.
      5.   Symbols, statues, sculptures and integrated architectural features
on nonresidential buildings may be illuminated by floodlights, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or any
adjacent Residential Base Zoning District.
      6.   Any sign over 100 square feet must be set back a minimum of 10 feet
from any property line. The maximum height of a sign above the average grade
level is 10 feet. Signs may be illuminated, but such lighting must be diffused
or indirect and the direct source of light may not visible beyond any lot line.
   I.   Signs in the Public/Semi-Public (PSP) Overlay Zoning District.
      1.   Within the PSP-O Zoning District, one freestanding electronic
display sign, is permitted provided that each of the following requirements are
met:
         a.   The parcel, or campus containing contiguous parcels, on which the
sign is proposed must be a minimum of two (2) acres.
         b.   The maximum area of the sign is 100 square feet in area per
surface.
         c.   The sign shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height from the
average natural grade at the base of the sign.
         d.   The maximum total area per surface for an electronic display is
50 percent of the sign’s total area. Only one contiguous electronic display
area is allowed per surface.
         e.   The sign must be setback a minimum of 10-feet from any external
property boundary line and must be setback a minimum of 50-feet from any
abutting Residential Base Zoning District, unless a less intrusive sign
placement can be accomplished. Any deviation from the standard must be approved
by the City Council.
         f.   The electronic display message may not change more than once
every one hour, except for emergency safety messages. Time, date, or
temperature is considered one electronic display when displayed alone, however
it may be included as a component of any other electronic display but cannot
change more than once every three (3) seconds.
         g.   The hours of operation shall be limited to six o’clock (6:00)
A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
         h.   The electronic display message shall be limited to static letters
and numbers. No portion of a message may contain animation, video or audio,
scroll, flash, twirl, fade, or change color.
         i.   The electronic display area shall be a black background and
messages shall not contain more than one font color.
         j.   The electronic display message shall be a minimum of four inches
(4") in height and must ensure readability.
         k.   Messages shall be limited to advertisement of products, events,
persons, institutions, activities, businesses, services or subjects which are
located on the premises only or which give public service information.
         l.   Malfunctioning signs shall be shut off immediately by the owner.
Additionally, the sign owner shall immediately stop the display if notified by
the City that the sign is noncompliant.
         m.   The sign shall be constructed in monument style fashion,
including a base of natural stone, brick or other masonry material of at least
24 inches in height from the average natural grade.
         n.   The base of the sign shall be landscaped and a plan for such
landscaping submitted with the applicable sign permit.
         o.   The sign shall be equipped with a sensor that detects the ambient
light level and adjusts the brightness of the sign accordingly. Brightness
shall not exceed 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light as measured using a
brightness meter from a preset distance depending on the sign size, as
indicated in the Table 12-4A-11.1 below:
 
Table 12-4A-11.1 Sign Area and Distance for Brightness Measurement
Sign Area        Measurement Distance (feet)
(square feet)
Measurement distance = v (sign area x 100)
 
      2.   By Conditional Use Permit, a Public/Semi-Public use in the RE, R-
1 or R-2 Base Zoning Districts which is allowed either as a Permitted or
Conditional Use may qualify for one additional freestanding electronic display
sign, provided that the requirements of [Section 12-4A-11.I.1] are met and each
of the following additional requirements:
         a.   The parcel, or campus containing contiguous parcels, on which the
sign is proposed must be a minimum of 20 acres.
         b.   The sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in area per surface and
the electronic display area shall not exceed 50 percent of the sign’s total
area.
         c.   The sign shall be set back a minimum of 300-feet from any
external property boundary line.
         d.   Landscaping shall be installed to provide screening of the sign
from any surrounding residential uses.
   J.   Signs In B-1, B-2 and I Zoning Districts.
      1.   Nameplates And Business Signs. Nameplate signs and business signs
are permitted subject to the following regulations:
         a.   [B-1 and Industrial Districts:]
            (1)   Within the [B-1 and I] Zoning Districts, the aggregate square
footage of such space per lot shall not exceed the sum of two (2) square feet
per front foot of building, plus one (1) square foot for each front foot of lot
not occupied by such building which fronts on a public right-of-way fifty feet
(50') or more in width. The least width of a lot for purposes of this Chapter
shall be the front. No individual sign surface shall exceed one hundred (100)
square feet in area, nor shall two (2) or more signs be so arranged and
integrated as to cause an advertising surface over one hundred (100) square
feet.
            (2)   Where a Business Zoning District includes a theater,
additional sign surface area may be permitted for the exclusive use of the
theater. The total aggregate surface area permitted for theaters including any
pylon, marquee or other signage shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet.
         b.   [B-2]: Within the B-2 Zoning District, the aggregate square
footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed the sum of one (1) square foot
per front foot of building plus one (1) square foot for each front foot of lot
not occupied by a building. No individual sign shall exceed 50 square feet in a
B-2 area.
      2.   Pylon Or Monument Sign. The erection of one (1) pylon or monument
type sign for any single lot in the [B-1, B-2, and Industrial] Zoning Districts
is permitted under the following provisions:
         a.   A pylon or monument sign in the [B-2] Districts shall not be
higher than twenty feet (20'); and those in the [B-1 and Industrial] Districts
may not be higher than twenty-five feet (25') above the average grade level at
the base of the sign.
         b.   No part of the pylon or monument sign in any Business or
Industrial Zoning District may be less than 10 feet from lot lines or less than
five feet (5') from any driveway or parking area.
         c.   The maximum gross area of any surface of a pylon or monument sign
in the [B-2] Zoning District is 80 square feet; and the maximum gross area of
any surface in the B-2 or I Zoning District is 100 square feet.
      3.   Murals or Similar Wall Sign Displays. A mural or wall sign display
including lettering, graphics or other promotions of the business may be
permitted with an Interim Use Permit. The design must promote a business that
is operational within the structure and may not promote or advertise a specific
product.
      4.   Electronic Displays at Motor Fuel Stations. Electronic displays,
including light emitting diodes (LED), or similar technologies may be permitted
at motor fuel stations under the following conditions:
         a.   The characters in an electronic display must be a uniform color.
         b.   Any electronic display may contain a maximum of four (4)
characters.
         c.   The maximum total area for an electronic display is six (6)
square feet.
         d.   The text of the sign may not change more than three (3) times in
a day (24 hours).
         e.   The electronic display shall be allowed only during the hours of
operation approved in the Conditional Use Permit for the motor fuel station.
         f.   Any existing motor fuel station seeking a permit for electronic
display of fuel prices must obtain an amendment to their Conditional Use
Permit.
      5.   Comprehensive Sign Plan. A comprehensive sign plan shall be provided
for industrial developments. Such plan, which must include the location, size,
height, lighting and orientation of all signs must be submitted to the Planning
Commission for preliminary plan approval regulations. Provided such a
comprehensive plan is presented, exceptions to the sign performance standards
of this Chapter may be permitted if sign areas and densities for the plan as a
whole are in conformity with the intent of this Chapter and if such exception
results in an improved relationship between the various parts of the plan.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (RE, R-1, R-2 AND R-3)
SECTION:
12-4B-1: Lot And Building Provisions
12-4B-2: Single-Family Detached And Attached Building Requirements
12-4B-3: Attached And Multi-Family Residential Building Requirements
12-4B-4: Outside Storage Of Personal Recreational Equipment In Residential
Districts
12-4B-1: LOT AND BUILDING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to define existing lots of
record and to establish the orientation and general development of a lot used
for residential purposes.
   B.   Existing Lot of Record, Buildable. A lot of record existing upon the
effective date of this Chapter in a Residential Base Zoning District, that does
not meet the criteria established in Section [12-2B-3 Subd. D], may be used for
a single-family detached dwelling, provided that the measurements of such area
or width meet a minimum of 70 percent of the requirements of the Base Zoning
District in which the lot is located. The lot of record may not be developed
more intensely than permitted by the Base Zoning District unless combined with
one or more abutting lots, or portions thereof, and the resulting lot meets the
requirements of the Base Zoning District.
   C.   Buildings on a Lot. Except in the case of planned unit developments and
multi-family development as provided for in subsequent sections, each lot may
contain a maximum of one principal building.
   D.   Orientation of Principal Building. If a Principal Building is visible
from the public right-of-way, it must be constructed to follow the Character
standards of the Base Zoning District in which the structure is located.
   E.   Through Lots. On a through lot, both street public right-of-way lines
shall be front lot lines for applying the yard requirements and parking
regulations of the Base Zoning District in which the lot is located. (Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
12-4B-2: SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED AND ATTACHED BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish general standards
for single-family detached and single-family attached buildings to support and
maintain the character of the neighborhood. The following standards are
established.
   B.   Single-Family Attached and Detached Buildings.
      1.   Building Standards.
         a.   Floor Area. All single-family dwellings, with the exception of
earth sheltered homes, must contain a minimum of 1,000 square feet of usable
floor area above grade.
         b.   Dimensions. Single-family detached buildings must contain a
minimum of 20-feet in width, exclusive of porches and other projections.
Single-family attached buildings must contain a minimum of 10 feet in width,
exclusive of porches and other projections. The maximum length dimension must
not exceed three (3) times the width dimension.
         c.   Basements Required. All single-family detached buildings must
have a basement or an exposed basement under at least 50 percent of the first-
floor level. A slab-on-grade home may be permitted with a Conditional Use
Permit.
         d.   Private Attached Garage Required. One single-level garage with a
minimum floor area of 440 square feet is required for any detached single-
family building. All single-family attached buildings must contain a single-
level garage with a minimum floor area of 220 square feet.
         e.   Pitch of Roofs. With the exception of earth sheltered homes, all
residential structures must have a pitched roof of at least 3:12 and a maximum
of 9:12.
            (1)   Exception. A two-story home may have a roof that is less than
3:12, or a flat roof.
         f.   First Floor Elevation.
            (1)   Construction, including tear-down and redevelopment, of new
single-family dwellings and additions, modifications, and alterations to
existing dwellings may not raise the first floor elevation more than one foot
(1') above the existing condition unless a Conditional Use Permit is obtained
[See Subsection 3.]
            (2)   In the case of a split-level dwelling, the existing first
floor elevation is the lowest elevation of an entrance to the dwelling,
excluding entrances to the garage and those that do not face the street.
            (3)   By Conditional Use Permit, the first floor elevation may be
increased by more than one foot (1') from the existing condition in order to
meet one or more of the following conditions:
               (A)   Elevate the lowest level of the dwelling to an elevation
of two feet (2') above the 100-year flood elevation, as established by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
               (B)    Protect the dwelling from groundwater intrusion. Existing
groundwater elevation shall be determined by a professional registered engineer
in the state of Minnesota or by a certified hydrologist, and the results
provided for review and consideration.
               (C)   Meet State Building Code, City Code or other statutory
requirements.
               (D)   Comply with standard engineering practices, including, but
not limited to, grading, drainage, access, or utility connection at the
direction of the Public Works Director.
      2.   Driveways And Parking Areas.
         a.   A Driveway Permit is required.
         b.   All curb cuts for driveways in connection with single-family
detached and single-family attached dwellings must conform with this Chapter
and the specifications set forth on City driveway detail sheets. A plan showing
proposed curb cuts and driveway location and design must be submitted for all
new or reconstructed driveways.
         c.   All driveways, required off-street parking spaces, and other
areas intended to be utilized primarily for parking purposes must be surfaced
with concrete or bituminous surfaces.
         d.   Driveways must be a minimum of five feet (5') from side lot lines
and a maximum of 25-feet wide where the driveway intersects the right-of-way
line.
   All driveways constructed to serve single-family dwellings on corner lots
must be set back a minimum of 30-feet from the property lines adjacent to the
street corner. A Variance is not required if an existing driveway that was
conforming at the time of construction that violates these setback requirements
is reconstructed in the same location as the original driveway, including
pavement and base material, provided a proper construction permit is obtained
from the City. (See Figure [12-4B-2.1])
   Figure 12-4B-2.1 Driveway Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2671.png]
      3.    Landscape Standards. All single-family detached or attached lots
must comply with the following landscape standards.
         a.    New construction, including teardown and reconstruction, of
single-family detached or attached structures are required to plant a minimum
of one overstory deciduous tree per 50-feet of lineal frontage of public
street. The required trees must be planted in the front yard of the lot. A list
or reference of trees that meet this requirement are contained within Title 15.
Environmental Standards of the City Code.
         b.   All lots must be planted with an acceptable ground cover, or a
landscape plan must be submitted for review and approval by the Natural
Resources Commission, as defined in Title 15. Environmental Standards.
         c.   All retaining walls, gazebos, or other landscape structures as
defined in
12-3B-1.1 Table of Uses  for Accessory Uses must comply with all setback
requirements and must obtain an Administrative Permit.
      4.   Screening of Certain Materials. All waste material, debris, refuse,
garbage, fuel including woodpiles of two (2) cords or larger (a cord is 4 feet
x 4 feet x 8 feet), or materials not currently in use for construction must be
stored indoors or totally screened from the eye level view from the public
right-of-way and any adjacent properties.
      5.   Construction and Building Plans.
         a.   Any construction of a new detached or attached single-family
building must obtain a Building Permit. The Building Permit must be accompanied
by a Site Plan and any other information necessary to confirm that the building
complies with the Base Zoning District in which it is located. Single-family
attached buildings must comply with the standards established in Section [
12-4B-3 ] of this Chapter.
         b.   All construction activities, including additions to existing
structures, are required to comply with the requirements below. Failure to
comply with any of the requirements may result in issuance of stop work orders,
fines, revocation of contractor licenses, and enforcement of the penalty
provisions in Section [
12-5E-2 ] of this Zoning Ordinance.
            (1)   Hours of operation for exterior construction activities are
limited to seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. Monday
through Friday and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on
weekends.
            (2)   An erosion and sediment control plan must be approved by the
Public Works Director to be implemented and properly maintained at all times,
in accordance with Title [14, Chapter 1] of this Code the City’s land
disturbance guidance document.
            (3)   Streets and surrounding properties shall be free of debris
and mud at the end of each workday.
            (4)   Dumpsters placed on site for more than ten (10) consecutive
days during construction activities must be covered or have lids that close and
secure to contain debris.
            (5)   Storage of construction and landscaping materials, dumpsters,
portable restroom facilities, and other equipment within the right-of-way is
prohibited.
            (6)   The permit holder must repair any damage to public or private
property within three (3) working days from a notice being issued by the City.
            (7)   Contractor vehicle parking is limited to one side of the
street to allow adequate space for two-way traffic, emergency service vehicles,
and City maintenance vehicles. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4B-3: ATTACHED AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish standards for
multi-family buildings and their lots to ensure that multi-family buildings are
compatible with surrounding developments and neighborhoods. The following
standards are established.
   B.   Building Standards. In any multi-family building that contains more
than five (5) attached dwelling units each unit must comply with the minimum
Floor Area requirements established in Table [12-4B-3.1].
 
Table 12-4B-3.1. Minimum Floor Area by Unit Type
Unit Type        Minimum Floor Area
Efficiency units Not allowed
1 bedroom units  700 square feet
2 bedroom units  800 square feet
3 bedroom units  1,000 square feet
 
   C.   The minimum lot area per unit is regulated by Base Zoning District
contained in Chapter 2 of this Zoning Ordinance. The total minimum lot area
required may be decreased by 300 square feet for each parking space that is
provided underground to serve a multi-family building.
   D.   Off-Street Parking Requirements for Multi-Family Buildings. In addition
to the applicable provisions of [
12-4A-9 ] of this Chapter the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Number and Design of Parking Spaces. A minimum of one (1) parking
space per unit must be fully enclosed. Parking spaces must comply with all
parking regulations for size, location, and other standards.
      2.   Setbacks. Surface parking lots, or other unenclosed parking spaces,
must be setback a minimum of 40-feet from the public right-of-way. Surface
parking areas must be setback a minimum of 10-feet from any principal building.
      3.   Driveways And Aisles.
         a.   Driveways shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any street
intersection.
         b.   Screening. Parking areas which serve buildings housing three (3)
or more dwelling units which are contiguous to or across a street from single-
or two-family units must be screened with a four-foot (4') wall of masonry or
wood. Such wall shall be at least 85 percent opaque.
   E.   Architecture and Building Design Standards. The following minimum
design standards are established for multi-family buildings:
      1.   Design Standards.
         a.   All multi-family buildings must be designed and constructed with
four-sided architecture.
         b.   The exterior façade of any multi-family building must be designed
to eliminate large blank or expansive walls without architectural detail or
interest. Each building must include, at a minimum, some articulation or detail
between floors that may include changes in materials, color, balconies or other
architectural details.
         c.   No wall may extend more than 40-feet without a plane or material
break. If a plane break is designed, it must include a minimum of one (1) foot
of relief between the planes.
         d.   Each building must include a clear entry and front façade. Such
entry must be clearly articulated and facing the primary above ground access.
         e.   All accessory or ancillary buildings including garages must be
designed and constructed with facing materials of the same quality as those
used in the Principal Building.
      2.    Construction and Building Plans.
         a.   Any multi-family buildings must be constructed only in
conformance to building and site plans certified by a registered architect. The
Site Plan may be prepared by a professional site planner, but a registered
architect must certify that they have personally reviewed the site and designed
the proposed buildings in accordance with the Site Plan, the terrain and
neighboring conditions. The following plans must be submitted, reviewed and
approved prior to a Building Permit being granted:
            (1)   Complete details of the proposed site development, including
location of buildings, driveways, parking spaces, dimensions of the lot, lot
area and yard dimensions.
            (2)   Complete plans for proposed sidewalks to service parking,
recreation and service areas within the proposed development.
            (3)   Complete plans for stormwater drainage systems sufficient to
drain and dispose of all surface water accumulations within the development
area.
            (4)   Complete structural, electrical and mechanical plans for the
proposed building(s).
            (5)   Complete plans and specifications for exterior wall finishes
proposed for all principal and accessory structures.
         b.   Landscape Standards. Any new multi-family development or PUD
including multi-family attached units must comply with the landscape standards
as established in Section [
12-4A-5 ] Landscape Requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4B-4: OUTSIDE STORAGE OF PERSONAL RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT IN RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the unenclosed
storage of Personal Recreational Equipment on a residential lot. The following
standards are established for all principal residential uses within the RE, R-
1, and R-2 Zoning District.
   B.   General Provisions. The outside storage of recreational equipment is
permitted in a maximum of one side yard, or in a rear yard in all Residential
Base Zoning Districts; provided, that the following conditions are met:
      1.   Any storage in a side yard shall not be adjacent to a public right-
of-way unless the exceptions as noted in subsection C are met; and
      2.   Outside of all required yard setbacks.
      3.   Outside storage of vehicles and recreational equipment not
originally constructed for recreational use are not be permitted.
      4.   The storage of recreational vehicles must comply with the standards
of the Property Maintenance Code.
   C.   Exception for Corner Lot. Recreational equipment may be stored in a
side yard abutting a right-of-way provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   There is not adequate area on the interior side yard to store the
equipment, or construct a driveway, and meet the required yard setback.
      2.   The storage area must be fully screened from the right-of-way by
either an opaque fence or coniferous vegetation.
   D.   Personal Recreational Equipment shall include the following:
      1.   Boats and canoes.
      2.   All-terrain vehicles.
      3.   Trailers for the transportation of boats, canoes and all-terrain
vehicles.
      4.   All motor vehicles designed, constructed, or used to provide
temporary, movable living quarters for recreational use.
      5.   Travel trailers.
      6.   Snowmobiles.
      7.   Utility trailers.
   E.   Parking and Storage of Recreational Camping Vehicles. The following
additional standards for personal Recreational Camping Vehicles are
established:
      1.   The Recreational Camping Vehicle must be parked on a paved surface.
      2.   In the case of a residential subdivision surrounding a lake or pond,
rear yard storage is prohibited where neighbors can see it from across the
water unless it is adequately screened.
      3.   All Recreational Camping Vehicles stored or parked outside must be
adequately screened from abutting residential properties.
      4.   Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person to park or store a
recreational camping vehicle:
         a.   On a residential driveway when the recreational vehicle is
greater than ten feet (10') in height, 23-feet in length or 6,500 pounds.
         b.   On a public street or in a public right-of-way.
      5.   Exceptions; Special Temporary Permit.
         a.   A special temporary permit may be issued by the City for the
temporary parking of one mobile home or recreational camping vehicle on a
residential driveway for a period not to exceed ten (10) days.
         b.   No more than four (4) permits per year may be issued to any one
residence and cannot be issued consecutively (there must be at least 14 days
between permits).
         c.   Vehicles parked on the driveway must be placed 15-feet from the
roadway to allow for visibility of traffic, and vehicles must have a permit.
         d.   Vehicles stored outside must be licensed and operable. (Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
ARTICLE C. STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4C-1: Public Semi-Public Overlay District (PSP-O)
12-4C-2: Floodplain Overlay District (FP-O)
12-4C-1: PUBLIC SEMI-PUBLIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (PSP-O):
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to describe the standards and
flexibility from the Base Zoning District standards for properties located in
the Public Semi-Public Overlay district.
   B.   Applicability. All uses and standards established in the Base Zoning
District shall apply, and the areas of flexibility identified herein shall only
apply to those uses categorized on
Table [12-3B-1.1]. Table of Uses  as “Public/Semi-Public Uses.”
   C.   Yard Setback Provisions.
      1.   All Principal Buildings and Accessory Buildings must comply with the
setback standards established in Chapter 2 of the applicable Base Zoning
District, and Chapter 3, whichever is more restrictive. Any proposed deviation
from the required setbacks shall require a Conditional Use Permit.
   D.   Design and Building Standards.
      1.   Minimum Lot Size: 1.0 Acres
      2.   Height: The maximum height of a Principal Building for an
established PSP-O use determined by the Base Zoning District height
requirements. A Principal Building that exceeds the height of the Base Zoning
District, up to a maximum of 40 feet, is permitted by Conditional Use Permit.
      3.   Accessory Structures: All accessory buildings must comply with the
Base Zoning District standards, unless a Conditional Use Permit is obtained.
         a.   Accessory Buildings must be designed to be compatible with the
design and character of the Principal Building.
         b.   Accessory Buildings must be accessory to the Principal Building.
If no Principal Building is present, a Conditional Use Permit must be obtained.
      4.   Screening or Buffering. Screening from Residential Base Zoning
District. A screening plan is required along the property line of any PSP-
O district that abuts a Residential Base Zoning District, unless the owner can
demonstrate that there is no adverse impact to the residential use. (Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
12-4C-2: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP-O):
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish that certain lands
in the City are located within a Floodway, Flood Fringe which is commonly
referred to as the Floodplain. Land that is located within the Floodplain
Overlay District are subject to additional standards and regulations.
   B.   Applicability. The Floodplain Overlay District standards are applicable
to that portion of a property, lot, or land that is contained within the mapped
floodplain area established by FEMA. Land within the FP-O is regulated by the
Base Zoning District in which the property is located and is subject to the FP-
O standards, and the more restrictive standards shall apply.
      1.   The FP-O District standards and regulations are established in Title
15. Environmental Standards. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE D. STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO BUSINESS, INDUSTRIAL AND PUBLIC SEMI-PUBLIC
USES
SECTION:
12-4D-1: Lot And Building Standards
12-4D-2: Screening
12-4D-3: Lighting
12-4D-1: LOT AND BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish general lot and
building standards for all non-residential buildings in the City.
   B.   Applicability. The following standards are applicable to all properties
within the B-1, B-2, Industrial and PSP Zoning Districts. The standards are
also applicable to any Principal non-residential uses in a Base Residential
Zoning District.
   C.   Corner Lots. On a corner lot, each side abutting a public street right-
of-way is determined to be a front yard and the use must comply with the
applicable setback requirements established in the Base Zoning District in
which the property is located.
   D.   Building Design and Construction. All buildings or structures must meet
the following standards:
      1.   Exterior Surfaces, Including Roofs. Buildings must be finished on
all sides with permanent finished materials of a quality consistent with the
standards set in the Base Zoning District in which it is located. Exterior wall
surfaces must comprised of one or more of the following:
         a.   Face brick or natural stone.
            (1)   Professionally designed precast concrete units, if the
surfaces have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or
texture, or
            (2)   Decorative block, if incorporated in a building design which
is compatible (in terms of exterior design, materials, and colors) with other
development throughout the Zoning District.
         b.   Factory fabricated and finished metal framed modular panel
construction, if the panel materials are any of those listed in Subsection
[C1a] of this Section, glass, prefinished metal (other than unpainted
galvanized iron) or plastic used in accordance with the Building Code
requirements.
         c.   No building exterior shall be constructed of sheet aluminum,
asbestos, iron, steel, or corrugated aluminum.
         d.   Any proposed deviation from these standards shall require a
variance.
      2.   Subsequent Additions and Other Structures. Subsequent additions and
other buildings or structures constructed after the erection of the original
building or structure shall be constructed of materials comparable in quality
and appearance to those used in the original construction, and must be designed
consistent with the original architectural design and general appearance.
      3.   Accessory Buildings; Walls. Garages, Accessory Buildings, screen
walls, and exposed areas of retaining walls must be of a similar type, quality
and appearance as the Principal Building.
      4.   Compatibility with other Buildings. All buildings must be compatible
(in terms of exterior design, materials, and colors) with the character of the
other structures and buildings in the surrounding area.
      5.   Off-Street Parking and Loading. Design and maintenance of off-street
parking and loading areas must comply with [Section
12-4A-7  and
12-4A-9 ] of this Chapter.
      6.   Storage of Materials.
         a.   All trash and trash handling equipment shall be stored within the
Principal Building or within an attached Accessory Building that is accessible
from the inside of the Principal Building.
         b.   No outdoor storage of either materials or products is permitted,
except if approved by a Conditional Use Permit or where expressly allowed in
the Base Zoning District.
      7.   Screening of Mechanical Utilities. Whenever possible, rooftop
mechanical units must be a low profile design. All ground level and rooftop
mechanical utilities, other than low profile rooftop units, must be completely
screened with one or more of the materials used in the construction of the
Principal Building. Where practicable, rooftop screening shall be accomplished
through the use of parapet walls.
      8.   Screening of Vehicle Lights. The light from automobile headlights
and any other sources on a site must be screened if through regular site use
and operations such light is directed onto or at abutting residential uses.
Screening must comply with the standards in Section [12-4D-2].
   E.   Industrial (I) Zoning District Requirements.
      1.   No development of any lot or combination of lots in the Industrial
Base Zoning District may be commenced and no Building Permit will be issued
until all of the following requirements have been met:
         a.   Plan and Specifications.
            (1)   Site Plan, Building Plans, and Specifications. A complete
Site Plan, building plans and specifications prepared by a registered architect
shall be submitted for review and approval. The architect must certify that the
plans were prepared specifically for the subject site. The Site Plan must
include the location of buildings, driveways, driveway intersections with
streets, parking areas, loading areas, sidewalks, curbs, and screening as
required by this Chapter.
            (2)   Grading Plans. Site grading plans must be submitted
indicating existing and proposed grades and provisions for surface drainage.
            (3)   Signs. Proposed design, location, size and lighting of all
signs, if any, must be submitted.
            (4)   Landscaping Plans. Landscape Plans consistent with the
requirements of Section [
12-4A-5 ] of this Chapter.
            (5)   Additional Materials. Plans and specifications shall include
any additional material required by the City to ascertain compliance with the
performance standards specified in this Chapter and any other requirements of
this Zoning Ordinance.
         b.   Bond. A bond or bonds guaranteeing performance of construction
elements required to comply with this Chapter shall be given in amounts
determined by the City to be sufficient to reasonably ensure compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Site and Structure Requirements.
         a.   Yards where Railroad Tracks abut a Lot. Where a lot has a
railroad trackage abutting the interior side lot line or rear lot line, there
shall be no side or rear yard requirement abutting the trackage in providing a
railroad loading facility.
         b.   Fences for Industrial Base Zoning District abutting a Residential
Base Zoning District. Whenever a property zoned Industrial abuts a Residential
Base Zoning District, a fence must be erected along the property line that may
be 100 percent opaque with a maximum height of six feet (6'). (Ord. 592, 9-17-
2024)
12-4D-2: SCREENING:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish standards that
mitigate the potential adverse impact between properties where the uses may not
be compatible without some visual buffering or screening.
   B.   General Provisions.
      1.   Opacity of Screening and/or Buffering. All required screening or
buffering identified in this Chapter may be achieved with fences, walls, earth
berms, hedges or other landscape materials. The required screen must provide
the minimum opacity established in the applicable Section, and if not clearly
stated, must provide a minimum opacity of 90 percent during all seasons.
      2.   Screening or Buffering Required.
         a.   Principal buildings, and any Accessory Building or structure used
for business or industrial use must provide a buffer along the adjacent
property line of any Residential Base Zoning District.
         b.   Off-street parking facilities containing six (6) or more spaces
located within 50 feet of a right-of-way or abutting any Residential Base
Zoning District must install a buffer/screen along the property line.
         c.   Outside storage that is allowed by other provisions of this
Chapter must provide a buffer to screen the outdoor storage area from the
public right-of-way or any abutting Residential Base Zoning District.
         d.   External loading and service areas must be completely screened
from the ground level view from contiguous properties and the public right-of-
way, except at driveway access points.
      3.   Slope Of Berms. Earth berms shall not exceed a slope of three to one
(3:1). (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-4D-3: LIGHTING:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to regulate the placement and
intensity of light fixtures in the non-residential zoning and districts and
non-residential uses in the City. The following standards are established.
   B.   Light Spillage at Property Line. Light fixtures that are used for
illuminating parking areas, loading areas or storage yards or for safety and
security purposes may not exceed the following values:
      1.   A reading of 0.2 foot-candle at the property line if the abutting
use is a commercial or industrial use or public right-of-way.
      2.   A reading of zero (0) foot-candles at the property line if the
abutting use is Residential or if the abutting property is a Residential Base
Zoning District.
      3.   A photometric plan may be requested to demonstrate compliance with
the standards stated in this Section.
   C.   Fixture Type. The following standards shall apply to all fixtures:
      1.   All fixtures must be hooded and downcast.
      2.   Any pole or structure on which a light is affixed may not exceed 24
feet in height unless a Conditional Use Permit is obtained. (Ord. 592, 9-17-
2024)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION AND CONFORMANCE
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-5A-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
12-5A-2: Duties Of A Zoning Administrator
12-5A-3: Appeal Of Zoning Administrator Decision
12-5A-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
This Chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator,
Public Works Director, City Attorney, Planning Commission and City Council as
described herein. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5A-2: DUTIES OF A ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this Zoning Ordinance and require that:
   A.   All Building Permits are reviewed by the Building Official, and as
necessary the Zoning Administrator, to determine compliance with the terms of
this Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Inspections of buildings and use of land are conducted by the Building
Official, and as necessary Zoning Administrator, to determine compliance with
the terms of this Zoning Ordinance.
   C.   Permanent and current records of this Zoning Ordinance are maintained,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, Conditional Uses,
Variances, and any Appeals and Land Use Applications.
   D.   All applications for Appeals, Variances, Conditional Uses, or other
matters are received, dated, filed and forwarded to the designated City
Officials.
   E.   The Zoning Administrator or the City Attorney shall institute in the
name of the City appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator of this
Zoning Ordinance as provided by law. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5A-3: APPEAL OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR DECISION:
   A.   Board of Appeals to Zoning Administrator Decision. The Planning
Commission is designated as the Board of Zoning Appeals for any appeal of a
decision made by the Zoning Administrator. The Board of Zoning Appeals must
make a determination that is consistent with this Zoning Ordinance and the
adopted Comprehensive Plan. Such appeals are limited to final decisions
authorized to be made by the Zoning Administrator, such as: appeal the location
of the boundary of a Zoning District as shown on the Zoning Map, an order, a
permit, specific requirements or zoning related decisions.
   B.   Time For Filing Appeal. An appeal to a decision made by the Zoning
Administrator must be filed within 90 days. The Applicant, Owner, other
interested person, or officer of the City affected by the decision may appeal
to the Planning Commission by filing a written notice stating the action and
the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made. Such time limit does not
apply to any prosecution for violation of this Zoning Ordinance.
   C.   Hearings. The Planning Commission, as the Board of Zoning Appeals, may
conduct a hearing as it determines is necessary and will determine what notice,
if any, shall be given of such hearing.
   D.   City Council Action.
      1.   The City Council may review and revise any decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals. In reviewing such decisions, the City Council shall set a date
for hearing no earlier than seven (7) days or more than 30 days after the
decision is made by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      2.   Notice of the hearing before the City Council shall be mailed to all
appellants. Any appeals that involve a Zoning District boundary lines
determination or interpretation of the text of this Zoning Ordinance, must
follow the procedure for a public hearing that requires a minimum of 10-day
notice to be published in the official newspaper and individual notification to
property owners within 350-feet of the property. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. COMMON STANDARDS OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS
SECTION:
12-5B-1: Purpose And Applicability
12-5B-2: Comprehensive Plan Amendment
12-5B-3: Zoning Amendment (Text Or Map)
12-5B-4: Site Plan
12-5B-5: Conditional Uses
12-5B-6: Interim Uses
12-5B-7: Variances
12-5B-8: Planned Unit Development
12-5B-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish the general
process and procedures for all Land Use Applications that are contained within
this Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Applicability. This Section shall apply to all Land Use Applications in
the City. Table [12-5B-1.1] Land Use Application Review Procedures provides the
requirements and standards for each type of application. The table provides a
reference to the subdivision and/or platting requirements for reference because
certain land use applications such as Planned Unit Development may include a
request to plat.
[Table 12-5B-1.1]. Land Use Application Review Procedures
                                              If City Council is checked,
Procedure Public Hearing 15.99 462.358 (Plat) they are the final decision-
                                              making body.
Land Use Application                          Staff Planning   City Council
                                                    Commission
[Table 12-5B-1.1]. Land Use Application Review Procedures
               Public                       If City Council is checked,
Procedure      Hearing 15.99 462.358 (Plat) they are the final decision-
                                            making body.
Land Use Application                        Staff Planning   City Council
                                                  Commission
Administrative         X                    X
Permit
Appeal to
Administrative                                    X          X
Decision
Comprehensive
Plan Amendment X       X                    X     X          X
(Text or Map)
Conditional    X       X                    X     X          X
Use Permit
Interim Use    X       X                    X     X          X
Permit
MRRCA Permit
Administrative         X                    X                X
Full Review    X       X                    X     X          X
Planned Unit
Development
Concept Plan           X                    X     X          X
Preliminary    X       X     X              X     X          X
Development
Final                  X     X              X     X          X
Development
Site Plan
Minor                  X                    X
Major                  X                    X     X          X
Variance       X       X                    X     X          X
Zoning
Amendment      X       X                    X     X          X
(Text or Map)
Subdivision
Application
Lot
Consolidation/ X       X                    X     X          X
Lot Line
Adjustment
Minor
Subdivision    X             X              X     X          X
(if plat)
Major
Subdivision    X             X              X     X          X
(if plat)
Other
Applications
Environmental                               X     X          X
Review
 
   C.   Minnesota State Statutory Review Procedures for Land Use Applications
and Subdivision. As identified in Table [12-5B-1.1]. Land Use Application
Review Procedures, certain land use applications are subject to the rules of
procedure and deadlines for action as established within Minnesota State
Statutes. The City Council shall follow the rules and requirements as
established by the Minnesota State Statute which may be updated from time to
time. The following summary of current statutory requirements is provided.
      1.   Minnesota State Statute 15.99. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 15.99,
a land use application shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date
of its official and complete submission unless extended pursuant to Statute or
a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Pursuant to Minnesota Statues 15.99,
the City staff is hereby authorized to extend the 60-day time limit by one time
period not to exceed 60 additional days, provided written notice of such
extension is provided to the applicant before the end of the initial 60-day
period. Extensions may also be requested by the applicant.
      2.   Minnesota State Statute 462.358. An application for preliminary plat
shall be approved or denied within 120 days from the date of a complete
submission unless a time waiver is granted by the applicant. A preliminary plat
may be approved with conditions or denied with written findings. An application
for final plat, shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of the
complete submission unless a time waiver is granted by the applicant.
   D.   Common Procedures for Land Use Applications. The following common
procedures are established for any Land Use Application that is subject to
Minnesota State Statute 15.99 that requires the action of the City Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2673.png]
 
      1.   The Applicant may request a pre-application with the Zoning
Administrator to discuss the proposed project or application.
      2.   The Applicant must submit the Land Use Application using the
official forms provided by the City, the materials as required on the specific
Land Use Application checklist and the appropriate fees and escrow must
accompany the submission.
      3.   The Zoning Administrator, and other City Staff, will perform a
review of all submitted materials to determine the completeness of the
application. Once an application has been deemed complete, the staff will
prepare a review and analysis of the application for consistency with the
City’s ordinances.
      4.   If a public hearing is required, notice of the public hearing will
include a description of the request. Notice must be published in the official
newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing and written notification of
said hearing must be mailed at least 10 days prior to all owners of land within
350-feet of the property boundary of the proposed application. Failure of a
property owner to receive said notice(s) shall not invalidate any proceedings
as set forth in this Section.
      5.   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate City Staff
to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and to provide general
assistance in preparing the staff report and recommendation of the action to
the Planning Commission and City Council.
      6.   The City Staff, Planning Commission and City Council have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant or two obtain
expert testimony with the consent, and at the expense, of the Applicant if
additional information is necessary to establish compatibility with the
Comprehensive Plan and applicable sections of this Zoning Ordinance.
      7.   The applicant or a representative may appear before the Planning
Commission to present information and answer questions concerning the proposed
request.
      8.   The Planning Commission shall hold the official Public Hearing, if
required as indicated on
Table [12-5B-1.1 ]
      9.   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation stating its
findings and any conditions of the application to the City Council.
      10.   The City Council shall consider the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, and the City Staff report and by resolution, make its decision.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT:
   A.   Purpose of Comprehensive Plan. The Comprehensive Plan for the City
contains objectives, policies, standards and programs to guide public and
private land use, development, redevelopment and preservation for all lands and
waters within the City. The Land Use Plan designates the existing and proposed
location, intensity and extent of use of land for agricultural, residential,
commercial, industrial and other public and private uses.
   B.   Vote Required for Approval. The City Council may, by an affirmative
vote of four-fifths (4/5) of all members thereof, adopt amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan.
   C.   Initiation of Amendment. Proceedings for Comprehensive Plan Amendment
shall be initiated by a petition of the Owner(s) of the actual property. The
petition must describe the proposed change of use or proposed modification to
the Comprehensive Plan. The Planning Commission or the City Council may also
initiate a proposed change to the Comprehensive Plan, and the purpose for such
proposed change must also be identified.
   D.   Application for Amendment.
      1.   Filing Of Application. All applications for a Comprehensive Plan
Amendment which are initiated by the petition of the Owner(s) of a property
must be filed in the Office of the City Clerk.
      2.   Sketch Plan.
         a.   An application for Comprehensive Plan Amendment must include a
Sketch Plan, as described in Subsection [b.] if the proposed amendment
addresses the potential development of a specific parcel of land.
            (1)   Copies: The Sketch Plan must be drawn to-scale and must be
scalable. One electronic copy and one (1) half-scale 11"x17" hard copy must be
submitted along with the official Planning Application form.
         b.   The maps which are part of the Sketch Plan may be in general
schematic form, and must contain the following information:
            (1)   The existing topography of the land.
            (2)   Existing and proposed land uses and the approximate location
of buildings, utilities, and unique development features of the site.
            (3)   The location of roads and major thoroughfares and proposed
access location.
            (4)   Public uses, including schools, parks, playgrounds, and other
open spaces, if applicable.
            (5)   Map with all adjacent parcels or lots that demonstrates how
the proposed amendment is compatible with adjoining uses (both existing and
proposed).
         c.   A narrative must be submitted with the Sketch Plan. The narrative
must contain the following information:
            (1)   An explanation of the character of the proposed use of the
property.
            (2)   A statement of proposed financing for development of the
property.
            (3)   A statement of the present ownership of all of the property
in question.
            (4)   A general indication of the expected schedule of development
including progressive phasing and time schedules, if applicable.
            (5)   The character and density of dwelling units, if residential
development is proposed.
            (6)   Estimated industrial acreage and projected employment, if
industrial development is proposed.
            (7)   Estimated square footage of commercial development, if
commercial development is proposed.
            (8)   Estimated amount of open space, if proposed.
   E.   Referral to Planning Commission by City Council. A request for a
Comprehensive Plan Amendment may be initiated by Resolution of the City Council
by referring such request to the Planning Commission.
   F.   Planning Commission Hearing and Recommendation. The Planning Commission
shall make a written report to the City Council stating its findings and
recommendations. The City Council may request further information and report
from the Planning Commission.
   G.   Action By City Council.
      1.   The City Council shall not amend the Comprehensive Plan without
having first referred it to the Planning Commission.
      2.   If the Planning Commission fails to make a report and recommendation
to the City Council within 60 days after referral of the application, the City
Council may take action without further awaiting such recommendation.
      3.   The City Council may, by resolution adopted by an affirmative vote
of four-fifths (4/5) of its members, adopt and amend the Comprehensive Plan or
portion thereof so recommended.
      4.   The City Council may not officially enact any Comprehensive Plan
Amendment until the official review of the Metropolitan Council is complete and
authorization is provided to enact the Amendment.
   H.   Comprehensive Plan Supersedes Zoning Ordinance. Until such time as this
Zoning Ordinance is amended to conform to the Comprehensive Plan, the
Comprehensive Plan shall supersede the provision herein if there is a conflict
between the adopted Future Land Use Plan contained in the Comprehensive Plan
and the Official Zoning Map. The City Council shall take no action in amending
this Zoning Ordinance in a manner inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-3: ZONING AMENDMENT (TEXT OR MAP):
   A.   Purpose of Zoning Amendment (Text of Map). An application to amend this
Zoning Ordinance or official Zoning Map allows an Owner or the City to request
consideration to modify or change the language or map related to specific
property within the City. All requests must be accompanied by a purpose or
reason that such request is made and how such request is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Vote Required for Approval. The City Council may, by a simple majority
vote of all members, adopt amendments to the Zoning Ordinance; except, that
where an amendment changes all or part of an existing Zoning District
classification from residential to either commercial or industrial, a four-
fifths (4/5) majority vote of all City Council members is required.
   C.   Initiation of Amendment. An application to amend this Zoning Ordinance
may be initiated by either a petition of the Owner(s) of property, or by a
recommendation of the Planning Commission, or by resolution of the City
Council.
   D.   Application for Amendment. All applications for amendment that are
initiated by the Owner(s) of property must be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and must state the reason for the proposed amendment. All
applications for a Zoning Amendment must follow the process as established in
Section [12-5B-1D].
   E.   Planning Commission Hearing and Recommendation. The Planning Commission
shall submit a written report to the City Council stating its findings and
recommendations.
   F.   Action By City Council.
      1.   Failure of the Planning Commission to submit a report as described
shall not invalidate the proceedings or action of the City Council.
      2.   At the time of consideration, the City Council may take final action
upon the application, or it may continue the discussion for further
investigation provided such action complies with subsection [
12-5B-1 C] regarding the applicable State Statutes and ordinances.
      3.   The City Council may also request further information and a report
from the Planning Commission. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-4: SITE PLAN:
   A.   Purpose. Most of the Land Use Applications described in this Chapter
propose to alter, use, or develop property, lots or land in the City. The Site
Plan Review process will ensure that the proposed use and development of land
complies with the standards and regulations established in this Zoning
Ordinance.
   B.   Applicability. The Site Plan review process shall apply to any
development of land located within an Overlay District, or that is proposed for
commercial, industrial or multi-family uses. The Site Plan review process may
be required and/or submitted as part of another Land Use Application process,
and in such cases shall follow the primary land use application process. All
applications for Site Plan will be classified as a Minor Site Plan review or a
Major Site Plan review as follows:
      1.   Minor Site Plan. The Minor Site Plan process applies to any
application that complies with the applicable Base Zoning District and does not
require a Primary Land Use Application or Special Permit. A Minor Site Plan can
be reviewed and approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   Major Site Plan. The Major Site Plan Review process applies to any
application that requires a primary Land Use Application, such as a Conditional
Use Permit or Variance, or a special permit such as a MRCCA permit (Section
[12-6A-4]). The Major Site Plan shall be reviewed concurrently to the Primary
Land Use Application or Special Permit procedures.
      3.   All Site Plan Review applications, both Minor and Major, must
include the following submission materials:
         a.   Site development plan, which must include:
            (1)   Location of all buildings on the subject property including
both existing and proposed structures.
            (2)   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 350-feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
            (3)   Location and number of existing and proposed parking spaces
(if commercial, industrial, or multi-family use).
            (4)   Vehicular circulation (if commercial, industrial, or multi-
family use).
            (5)   Architectural elevations, including type and materials used
of all external surfaces (if commercial, industrial, or multi-family use).
            (6)   Sewer and water alignment, existing and proposed (if
commercial, industrial, or multi-family use).
            (7)   Location and candlepower of all luminaries (if commercial,
industrial, or multi-family use).
            (8)   Location of all existing easements.
            (9)   Location and size of any proposed permanent signs (if
commercial, industrial, or multi-family use).
         b.   Dimension Plan, which must include:
            (1)   Lot dimensions and area.
            (2)   Dimensions of proposed and existing structures.
            (3)   Typical floor plan and typical room plan.
            (4)   Setbacks on all buildings located on property in question.
            (5)   Proposed setbacks.
            (6)   All impervious surface areas including driveways, parking
lots, patios, etc.
            (7)   Impervious surface calculation with all proposed
improvements.
         c.   Grading Plan, if any site work is proposed, must include:
            (1)   Existing contour.
            (2)   Proposed grading elevations.
            (3)   Drainage configuration.
            (4)   Storm sewer catch basins and invert elevations.
            (5)   Spot elevations.
            (6)   Proposed road profile.
         d.   Landscape plan, if any site work is proposed, must include:
            (1)   Location, species identification, and diameter of all
existing trees, and which trees will be removed.
            (2)   Location, type and diameter of all proposed plantings.
            (3)   Location and material used of all screening devices. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Purpose. This Zoning Ordinance classifies and divides land into Zoning
Districts that regulate dimensional standards and use of land. The purpose of
the Conditional Use Permit is to provide the City with the discretion and
flexibility to achieve the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and
to determine what, if any, uses other than those specifically permitted in the
Zoning Ordinance may be suitable. The Conditional Use must be in harmony with
and identified on the Table of Uses for the Zoning District in which the
property it is located, and reasonable conditions may be established to protect
the general welfare, public health and safety of the surrounding area.
   B.   Application For Permit. All applications for Conditional Use Permit
must include a Major Site Plan as described in Section [
12-5B-4 ] and must follow the process as established in Section [
12-5B-1 D].
   C.   Referral To Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
all applications for a Conditional Use Permit to the Planning Commission. The
City Council may, of its own motion, initiate the request for a Conditional Use
Permit and refer the same to the Planning Commission.
   D.   Planning Commission Hearing and Recommendations. The Planning
Commission shall make a written report to the City Council stating its findings
and recommendations.
   E.   Action by City Council.
      1.   Grant of Permit. In considering an application for a Conditional Use
Permit under this Zoning Ordinance, the City Council shall consider the advice
and recommendations of the Planning Commission. If the City Council determines
that the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of the community, will not cause serious traffic congestion or hazards,
will not seriously depreciate surrounding property value, and that the same is
in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this Zoning Ordinance and the
Comprehensive Plan, the City Council may grant the Conditional Use Permit
imposing reasonable conditions. The City Council may, by an affirmative vote of
the majority of all members, approve a Conditional Use Permit.
      2.   Denial of Permit. Conditional uses may be denied by resolution of
the City Council, and such resolution must include a finding and determination
that the conditions required for approval do not exist.
         a.   No application for a Conditional Use that has been denied wholly
or in part may be resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the date of
said Order of Denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of change of
conditions found to be valid by the Planning Commission.
   F.   Revocation of Permit. A violation of any condition set forth in a
Conditional Use Permit may be determined to be a violation of this Zoning
Ordinance and may result in the termination of the Conditional Use Permit.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-6: INTERIM USES:
   A.   Purpose. The purposes for allowing interim uses are to:
      1.   Allow a use for an identified period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      2.   Allow a use for an identified period of time that reasonably
utilizes the property where it is not reasonable to utilize it in the manner
otherwise provided in the Comprehensive Plan or this Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   Allow a use that is presently acceptable but that, with anticipated
development or redevelopment, will not be acceptable in the future or will be
replaced in the future by a permitted or conditional use allowed within the
respective Zoning District.
      4.   Allow a use that is seasonal in nature.
   B.   Application for Permit. All applications for Interim Use Permit must
include a Major Site Plan as described in Section [
12-5B-4 ] and must follow the process as established in Section [
12-5B-1 D].
   C.   Referral to Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
all applications for an Interim Use Permit to the Planning Commission. The City
Council may, of its own motion, initiate the request for an Interim Use Permit
and refer the same to the Planning Commission.
   D.   Public Hearing and Planning Commission Recommendations. The Planning
Commission shall make a written report to the City Council stating its findings
and recommendations.
   E.   Action by City Council.
      1.   Grant of Permit. In considering an application for an Interim Use
Permit under this Zoning Ordinance, the City Council shall consider the advice
and recommendations of the Planning Commission. The City Council may, by an
affirmative vote of the majority of all members, grant the Interim Use Permit
imposing reasonable conditions and safeguards if it finds that:
         a.   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of the community, will not cause serious traffic congestion or
hazards, will not seriously depreciate surrounding property value.
         b.   The proposed use conforms to the general purpose and intent of
this Zoning Ordinance and Comprehensive Plan, including all applicable
performance standards.
         c.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
         d.   Permission of the use will not impose, by agreement, additional
costs on the public if it is necessary for the public to take the property in
the future.
         e.   The user agrees to any reasonable conditions that the City deems
appropriate for permission of the use, including a condition that the Owner
will provide an appropriate financial surety to cover the cost of removing an
Interim Use and any structures upon expiration or revocation of the Interim Use
Permit.
         f.   The use will not delay anticipated development or redevelopment
of the site.
         g.   The property on which the use will be located is currently in
compliance with all applicable City Code standards.
         h.   The use is allowed as an Interim or Conditional Use in the
applicable Zoning District.
      2.   Denial of Permit. Interim uses may be denied by resolution of the
City Council, and such resolution shall include a finding and determination
that the reasonable conditions required for approval do not exist.
         a.   No application for an Interim Use which has been denied wholly or
in part may be resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the date of said
Order of Denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of change of
conditions found to be valid upon recommendation of the Planning Commission to
the City Council.
   F.   Revocation of Permit. An Interim Use Permit may be revoked by any of
the following: whichever occurs first:
      1.   A violation of any condition set forth in an Interim Use Permit,
which may also be considered a violation of this Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   A violation of laws of the United States or the State of Minnesota,
or this Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   If after approval it is discovered, the Permit was issued based on
false, misleading, or fraudulent information.
      4.   An amendment to this Zoning Ordinance that prohibits the use, which
is applicable upon the termination date of the Interim Use Permit.
      5.   The use becomes in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
      6.   The expiration date or occurrence of any event(s) stated in the
Interim Use Permit for termination of the use.
      7.   The use has ceased for a continuous period of at least twelve (12)
months.
      8.   The use has not commenced or a Building Permit for a structure to
support the use has not been issued within one year after approval of the
Interim Use Permit.
   G.   Notice of Revocation. Upon occurrence of the date or event for
termination of the Interim Use Permit, the City shall notify the permittee in
writing that the Interim Use Permit shall terminate not later than six (6)
months after the date of such notice.
   H.   Effect of Permit. An Interim Use Permit is effective only for the
location specified in the application. The issuance of an Interim Use Permit
does not confer on the property any vested right.
   I.   Permit Review. An Interim Use Permit may be reviewed at any time if the
City Council is of the opinion that the terms and conditions of the Interim Use
Permit have been violated, or if one of the criteria for termination has been
met, or any other unintended consequences arise as a result of the operation.
   J.   Permit Extension. The City Council shall have the right to extend the
termination date for such additional periods as are consistent with the terms
and conditions of the original Interim Use Permit. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Purpose. The City Council may grant variances from the strict
application of the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance in cases where there are
Practical Difficulties in carrying out the strict application of its standards
and regulations. When the City Council determines that Practical Difficulties
exist they may impose conditions and safeguards to protect the health, safety
and welfare of adjacent properties and the community. The City Council must
determine that all of the following conditions that establish Practical
Difficulties are met:
      1.   The Owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not
permitted by this Zoning Ordinance; and
      2.   The plight of the Owner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the Owner; and
      3.   The Variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood; and
      4.   Economic considerations alone do not constitute Practical
Difficulties; but may be considered provided all other conditions are met.
   B.   Application for Variance. All applications for a Variance must include
a Major Site Plan as described in Section [
12-5B-4 ] and must follow the process as established in Section [
12-5B-1 D]. The following additional items must accompany the primary Land Use
Application materials:
      1.   A written narrative must be submitted that identifies the Practical
Difficulties claimed as the basis for the Variance request.
      2.   A written consent and waiver of Public Hearing may be submitted, and
if deemed valid, shall waive the Public Hearing requirements. The consent and
waiver must be in a form prescribed by the City and must be signed by the
property owners within 100-feet of the boundaries of the property for which the
Variance is requested. The consent and waiver must be accompanied by a map
indicating the location of the property in question and the location of the
property owners who have given consent must be identified. If the consent and
waiver is not obtained, a list of names and addresses of the property owners
within 100-feet of the boundaries of the property for which the variance is
requested must be submitted.
   C.   Referral to Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
all applications for a Variance to the Planning Commission.
   D.   Public Hearing and Planning Commission Recommendations. The Planning
Commission shall make a written report to the City Council stating its findings
and recommendations. Such report shall recommend any conditions related to the
variance regarding the location, character, and other features of the proposed
building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable.
   E.   Action by City Council.
      1.   Grant Of Variance. In considering applications for a Variance under
this Zoning Ordinance, the City Council shall consider the advice and
recommendations of the Planning Commission. By resolution, the City Council
must find that:
         a.   Practical Difficulties exist that apply to the structure or land
in question that are unique to such property or immediately adjoining property;
and
         b.   Such Practical Difficulties do not apply generally to other land
or structures in the Zoning District in which said land is located; and
         c.   That the granting of the Variance is necessary for the
preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right of the Applicant;
and
         d.   That granting the proposed Variance will not impair an adequate
supply of light and air to adjacent property, unreasonably increase the
congestion in the public streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the
public safety, unreasonably diminish or impair established property values in
the surrounding area; or
         e.   That granting the proposed Variance will not in any other way
impair health, safety, comfort, or in any other respect be contrary to the
intent of this Zoning Ordinance; and
         f.   That the granting of such Variance will not merely serve as a
convenience to the Applicant but is necessary to alleviate a Practical
Difficulty.
         g.   If all the conditions are met, then the City Council may grant
such Variance and impose conditions and safeguards therein.
      2.   Denial of Variance. Variances may be denied by resolution of the
City Council, and such resolution shall include a finding and determination by
the City Council that the conditions required for approval do not exist.
   F.   Revocation Of Variance. A violation of any conditions set forth in
granting a Variance may be a violation of this Zoning Ordinance and may be
cause for termination of the Variance. A Variance shall become void one year
after it was granted unless a longer period is approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5B-8: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish provisions for a
Planned Unit Development project. The purpose of the Planned Unit Development
is to encourage flexibility in the design and development of land while
limiting development to a scale that is appropriate to the physical
characteristics of the land and surrounding land uses. Such flexibility shall
achieve, at a minimum, two of the following objectives:
      1.   Preserve the natural and scenic quality of open areas; or,
      2.   To facilitate adequate and economical provision of streets and
utilities; or
      3.   To encourage a diversity of housing types within a given
development; or
      4.   To permit a mixture of several Zoning District uses within a
development project or
      5.   To permit modification and flexibility from of the strict Zoning
District requirements so that a more efficient use of land or design may be
employed.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   A Planned Unit Development shall be established by rezoning the full
extent of the Project area with a PUD Overlay District.
         a.   All PUD Overlay Districts shall identify a Base Zoning District
designation which shall set the basis from which the areas of flexibility from
the standards and uses are established.
      2.   Rezoning property to “Planned Unit Development Overlay” requires the
development project to contain a minimum of 10 contiguous acres of land (the
Project Area) and must meet the following criteria:
         a.   The proposed uses in the Project Area consist of some use or uses
which would not otherwise be permitted in the Base Zoning District; or if the
Project Area includes two (2) or more Base Zoning Districts, then the Planned
Unit Development may be permitted only if a proposed use or uses in each of the
Base Zoning Districts would not otherwise be a permitted use therein; or
         b.   The Project Area consists of property located in one or more
Residential Base Zoning Districts, and the proposed Planned Unit Development
consists entirely of residential housing that is proposed to be clustered.
            (1)   To qualify under this Subsection [b.] the ratio of impervious
surface to the total Project Area may not be more than 25:100, e.g. 2,500
square feet of impervious surface to 10,000 square feet of Project Area and
must meet all other applicable conditions of this Chapter. For purposes of
calculating the impervious surface calculation the following shall be excluded
from within the Project Area:
               (A)   All wetlands and all land below the bluff line in any part
of a critical area (as defined in Title 15: Environmental Standards); and
               (B)   The square foot area of swimming pools, tennis courts and
other detached recreational structures shall not be considered; however, such
structures shall be calculated as part of the impervious surface calculation of
each lot.
         c.   Project Area consists of property located in one or more Business
or Industrial Base Zoning Districts. The proposed Planned Unit Development
shall consist entirely of facilities and uses that are either permitted or
permitted through a Conditional Use Permit in the underlying Base Zoning
District. Zero lot lines, shared parking, pedestrian connections between
structures, common building materials and treatments, signage, and
architectural styles, as well as extensive landscaping shall be encouraged in
the Planned Unit Development to create a campus atmosphere development.
            (1)   The percentage of impervious surface in the Project Area
shall be no more than 70 percent. For purpose of calculating the impervious
surface calculation the following shall be excluded:
               (A)   Wetlands and all land below the bluff line in any part of
a critical area (Title 15: Environmental Standards).
      3.   Exception to 10 Acre Requirement.
         a.   The City Council may reduce the ten (10) acre requirement for a
Planned Unit Development, but such Project Area must be a minimum of five (5)
acres, only if it finds that the Planned Unit Development, in addition to
meeting all of the standards and objectives of Section [12-2C-2], meets the
following:
            (1)   Is determined by the City Council to be “infill type
development” that would be difficult to develop under the strict application of
the Base Zoning District(s) comprising the Project Area;
            (2)   Will not require any wetlands permit;
            (3)   Will not require any variance from the critical area
standards and regulations;
            (4)   Will not increase traffic or parking estimates for the
Project Area above the level reasonably estimated for a permitted use for the
Project Area’s size in the Base Zoning District in which it is situated; and
            (5)   Provides a landscaped buffer around the perimeter of the
entire Project Area unless expressly waived by the City Council.
         b.   The City Council shall be conservative in exercising its
discretion to permit a Planned Unit Development of less than ten (10) acres.
   C.   Planned Unit Development Overlay District Types. The PUD Overlay
Districts shall be categorized as the following types:
      1.   HR-PUD High Density Residential Planned Unit Development Overlay
District. The HR-PUD is intended to provide the opportunity to develop a
Planned Unit Development of a nature and intensity equivalent to the R-3 Base
Zoning District. The permitted, conditional, and accessory uses in this
District are the same as those for the R-3 district. The Base Zoning District
for all HR-PUD shall be R-3.
      2.   MR-PUD Medium Density Residential Planned Unit Development Overlay
District. The MR-PUD is intended to provide the opportunity to develop a
Planned Unit Development of a nature and intensity equivalent to the R-2 Base
Zoning District. The permitted, conditional, and accessory uses in this
district are the same as those for the R-2 district. The Base Zoning District
for all MR-PUD shall be R-2.
      3.   LB-PUD Limited Business Planned Unit Development Overlay District.
The LB-PUD is intended to provide the opportunity to develop a Planned Unit
Development of a nature and intensity equivalent to the B-1, limited business
Zoning District. The permitted, conditional, and accessory uses in this
district are the same as those for the B-1 district. The Base Zoning District
for all LB-PUD shall be B-1.
      4.   MU-PUD Mixed Use Planned Unit Development District. The MU-PUD
district is intended to provide the opportunity to develop a Planned Unit
Development with a mix of residential and nonresidential uses. All permitted,
conditional, and accessory uses contained in the R-2, R-3, B-1, and B-2 Zoning
Districts shall be treated as potentially allowed within the MU-PUD District,
provided they are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. The City Council
shall have the authority to approve other uses in the MU-PUD district by
Conditional Use Permit. The Base Zoning District for all MU-PUD shall be R-3.
   D.   Rights to rezone to a Planned Unit Development Overlay District. The
use of more flexible regulations in the development of land under this Section
may be approved if all of the conditions of this Section are found to exist and
if it is determined that it is in the overall community interest to do so. The
rezoning is not an assumed right but is a discretionary privilege which may be
granted by the City Council. All Planned Unit Development Overlay Districts
shall follow the procedures of other provisions of this Chapter, and the areas
of flexibility, including from uses or dimensional standards must be clearly
established within the established Planned Unit Development Overlay District.
   E.   Approval and Administration.
      1.   All Planned Unit Developments must be rezoned to an Overlay District
and must include a Planned Unit Development Agreement that defines and
describes the uses, any areas of flexibility from the Base Zoning District, and
the development terms and conditions. The application for rezoning shall follow
the process established in Section [
12-5B-3 ] and the Planned Unit Development application shall be processed
concurrently.
      2.   Standards for Approval. The Planned Unit Development may be approved
only if it satisfies all of the following standards:
         a.   The Planned Unit Development is an effective and unified
treatment of the development possibilities on the project site and the
development plan includes provisions for the preservation of unique natural
amenities such as streams, stream banks, wooded cover, rough terrain, and
similar areas.
         b.   The Planned Unit Development has been planned and is proposed to
be developed to harmonize with adjacent projects or proposals.
         c.   Financing is available to the Applicant on conditions and in an
amount which is sufficient to assure completion of the Planned Unit Development
and evidence to support those facts is presented to and deemed satisfactory by
the City Council.
         d.   The Planned Unit Development is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan of the community.
         e.   The Planned Unit Development can be planned and developed to
harmonize with any existing or proposed development in the areas surrounding
the project site.
      3.   Number of Dwelling Units.
         a.   In a residential Planned Unit Development, the number of dwelling
units proposed for the entire site shall not exceed the total number permitted
by the Base Zoning District(s) and the Comprehensive Plan in which the land is
located. If the residential Planned Unit Development is in more than one Base
Zoning District, the number of allowable dwelling units must be calculated
separately for each portion of the Planned Unit Development that is in a
separate Zoning District and must then be combined to determine the number of
dwelling units allowable in the entire Planned Unit Development. The density of
individual uses in the MU-PUD District may be guided by the standard
established by the Base Zoning District for each use. The City Council shall
have the authority to determine the allowed density based on the quality and
components of the Planned Unit Development. Said density may be lesser or
greater than that prescribed by the Base Zoning District(s) at the discretion
of the City Council, but in all cases must comply with the density ranges
established in the Comprehensive Plan.
         b.   The Planning Commission shall determine the number of dwelling
units which may be constructed within the Planned Unit Development by dividing
the net acreage of the Project Area by the required lot area per dwelling unit
which is required in the Base Zoning District. The net acreage shall be defined
as the Project Area less the land area dedicated for public arterial and
collector streets and delineated wetlands. The net acreage shall include all
lands to be conveyed to the City for public parks and local roads in the
calculation.
   F.   Procedure for Planned Unit Development.
      1.   Concept Plan.
         a.   Preapplication Conference. Before submitting an application for a
Concept Plan or Preliminary Development Plan the Applicant must meet with the
Zoning Administrator to discuss the proposed Planned Unit Development. After
the meeting, if the Applicant wishes to move forward the Applicant must submit
a Concept Plan to obtain information and guidance before entering into binding
commitments or incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys, and other data.
         b.   Concept Plan. The Concept Plan must be accompanied by the
information specified herein, which shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. The Zoning Administrator shall not place a
Concept Plan on the Planning Commission agenda until all of the information
specified in this Section has been provided by the Applicant. The information
must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 21 days before the
Planning Commission meeting so that a Staff report can be prepared for
presentation.
         c.   A Concept Plan must include both maps and a written statement and
must show enough of the area surrounding the proposed Planned Unit Development
to demonstrate the relationship of the Planned Unit Development to adjoining
uses, both existing and proposed. The maps which are part of the Concept Plan
may be in general schematic form, and must contain the following information:
            (1)   The existing topography of the land.
            (2)   Existing and proposed land uses and the approximate location
of buildings, utilities, and unique development features of the site.
            (3)   The location of major thoroughfares and roadways, included
proposed access locations.
            (4)   Public uses, including schools, parks, playgrounds, and other
open spaces.
         d.   A written statement shall accompany the Concept Plan, which must
contain the following information.
            (1)   An explanation of the character of the Planned Unit
Development and how it is consistent with and has been planned to comply with
the Planned Unit Development provisions contained in this Section.
            (2)   A statement of proposed financing.
            (3)   A statement of the present ownership and all existing or
contingent interests in the land included within the Planned Unit Development.
            (4)   A general indication of the expected schedule of development
including progressive phasing and time schedules which shall not exceed five
(5) years from the date of approval of the Final Development Plan for the
Planned Unit Development to the completion of all construction.
            (5)   The character and approximate density of dwelling units, if
applicable.
            (6)   Estimated industrial or commercial acreage and projected
employment, if applicable.
            (7)   Estimated square footage of any commercial development, if
applicable.
            (8)   Estimated amount of open space and a computation showing the
percent of impervious surface in the Project Area.
            (9)   Projected traffic.
         e.   Action Following Concept Plan review. The Planning Commission and
the City Council shall make recommendations regarding the Concept Plan and give
reasons for their recommendations. Such discussion and recommendations are not
binding on the city in any way, and is intended only to be advisory to the
Applicant.
      2.   Preliminary Development Plan.
         a.   If a Preliminary Development Plan has not been submitted to the
Planning Commission within six (6) months following the date of the City
Council meeting at which the Concept Plan was discussed, then the Applicant
shall repeat the Concept Plan process specified by this Section. In its
discretion and for good cause, the City Council may extend for three (3) months
the period for the filing of the Preliminary Development Plan and waive the
resubmission for Concept Plan.
         b.   Every Preliminary Development Plan must include all of the
following information:
            (1)   A map showing street systems, plot lines and plot designs.
            (2)   Areas proposed to be conveyed, dedicated, or reserved for
parks, playgrounds, play ways, school sites, public buildings, and similar
public and semipublic uses.
            (3)   A Plat or Site Plan that shows every building site and common
open area, the proposed location of all buildings, structures and improvements
and identifies the open spaces around buildings and structures. The Plat or
Site Plan shall include an analysis and report of the area devoted to each
proposed parcel, building, and use.
            (4)   Elevation and perspective drawings of all proposed structures
and improvements and any accessory structures. The drawings must indicate the
general design character and proposed materials and must be to-scale.
            (5)   A development schedule indicating:
               (A)   The approximate date when construction of the project can
be expected to begin;
               (B)   The stages in which the project will be built and the
approximate date when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
               (C)   The anticipated rate of development;
               (D)   The approximate dates when the development of each of the
stages in the development will be completed; and
               (D)   The area and location of common open space that will be
provided at each stage.
            (6)   Copies of proposed agreements, provisions or covenants which
will govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the Planned Unit
Development and any of its common open areas, for information purposes only.
            (7)   The following plans and diagrams:
               (A)   All information required under the provisions of
[Subsection
12-5B-4 ] of this Chapter.
               (B)   An off-street parking and loading plan.
               (C)   A circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of
vehicles, goods, and pedestrians within the Planned Unit Development and to and
from existing thoroughfares. Any special engineering features and traffic
regulation devices needed to facilitate or ensure the safety of this
circulation pattern must be shown.
               (D)   A landscaping and tree planting plan.
               (E)   An economic feasibility report or market analysis.
            (8)   The Applicant may, instead of filing a Preliminary
Development Plan, file a Final Development Plan at the time specified in this
Subsection, and such Final Development Plan shall contain all of the
information required in this Subsection and all information required for the
Final Development Plan as specified in this Section.
      3.   Approval of Preliminary Development Plan or Final Development Plan
Submitted in Lieu Thereof.
         a.   Time for Filing; Hearing and Notice. The Applicant shall file the
Preliminary Development Plan (or in lieu thereof a Final Development Plan) with
the Zoning Administrator a minimum of 21 days before the Planning Commission
meeting at which the application will be considered. The Planning Commission
shall give notice of a Public Hearing in conformance with Section [
12-5B-1 D.4] of this Chapter.
         b.   Recommendation of Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall review the Preliminary or Final Development Plan and, after the Public
Hearing, submit a written report recommending that the rezoning and development
plan be approved, approved with modifications, or denied and give the reasons
for these recommendations.
         c.   Action by City Council.
            (1)   After receipt of the report and recommendations of the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall consider the Plan and the report
transmitted to them by the Planning Commission. At the time of consideration,
the City Council may take action to approve, approve with modifications, deny
with findings, or continue the discussion for further information and report
from the Planning Commission as it may direct.
            (2)   Upon approval of the Development Plan the City Council shall
conditionally approve the rezoning and Planned Unit Development Agreement with
appropriate findings consistent with this Section. If the approval is of the
Preliminary Development Plan, such approval shall be subject to the filing of a
Final Development Plan and the approval of the Final Development Plan shall
cause the rezoning to become valid by the affirmative vote of the majority of
all City Council Members.
      4.   Final Development Plan.
         a.   Time for Filing. Within six (6) weeks following the approval of
the Preliminary Development Plan by the City Council, the Applicant shall file
with the Zoning Administrator a Final Development Plan containing the
information conditioned in the Preliminary Development Plan approval. In its
discretion and for good cause, the City Council may extend for six (6) weeks
the period for the filing of the Final Development Plan.
         b.   Development Agreement. All agreements, covenants and conditions
relating to the Planned Unit Development, including, without limitation:
            (1)   Those which relate to the use, maintenance and continued
protection of any common open areas;
            (2)   All areas of flexibility from the Base Zoning District
granted; and
            (3)   All conditional uses which are inconsistent with the
requirements and uses otherwise permitted in the Zoning District or the
districts which comprise the Planned Unit Development as approved by the City
Council shall be set forth in a development agreement mutually agreed to and
entered into between the Applicant and the City.
            (4)   Approval of the Development Agreement by the City Council and
the Applicant shall be a condition for approval of the Final Development Plan.
         c.   Action By City Council.
            (1)   The City Council will review the Final Development Plan to
determine that all conditions to the approval of the Preliminary Development
Plan have been satisfied and that the standards set forth in [Subsection 12-1K-
5A] of this Section continue to be met, the City Council shall approve the
Final Development Plan and the rezoning to a Planned Unit Development Overlay
District.
            (2)   No Building Permits will be issued until the Applicant
provides evidence to the City of the recording of the Final Development Plan
and the Development Agreement.
            (3)   If the Final Development Plan is not in substantial
conformity with the Preliminary Development Plan and the Applicant wishes to
proceed with the Final Development Plan, the Final Development Plan shall be
considered pursuant to the procedures provided for by this Chapter for
Rezoning, and the Applicant shall be referred back to the Planning Commission
to begin that process.
      5.   Amendments to Final Development Plan. No changes may be made in the
approved Final Development Plan after its approval by the City Council, except
upon application to the Council under the procedures provided below:
         a.   Minor changes in the location, siting, and height of buildings
and structures may be authorized by the City Council if required by engineering
or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the Final Development Plan was
approved. Such approval shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all
members of the City Council.
         b.   All other changes in use, or rearrangements of lots, blocks and
building tracts, any changes in the provision of common open spaces, and all
other changes in the approved Final Development Plan must be made by the City
Council under the procedures authorized by this Chapter for the approval of a
Zoning Amendment. No amendments may be required by the City Council because of
changes in conditions that have occurred since the Final Development Plan was
approved or by changes in the development policy of the community.
   G.   Failure to begin Planned Unit Development. If no construction has begun
of the Planned Unit Development within one year from the approval of the Final
Development Plan, the Final Development Plan shall lapse and be of no further
effect and the Base Zoning District standards shall govern. In its discretion
and for good cause, the City Council may extend for up to one additional year
the period for the beginning of construction.
   H.   Enforcing Development Schedule. The construction and provision of all
the common open spaces and public and recreational facilities which are shown
on the Final Development Plan must proceed at the same rate as the construction
of the primary structural units. At least once every three (3) months following
the approval of the Final Development Plan, the Zoning Administrator shall
review all of the Building Permits issued for the Planned Unit Development and
examine the construction which has taken place on site. If the Zoning
Administrator finds that the rate of construction of dwelling units is greater
than the rate at which common open spaces and public and recreational
facilities have been constructed and provided, they shall forward this
information to the City Council, who shall identify appropriate penalties and
violations.
   I.   Open Spaces.
      1.   Conveyance and Maintenance of Common Open Space.
         a.   Options. All land shown on the Final Development Plan as common
open space must be conveyed under one of the following options:
            (1)   It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to
maintain the common open space and any buildings, structures, or improvements
which have been placed on it.
            (2)   It may be conveyed to a homeowners’ association or similar
organization for the maintenance of the common spaces of the Planned Unit
Development, subject to and in a manner consistent with the covenants, duties
and obligations of the developer set forth in the development agreement.
         b.   Final Development Plan Controls. No common open space may be put
to any use not specified in the Final Development Plan unless the Final
Development Plan has been amended to permit that use under this Zoning
Ordinance. However, no change of use authorized under this Chapter may be
considered as a waiver of any of the covenants limiting the use of common open
space areas, and all rights to enforce these covenants against any use
permitted under this Chapter are expressly reserved.
         c.   Enforcement. If the common open space is not conveyed to a public
agency, either one of the following methods of enforcement must be provided:
            (1)   The legal right to develop the common open space for the uses
specified in the Final Development Plan must be conveyed to a public agency in
the event the completion of such improvements is not completed.
            (2)   The restrictions governing the use, improvement, and
maintenance of the common open space must be stated as conditions to the
conveyance of the common open space; the fee title to the common open space to
vest in a public agency in the event of a substantial default in the stated
conditions.
         d.   City to Enforce Covenants. If the common open space is not
conveyed to a public agency, the covenants governing the use, improvement, and
maintenance of the common open space shall authorize the City to enforce their
provisions.
      2.   Standards for Common or Public Open Space.
         a.   Location and Design. The location, shape, size and character of
the common open space must be suitable for the Planned Unit Development.
         b.   Use Requirements. Common open space must be used for amenities or
recreational purposes. The uses authorized for the common open space must be
appropriate to the scale and character of the Planned Unit Development,
considering its size, density, expected population, topography and the number
and type of principal units to be provided.
         c.   Improvement Requirements.
            (1)   Common open space must be suitably improved for its intended
use, but common open space containing natural features worthy of preservation
may be left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are
permitted in the common open space must be appropriate to the uses which are
authorized for the common open space and must conserve and enhance the
amenities of the common open space having regard to its topography and
unimproved condition.
            (2)   If the Final Development Plan provides for buildings or
structure improvements in the common open space, the developer must provide a
bond or other adequate assurance that the buildings, structures, and
improvements will be completed. The Planning Commission shall release the bond
or other assurance when the buildings, structures, or improvements have been
completed according to the development plan.
         d.   Development Schedule. The development schedule which is part of
the Final Development Plan must coordinate the improvement of the common open
space, the construction of buildings, structures, and improvements in the
common open space, and the construction of residential dwellings in the Planned
Unit Development.
         e.   Other Requirements. In the development of the common open space,
the requirements of other City Ordinances must be met unless otherwise provided
in the development agreement, e.g., wetlands permit requirements, etc.
      3.   Guarantee of Provision of Common Open Space. The City Council may
require adequate assurance, in a form and manner which it approves, that the
common open space shown in the Final Development Plan will be provided. The
following methods of assurance are intended as illustrative, and they may be
used singly or in combination:
         a.   Bond, Surety, Financial Guarantee. The City Council will accept a
bond, corporate surety, or other acceptable financial guarantee, in a form
which complies with the provisions of the subdivision control ordinance, and in
an amount sufficient to purchase at its then current market value the common
open space shown in the Final Development Plan.
         b.   Escrow. The land shown as common open space may be put in escrow,
the escrow agreement to provide that the land is to be held in escrow until the
City Council has certified to the escrow agent that the Planned Unit
Development has been completed, at which time, the common open space is to be
conveyed as provided by City Ordinance. The escrow agreement may provide for
the release of the common open space by the escrow agent in stages, the City
Council to certify the completion of each stage of the Planned Unit Development
to the escrow agent. The escrow agreement must provide that a portion of the
open space is to be conveyed in the manner provided by City Ordinance, if the
Planned Unit Development is not completed. In this event, the open space which
is conveyed is to bear the same proportion to the open space provided on the
Final Development Plan as the dwelling units that have been built bear to the
total number of dwelling units which are allowable by the Final Development
Plan.
         c.   Exercise Option. If any of the Planned Unit Development which
includes common open space is held by the Owner on option, the Owner may assign
to the City Council the right to exercise the option to acquire the common open
space and shall simultaneously provide the City Council with the sum necessary,
if any, to exercise the option and acquire the property.
         d.   Withholding Certificate of Occupancy. If for any reason the
common open space shall not be provided for before the completion and occupancy
of the project, the City Council may withhold the Certificate of Occupancy
until the common open space has been provided and improved in accordance with
the Final Development Plan. The Development Agreement controlling the PUD shall
specify the Applicant’s agreement to this remedy.
   J.   Control of Planned Unit Development Following Completion.
      1.   Issuance of Certificate of Completion. The City Council shall issue
a certificate certifying the completion of each phase of the Planned Unit
Development, and the City Clerk shall note the issuance of the certificate on
the recorded Final Development Plan.
      2.   Final Development Plan and Development Agreement to Govern. After
the Certificate of Completion has been issued, the use of land and the
construction, modification, or alteration of any buildings or structures within
the Planned Unit Development will be governed by the approved Final Development
Plan and the Development Agreement to the extent that they may be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance.
      3.   Changes To Final Development Plan.
         a.   After the Certificate of Completion has been issued, no changes
may be made in the approved Final Development Plan except upon application to
the City Council under the procedures provided below:
            (1)   Minor Changes. Any minor extensions, alterations, or
modifications within the building envelope of existing commercial and
industrial buildings or structures may be authorized by the City Council if
they are consistent with the purposes and intent of the Final Development Plan,
and such authorization shall be by the affirmative vote of a majority of all
members of the City Council. No change authorized hereby may increase the cubic
feet of any building or structure by more than ten percent (10%).
            (2)   Unauthorized Uses. Any uses not authorized by the approved
Final Development Plan, but allowable in the Project Area as a permitted use
under the provisions of this Chapter or permitted as a Conditional Use in the
Base Zoning District in which the Planned Unit Development is located, may be
added to the Final Development Plan under the procedures provided by this
Chapter for the approval of conditional uses.
            (3)   Destroyed Structures. A building or structure that is totally
or substantially destroyed may be reconstructed only in compliance with the
Final Development Plan unless an amendment to the Final Development Plan is
approved pursuant to the procedures for approval of a Zoning Amendment under
this Chapter.
            (4)   Common Open Space Changes. Changes in the use of common open
space may be authorized by an amendment to the Final Development Plan pursuant
to the procedures for approval of a Zoning Amendment under this Chapter.
            (5)   All Other Changes. All other changes in the Final Development
Plan must be approved by the City Council under the procedures authorized by
this Chapter. No changes may be made in the Final Development Plan unless they
are required for the continued successful functioning of the Planned Unit
Development, or unless they are required by changes in conditions that have
occurred since the Final Development Plan was approved or by changes in the
development policy of the community.
         b.   No changes in the Final Development Plan which are approved under
this Section are to be considered as a waiver of the covenants limiting the use
of land, buildings, structures, and improvements within the area of the Planned
Unit Development, and all rights to enforce these covenants against any changes
permitted by this Section are expressly reserved. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE C. OTHER APPLICATIONS, STUDIES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
12-5C-1: Building Permits
12-5C-2: Certificate of Occupancy
12-5C-3: Traffic Studies
12-5C-4: Administrative Permit
12-5C-1: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Required. No structure may be erected or structurally altered until it
has been determined that a Building Permit is required. If required, the
Building Permit must be issued, indicating that the existing or proposed
structure and the use of the land complies with this Zoning Ordinance and the
building code prior to any construction or site work.
      1.   Building Permits that do not comply with all the requirements of the
building code will not be issued.
      2.   No site preparation work, including rough grading, driveway
construction, footing excavation, tree removal or other physical changes to the
site may occur prior to the issuance of a Building Permit and other required
land use or zoning permits.
   B.   Application. Applications for Building Permits required by this Section
shall be made to the City Clerk or Building Official on the official forms. The
City Clerk or Building Official shall maintain a record of all applications and
all permits issued under this Section.
   C.   Site Plan. Applications for a Building Permit must be accompanied by a
Site Plan (Minor) to determine compliance with this Zoning Ordinance. In some
cases, the Zoning Administrator may require a Certificate of Survey be
completed.
   D.   Issuance. No Building Permit shall be issued for any improvement that
would result in a use, building or structure that is in violation of this
Zoning Ordinance, or the subdivision, shoreland management, floodplain, MRCCA,
or any other city regulations.
   E.   Expiration. Building Permits issued under the provisions of this
Section and the Building Code shall expire and be null and void if the work
authorized by a Building Permit is abandoned or suspended for a period of 120
days, or in the event that work is not commenced or completed within the time
period to start work as established in the permit conditions.
   F.   Suspension or Revocation. The Building Official may, in writing,
suspend or revoke a Building Permit issued under the provisions of this Section
and the Building Code whenever such Building Permit is issued in error or on
the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any city
ordinance, regulation or code. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5C-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required. Certificates of Occupancy shall be required for
occupancy and use of any buildings hereinafter erected or structurally altered;
for new occupancy and use of an existing building when the new use is of a
different zoning classification; for occupancy and use of vacant land, new use
of vacant land when new use is of a different zoning classification, and for
any change in the use of a nonconforming use.
   B.   Application for Certificate. Every application for a Building Permit
shall be deemed to be an application for Certificate of Occupancy. Every
application for a Certificate of Occupancy for the use of land where no
Building Permit is required shall be made directly to the Zoning Administrator.
   C.   Issuance of Certificate. The Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued
within three (3) days after construction has been completed and the premises
inspected and certified to be in conformance with the provisions of this
Chapter. Where vacant land or change in the use of an existing building, or for
change in a nonconforming use is involved, the Certificate of Occupancy shall
be issued as soon as the Code Enforcement Officer has examined the premises and
determined that the requirements of this Chapter have been met.
   D.   Certificates for Nonconforming Uses. Application for such Certificate
of Occupancy for all lawful nonconforming uses or buildings created by the
adoption of this Chapter shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator by the
Owner to issue a Certificate of Occupancy for a lawful nonconforming use.
   Failure to apply for such Certificate of Occupancy, or refusal of the Zoning
Administrator to issue the Certificate of Occupancy shall be prima facie
evidence that such nonconforming use was either illegal or did not lawfully
exist at the effective date of this Chapter.
   E.   Violations.
      1.   It shall constitute a violation of this Chapter for any person,
firm, corporation, or voluntary association, either owner or agent, to do any
of the things mentioned in this Section without having first obtained a
Certificate of Occupancy.
      2.   Any Certificate of Occupancy issued upon a false statement of fact
which is material to the issuance thereof shall be void. Whenever the fact of
such false statement shall be established to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator, he/she shall revoke the Certificate of Occupancy, by notice in
writing to the holder. Any person who shall proceed thereafter with such work
or use without having obtained a new certificate shall be deemed guilty of
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5C-3: TRAFFIC STUDIES:
   A.   Purpose and Applicability. Any application for a proposed development
or redevelopment project that results in the change or intensification of the
existing or planned land use may be required to conduct or submit a recently
completed traffic study
   B.   Application. A Traffic Study may be requested by either the Zoning
Administrator or Public Works Director, and such study shall accompany the
primary Land Use Application. The study shall be prepared in compliance with
the most current version of the Dakota County Traffic Impact Analysis
Guidelines.
   C.   Information to be Submitted. The Study shall be prepared at the cost of
the Applicant and prepared by a licensed engineer. The Study must analyze
existing and proposed traffic patterns of the surrounding area for review and
comment as part of the primary Land Use Application or any plat.
      1.   Other Agency Review. When potentially impacted roadways included in
the traffic study are under county, state, or adjacent City jurisdiction, the
City reserves the right to request additional review and comment from those
jurisdictions for consideration in evaluating the permit application. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-5C-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of the Administrative Permit is to verify and
check compliance of certain activities and improvements with the standards and
regulations established within this Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Applicability. An Administrative Permit must be obtained for all
activities and uses as identified on
Table [12-3B-1.1 ] Table of Uses and as required throughout this Zoning
Ordinance.
      1.   Issuance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue an Administrative
Permit which may include reasonable conditions. Periodic review or renewal of
the Administrative Permit may be required as stated within this Zoning
Ordinance, or as noted in the Conditions of the Administrative Permit.
   C.   Application. Whenever this Zoning Ordinance requires an Administrative
Permit, an application in writing must be filed with the Zoning Administrator
prior to the commencement of the proposed use or activity.
   D.   Information to be submitted. The application must be accompanied by
development plans for the proposed use. The plans must contain adequate
information to determine that the proposed development or use meets the
standards of this Zoning Ordinance. The Zoning Administrator will determine
what information is necessary to issue the Administrative Permit. Development
plans may include:
      1.   Site Plan (Minor).
      2.   Landscaping and Screening Plan [see
12-4A-5  and 12-4D-2].
      3.   Grading and Drainage plan.
      4.   Description of use/activity.
   E.   Action. The Zoning Administrator will issue or deny the Administrative
Permit within 15 days after the receipt of a complete application.
   F.   Lack of Action. If no such action on the Administrative Permit is
taken, the request for Administrative Permit is deemed approved, unless the
Zoning Administrator determines otherwise.
   G.   Appeal. If the request for Administrative Permit is denied or if
conditions are imposed, the Applicant may appeal the decision to the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Such appeal shall follow the appeal procedures as established
in Section [
12-5A-3 ]. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE D. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
SECTION:
12-5D-1: Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW)
12-5D-1: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET (EAW):
   A.   Environmental Review Program. The provisions of the rules for the
Environmental Review Program, [6MCAR 3.021 to 3.047], one copy of which is on
file in the Office of the Clerk, are hereby adopted, together with the other
provisions of this Section, as a basis for the environmental review operating
procedures the City will follow in implementing the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, [Chapter 116D] relating to the Environmental Review Program and any
rules adopted thereunder by the Minnesota Environmental Quality Board. All
terms used in this Chapter shall have the same meaning as the terms used in
Chapter 116D and the rules adopted thereunder.
   B.   Cost of Preparation and Review.
      1.   Information To Be Provided. The Applicant for a permit for any
action for which environmental documents are required either by state law or
rules or by the City Council shall supply in the manner prescribed by the
administrator all unprivileged data or information reasonably requested by the
City that the Applicant has in his possession or to which he has reasonable
access.
      2.   Environmental Assessment Worksheets. The Applicant for a permit for
any action for which an Environmental Assessment Worksheet (EAW) is required
either by state law or rules or by the City Council, shall pay all costs of
preparation and review of the EAW, and upon the request of and in the manner
prescribed by the administrator shall prepare a draft EAW and supply all
information necessary to complete that document.
      3.   Environmental Impact Statement. The City and the Applicant for a
permit for any action for which an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is
required shall comply with the provisions of the rules governing assessment of
costs for Environmental Impact Statements, one copy of which is on file in the
Office of the Clerk, unless the Applicant and the City Council provide
otherwise by a written agreement.
      4.   Payment Of Costs. No permit for an action for which an EAW or an EIS
is required shall be issued until all costs of preparation and review which are
to be paid by the Applicant are paid, and all information required is supplied,
and until the environmental review process has been completed as provided in
this Section and the rules adopted by reference by this Section, and pursuant
to any written agreement entered into by the Applicant for the permit or
permits and the City Council under the provision of Subsection [E] of this
Section.
      5.   Agreements Concerning Cost of Preparation and Review. The Applicant
for a permit for any action for which an EAW or EIS is required, and the City
Council may, in writing agree as to a different division of the costs of
preparation and review of any EAW or EIS as provided in [6MCAR 3.042].
   C.   Administration.
      1.   Duty Of Administrator. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for
the administration of the Environmental Review program, and the rules adopted
by reference by this Chapter.
      2.   Action Required. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for
determining whether an action for which a permit is required is an action for
which an EAW is mandatory under 6MCAR 3.024. The Zoning Administrator shall
also determine those proposed actions for which an optional EAW may be required
under the provisions of the Section and shall notify the City Council of these
proposed actions.
      3.   Preparation. All EAWs and EISs shall be prepared under the
supervision of the Zoning Administrator and reviewed and approved by the City
Council.
      4.   Alterations. When reviewing an EAW or EIS, the Zoning Administrator
may suggest design alterations which would lessen the environmental impact of
the action. The City Council may require these design alterations to be made as
a condition for issuing the permit when it finds that the design alterations
are necessary to lessen the environmental impact of the action.
   D.   Optional EAW. The City Council may, upon recommendation by the Zoning
Administrator, require that an optional EAW be prepared on any proposed action
if the action may be a major action and appears to have the potential for
significant environmental effects. The following guidelines shall also be
considered in determining whether an optional EAW shall be required:
      1.   Is the action to be in or near an area that is considered to be
environmentally sensitive or aesthetically pleasing?
      2.   Is the action likely to have disruptive effects such as generating
traffic and noise?
      3.   Are there public questions or controversy concerning the
environmental effects of the proposed actions?
   E.   Enforcement and Penalty.
      1.   General Rule. No permit shall be issued for a project for which
environmental documents are required until the entire environmental review
procedures established by this Chapter are completed.
      2.   Compliance. No work shall commence and any work in progress on any
project for which environment documents are required shall cease until the
environmental review procedures established by this Chapter are fully complied
with.
      3.   Violations. Each day that the violation of this Chapter is permitted
to exist constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE E. FEES AND VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
12-5E-1: Fees And Deposits
12-5E-2: Violations; Penalties
12-5E-1: FEES AND DEPOSITS:
   A.   Base Fees. The Base Fees to be paid for each application shall be
established by ordinance. Base Fees shall be payable at the time applications
are filed with the City Clerk and shall not be refundable unless said
application is withdrawn prior to referral to the Planning Commission. In
addition to any other remedies available to the City, a double fee or $250.00,
whichever is greater, shall be charged if action requiring any permit required
by this Ordinance is undertaken without first obtaining a permit for such
action.
   B.   Escrow Deposits. Escrow deposits, in amounts established by Ordinance,
will be required to be submitted with planning applications to defray
anticipated City expenses incurred in connection with the Application. Any
expenses incurred by the City in excess of the escrow shall be billed to the
Applicant after all city costs have been determined. Failure of the Applicant
to reimburse billed expenses within 30 days may be cause for revocation of
approval action taken by the City Council. Any unused escrow deposit amount
shall be returned to the Applicant. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-5E-2: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Issuance Of Citations. The City Code Enforcement Officer is hereby
authorized to issue citations for violations of or refusal to comply with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Violation; Penalty. Any person, firm, corporation or voluntary
association which violates or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable as provided in [Section
1-4-1 ]. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 6
CRITICAL AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-6A-1: Authority, Policy And Intent
12-6A-2: General Provisions And Definitions
12-6A-3: Administration
12-6A-4: Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area (MRCCA) Districts
12-6A-5: Special Land Use Provisions
12-6A-6: Structure Height, Placement And Lot Size
12-6A-7: Performance Standards For Private Facilities
12-6A-8: Performance Standards For Public Facilities
12-6A-9: Vegetation Management
12-6A-10: Land Alteration Standards And Stormwater Management
12-6A-11: Subdivision And Land Development Standards
12-6A-12: Site Plan Requirements
12-6A-13: Official Review Process
12-6A-14: Notification To Resource Agencies
12-6A-15: Exemptions
12-6A-1: AUTHORITY, POLICY AND INTENT:
   A.   Statutory Authorization. This Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area
(MRCCA) Overlay District Chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and
policies contained in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 116G, Minnesota Rules, Parts
6106.0010 - 6106.0180, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 462 and 473.
   B.   Policy. The Legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to
local governments of the State to regulate the subdivision, use, and
development of designated critical areas and thus preserve and enhance the
quality of important historic, cultural, aesthetic values, and natural systems
and provide for the wise use of these areas.
   C.   Intent. The Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area regulations are
intended to:
      1.   Establish districts under which building height and structure
placement are regulated to protect and enhance the Mississippi River’s
resources and features consistent with the natural and built character of each
district.
      2.   Identify development standards and considerations for land uses that
have potential to negatively affect primary conservation areas and public river
corridor views.
      3.   Establish standards that protect primary conservation areas and
public river corridor views from development impacts and ensure that new
development is established consistent with the purpose of the MRCCA.
      4.   Establish design standards for private facilities that are
consistent with best management practices and that minimize impacts to Primary
Conservation Areas (PCAs), Public River Corridor Views (PRCVs) and other
resources identified in the MRCCA plan.
      5.   Establish design standards for public facilities that are consistent
with best management practices and that minimize impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views and other resources identified
in the MRCCA plan while recognizing that they serve the public interest by
providing access to the Mississippi River Corridor or require locations within
the river corridor and therefor require some flexibility.
      6.   Establish standards that sustain and enhance the biological and
ecological functions of vegetation; preserve the natural character and
topography of the MRCCA; and maintain stability of bluffs and critical area
steep slopes and ensure stability of other erosion-prone areas.
      7.   Establish standards that protect water quality from pollutant
loadings of sediment, nutrients, bacteria, and other contaminants; and maintain
stability of bluffs, shorelines, and other areas prone to erosion.
      8.   To create standards for subdivisions and development or
redevelopment of sites that protect and enhance the natural and scenic value of
the MRCCA, protect and restore biological and ecological functions of primary
conservation areas, and encourage restoration of native vegetation where
restoration opportunities have been identified in the MRCCA Plan. (Ord. 568, 9-
23-2021, amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this Chapter apply to land within the
river corridor boundary as described in the State Register, Volume 43, pages
508 to 519 and shown on the City’s official zoning or MRCCA maps on file with
the City.
   B.   Enforcement. The City Zoning Administrator and Public Works Director
are jointly responsible for the administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
Any violation of its provisions or failure to comply with any of its
requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with grants of variances or conditional uses, constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this Chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in Section [
12-5B-1 ].
   C.   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
Chapter is judged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this Chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   D.   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. It is not intended by this Chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this Chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this Chapter shall prevail. To the extent any other Chapters or
sections are inconsistent with this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter
shall prevail.
   E.   Underlying Zoning. Uses and standards of underlying Zoning Districts
apply except where standards of this Chapter are more restrictive. (Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
12-6A-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to identify administrative
provisions to ensure this Chapter is administered consistent with its purpose.
   B.   Permits. A Critical Area Permit is required for the construction of any
new structure, building(s) or building addition(s), including construction of
decks, retaining walls, signs, the installation and/or alteration of sewage
treatment systems, vegetation removal consistent with [Section 12-6A-9] and
land alterations consistent with Section [12-6A-10].
   C.   Variances. Variances to the requirements under this Chapter may only be
granted in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Section 462.357 and must
consider the potential impacts of variances on primary conservation areas
(PCAs), public river corridor views (PRCVs), and other resources identified in
the MRCCA Plan. In reviewing the Variance application, and before granting a
Variance, the City shall:
      1.   Evaluate the impacts to these resources. If negative impacts are
found, require conditions to mitigate the impacts that are related to and
proportional to the impacts, and consistent with Section [
12-6A-3 E] (below); and
      2.   Make written findings that the variance is consistent with the
purposes and scope of this Chapter as follows:
         a.   The extent, location and intensity of the variance will be in
substantial compliance with the MRCCA Plan;
         b.   The Variance is consistent with the character and management
purpose of the MRCCA District in which it is located;
         c.   The Variance will not be detrimental to PCAs and PRCVs nor will
it contribute to negative incremental impacts to PCAs and PRCVs when considered
in the context of past, present and reasonable future actions; and
         d.   The Variance will not negatively affect other MRCCA resources
identified in the City’s MRCCA Plan such as wetlands, river overlooks, parks,
and open space.
   D.   Conditional and Interim Use Permits. All Conditional and Interim uses
required under this Chapter must comply with Minnesota Statutes, Section
462.3595 and 462.3597 respectively, and must consider the potential impacts on
primary conservation areas, public river corridor views, and other resources
identified in the City’s MRCCA Plan. In reviewing the application, and before
granting a Conditional or Interim use Permit, the City shall:
      1.   Evaluate the impacts to these resources and if negative impacts are
found, require conditions to mitigate the impacts that are related to and
proportional to the impacts, consistent with Section [
12-6A-3 E / 12-6A-3.1] (below); and
      2.   Make written findings that the Conditional or Interim Use is
consistent with the purpose of this Chapter as follows.
         a.   The extent, location, and intensity of the Conditional or Interim
Use will be in substantial compliance with the MRCCA Plan;
         b.   The Conditional or Interim Use is consistent with the character
and management purpose of the MRCCA District in which it is located;
         c.   The Conditional or Interim Use will not be detrimental to PCAs
and PRCVs nor will it contribute to negative incremental impacts to PCAs and
PRCVs when considered in the context of past, present, and reasonable future
actions; and
         d.   The Conditional or Interim Use will not negatively affect other
resources identified in the City’s MRCCA Plan, such as wetlands, river
overlooks, and parks and open space.
   E.   Conditions of Approval and Mitigation. The City shall evaluate the
impacts to PCAs, PRCVs and other resources identified in the MRCCA Plan, and if
negative impacts are found, require conditions to mitigate the impacts that are
related to and proportional to the impacts. Mitigation may include, but is not
limited to:
      1.   Restoration of vegetation identified as “vegetation restoration
priorities” in the City’s MRCCA Plan;
      2.   Preservation of existing vegetation;
      3.   Increasing, enhancing, and or connecting habitat for pollinators,
birds, and other wildlife;
      4.   Stormwater runoff management;
      5.   Reducing impervious surfaces;
      6.   Increasing structure setbacks;
      7.   Wetland and drainage route restoration and/or preservation;
      8.   Limiting the height of structures;
      9.   Modifying structure design to limit visual impacts on the PRCVs; and
      10.   Other conservation measures.
   F.   Nonconformities.
      1.   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this
Zoning Ordinance may continue and will be regulated consistent with Minnesota
Statutes, Section 462.357, Subd. 1e.
      2.   New structures erected in conformance with the setback averaging
provisions of [Section 12-6A-6] are conforming structures.
      3.   Site alterations and expansion of site alterations that were legally
made prior to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance are conforming. Site
alterations include vegetation, erosion control, stormwater control measures,
and other nonstructural site improvements.
      4.   Legally nonconforming principal structures that do not meet the
setback requirements of Section [12-6A-6C] may be expanded laterally provided
that:
         a.   The expansion does not extend into the Shore or Bluff Impact Zone
or further into the required setback than the building line of the existing
principal structure [Figure 12-6A-3.1]; and
         b.   The expanded structure’s scale and bulk is consistent with that
of the original structure and existing surrounding development.
   Figure 12-6A- 3.1 Expansion of Nonconforming Structures Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2675.png]
 
   G.    Accommodating Disabilities. Reasonable accommodation for ramps and
other facilities to provide persons with disabilities access to the person’s
property, as required by the federal Americans with Disabilities Act and the
federal Fair Housing Act and as provided by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 1341,
must:
      1.   Comply with [Sections
12-6A-6  to
12-6A-15 ]; or
      2.   If Sections [
12-6A-6  to
12-6A-15 ] cannot be complied with, ramps or other facilities are allowed with
an administrative permit provided:
         a.   The permit terminates on either a specific date or upon
occurrence of a particular event related to the person requiring accommodation,
provided that the permit’s termination date may be extended or the termination
event may be modified upon request, as required by federal and state law; and
         b.   Upon expiration of the permit, the ramp or other facilities must
be removed. (Ord. 568, 9-23-2021; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-4: MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA (MRCCA) DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish districts under
which building height and structure placement are regulated to protect and
enhance the Mississippi River’s resources and features consistent with the
natural and built character of each district.
   B.   MRCCA District Map. The locations and boundaries of the MRCCA Districts
established by this Chapter are shown on the MRCCA Overlay District Map which
is incorporated herein by reference. The district boundary lines are intended
to follow the centerlines of rivers and streams, highways, streets, lot lines,
and municipal boundaries, unless a boundary line is otherwise indicated on the
map. Where district boundaries cross property that has not been subdivided, the
district boundary line is determined by the use of dimensions or the scale
appearing on the map. For purposes of determining the application of this
Chapter to any particular parcel of land, the above referenced map shall be on
file in the Office of the Zoning Administrator and shall be available for
inspection and copying.
   C.   District Description and Management Purpose. The MRCCA within the City
is divided into the following three (3) separate MRCCA Districts:
      1.   Rural and Open Space (ROS).
         a.   Description. The ROS District is characterized by rural and low-
density development patterns and land uses, and includes land that is riparian
or visible from the river, as well as large, undeveloped tracts of high
ecological and scenic value, floodplain, and undeveloped islands. Many primary
conservation areas exist in the District.
         b.   Management Purpose. The ROS District must be managed to sustain
and restore the rural and natural character of the corridor and to protect and
enhance habitat, parks and open space, public river corridor views, and scenic,
natural, and historic areas.
      2.   River Neighborhood (RN).
         a.   Description. The RN District is characterized by primarily
residential neighborhoods that are riparian or readily visible from the river
or that abut riparian parkland. The District includes parks and open space,
limited commercial development, marinas, and related land uses.
         b.   Management Purpose. The RN District must be managed to maintain
the character of the river corridor within the context of existing residential
and related neighborhood development, and to protect and enhance habitat, parks
and open space, public river corridor views, and scenic, natural, and historic
areas. Minimizing erosion and the flow of untreated stormwater into the river
and enhancing habitat and shoreline vegetation are priorities in the District.
      3.   Separated from River (SR).
         a.   Description. The SR District is characterized by its physical and
visual distance from the Mississippi River. The District includes land
separated from the river by distance, topography, development, or a
transportation corridor. The land in this District is not readily visible from
the Mississippi River.
      b.   Management Purpose. The SR District provides flexibility in managing
development without negatively affecting the key resources and features of the
river corridor. Minimizing negative impacts to primary conservation areas and
minimizing erosion and the flow of untreated stormwater into the river are
priorities in the District. In addition, providing public access to and public
views of the river, and restoring natural vegetation in riparian areas and tree
canopy are also priorities in the District. (Ord. 568, 9-23-2021; amd. Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-5: SPECIAL LAND USE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to identify development
standards and considerations for land uses that have potential to negatively
impact primary conservation areas and public river corridor views.
   B.   Underlying Zoning. Uses within the MRCCA are generally determined by
underlying zoning, with additional provisions for the following land uses:
      1.   Agricultural use. Perennial ground cover is required within 50-feet
of the ordinary high-water level and within the Bluff Impact Zone.
      2.   Feedlots. New animal feedlots and manure storage areas are
prohibited. Existing animal feedlots and manure storage areas must conform with
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7020.
      3.   Forestry. Tree harvesting and biomass harvesting within woodlands,
and associated reforestation, must be consistent with recommended practices in
Conserving Wooded Areas in Developing Communities: Best Management Practices in
Minnesota, as it may be amended or revised from time to time.
      4.   Nonmetallic mining. Nonmetallic mining requires a Conditional Use
Permit or Interim Use Permit issued by the local government, subject to the
following:
         a.   New nonmetallic mining is prohibited within the Shore Impact Zone
and Bluff Impact Zone and within the required structure setback from the
bluffline and OHWL;
         b.   Processing machinery must be located consistent with setback
standards for structures as provided in [Section
12-6A-6 C];
         c.   Only one barge loading area, which must be limited to the minimum
size practicable, is permitted for each mining operation;
         d.   New and, where practicable, existing nonmetallic mining
operations must not be readily visible and must be screened by establishing and
maintaining natural vegetation. The unscreened boundaries of nonmetallic mining
areas are limited to only the barge loading area;
         e.   A Site Management Plan must be developed by the operator and
approved by the local government before new nonmetallic mining commences.
Operations must be consistent with the Site Plan throughout the duration of
operations at the site. The Site Management Plan must:
            (1)   Describe how the site will be developed over time with an
emphasis on minimizing environmental risk to public waters;
            (2)   Explain where staged reclamation may occur at certain points
during the life of the site;
            (3)   Address dust, noise, stormwater management, possible
pollutant discharges, days and hours of operation, and duration of operations;
and
            (4)   Describe any anticipated vegetation and topographic
alterations outside the pit, and reclamation plans consistent with the stated
end use for the land.
         f.   Existing and new nonmetallic mining operations must submit land
reclamation plans to the local government compatible with the purposes of this
Chapter.
      5.   River-dependent Uses. River-dependent uses must comply with the
following design standards:
         a.   Structures and parking areas, except shoreline facilities and
private roads and conveyances serving river-dependent uses as provided in
[Section 12-6A-15], must meet the dimensional and performance standards in this
Chapter must be designed so that they are not readily visible, and must be
screened by establishing and maintaining natural vegetation;
         b.   Shoreline facilities must comply with Minnesota Rules, Chapter
6115 and must:
            (1)   Be designed in a compact fashion so as to minimize the
shoreline area affected; and
            (2)   Minimize the surface area of land occupied in relation to the
number of watercraft or barges to be served.
         c.   Dredging and placement of dredged material are subject to
existing federal and state permit requirements and agreements.
      6.   Wireless Communication Towers. Wireless communication towers require
a conditional or interim use permit and are subject to the following design
standards:
         a.   The Applicant must demonstrate that functional coverage cannot be
provided through co-location, a tower at a lower height, or a tower at a
location outside of the MRCCA;
         b.   The tower must not be located in a Bluff or Shore Impact Zone;
         c.   Placement of the tower must minimize impacts on public river
corridor views; and
         d.   Comply with the general design standards in Section
12-6A-8 .B. (Ord. 568, 9-23-2021; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-6: STRUCTURE HEIGHT, PLACEMENT AND LOT SIZE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to establish standards that
protect primary conservation areas and public river corridor views from
development impacts and ensure that new development is sited consistent with
the purpose of the MRCCA.
   B.   Structure Height. Structures and facilities must comply with the
following standards unless identified as exempt in [Section
12-6A-15 ].
      1.   ROS District. The lesser of the height standard as determined by the
underlying Zoning District or 35-feet.
      2.   RN District. The lesser of the height standard as determined by the
underlying Zoning District or 35-feet.
      3.   SR District. Height is determined by the underlying Zoning District,
provided the allowed height is consistent with that of the mature tree line,
where present, and existing surrounding development, as viewed from the OHWL of
the opposite shore.
      4.   Height shall be measured on the side of the structure facing the
Mississippi River.
      5.   In addition to the Conditional Use Permit requirements of [Section
12-6A-3 .D], criteria for considering whether to grant a Conditional Use Permit
for structures exceeding the height limits must include:
         a.   Assessment of the visual impact of the proposed structure on
public river corridor views, including views from other communities;
         b.   Determination that the proposed structure meets the required
bluff and OHWL setbacks;
         c.   Identification and application of techniques to minimize the
perceived bulk of the proposed structure, such as:
            (1)   Placing the long axis of the building perpendicular to the
river;
            (2)   Stepping back of portions of the facade;
            (3)   Lowering the roof pitch or use of a flat roof;
            (4)   Using building materials or mitigation techniques that will
blend in with the natural surroundings such as green roofs, green walls, or
other green and brown building materials;
            (5)   Narrowing the profile of upper floors of the building; or
            (6)   Increasing the setbacks of the building from the Mississippi
River or blufflines.
         d.   Identification of techniques for preservation of those view
corridors identified in the MRCCA Plan; and
         e.   Opportunities for creation or enhancement of public river
corridor views.
   C.   Location of Structure and Impervious Surfaces.
      1.   Structures and impervious surfaces must not be placed in the Shore
or Bluff Impact Zones unless identified as an exemption in [Section
12-6A-15 ].
      2.   Structures and facilities, including impervious surfaces, must
comply with the following OHWL setback provisions unless identified as exempt
in [Section
12-6A-15 ].
         a.   ROS District: 200-feet from the Mississippi River and 150-feet
from the Minnesota River.
         b.   RN District: 100-feet from the Mississippi River.
         c.   SR District: (not applicable in the City of Mendota Heights)
      3.   Structures and facilities including impervious surfaces, must comply
with the following bluffline setback provisions unless identified as exempt in
[Section
12-6A-15 ]:
         a.   ROS District: 100-feet.
         b.   RN District: 40-feet.
         c.   SR District: 40-feet.
      4.   Where principal structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides
of a proposed building site, the minimum setback may be altered to conform to
the average of the adjoining setbacks, if the new structure’s scale and bulk
riverward or bluffward of the setbacks required under [Sections
12-6A-6 C2 and
12-6A-6 C3] are consistent with adjoining development. [See Figure
12-6A-6 .1].
Figure 12-6A-6.1 Structure Setback Averaging Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2677.png]
 
      5.    Sub surf ace sew age trea tme nt systems, including the septic tank
and absorption area, must be located at least 75-feet from the ordinary high-
water level of the Mississippi River and all other public waters.
   D.   Lot Size and Buildable Area.
      1.   Lots abutting the Mississippi River in the ROS District must be at
least 200-feet in width, unless alternative design methods are used that
provide greater protection of the riparian area.
      2.   All new lots must have adequate buildable area to comply with the
setback requirements of [Sections
12-6A-6 .C.2 and
12-6A-6 .C.3] so as to not require variances to use the lots for their intended
purpose. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose. To establish design standards for private facilities that are
consistent with best management practices and that minimize impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views, and other resources identified
in the MRCCA Plan.
   B.   General Design Standards. All private facilities must be developed in
accordance with the vegetation management and land alteration and stormwater
management requirements in [Sections
12-6A-9  and
12-6A-10 ].
   C.   Private Roads, Driveways, and Parking Areas. Except as provided in
[Section
12-6A-15 ], private roads, driveways, and parking areas must:
      1.   Be designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography
so that they are not readily visible;
      2.   Comply with structure setback requirements according to [Section
12-6A-6 .C]; and
      3.   Not be placed within the Bluff Impact Zone or Shore Impact Zone,
unless exempt under [Section
12-6A-15 ] and designed consistent with [Section
12-6A-8 .B].
   D.   Private water access and viewing facilities.
      1.   Private access paths must be no more than:
         a.   8-feet (8') wide, if placed within the Shore Impact Zone; and
         b.   4-feet (4') wide, if placed within the Bluff Impact Zone.
      2.   Private water access ramps must:
         a.   Comply with Minnesota Rules, parts 6115.0210 and 6280.0250; and
         b.   Be designed and constructed consistent with the applicable
standards in Design Handbook for Recreational Boating and Fishing Facilities.
      3.   Design and construction of private stairways, lifts, and landings
are subject to the following standards:
         a.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed 4-feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties and
residential facilities held in common, if approved by a Conditional Use Permit;
         b.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet
are allowed for commercial properties and residential facilities held in
common, if approved by a Conditional Use Permit;
         c.   Canopies or roofs are prohibited on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
         d.   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the least
visible portion of the lot whenever practical; and
         e.   Ramps, lifts, mobility paths, or other facilities for persons
with physical disabilities are allowed for achieving access to shore areas
according to [Section
12-6A-7 .D.3.a. through d.], and as provided under [Section
12-6A-3 .G].
      4.   One water-oriented accessory structure is allowed for each riparian
lot or parcel less than 300' in width at the ordinary high-water level, with
one additional water-oriented accessory structure allowed for each additional
300-feet of shoreline on the same lot or parcel. Water-oriented accessory
structures are prohibited in the Bluff Impact Zone and must:
         a.   Not exceed 12-feet in height;
         b.   Not exceed one 120 square feet in area; and
         c.   Be placed a minimum of ten-feet from the ordinary high water
level.
   E.   Decks and Patios in Setback Areas. Decks and at-grade patios may
encroach into the required setbacks from the ordinary high-water level and
blufflines without a variance, when consistent with [Sections
12-6A-9  and
12-6A-10 ], provided that:
      1.   The encroachment of the deck or patio into the required setback area
does not exceed 15 percent of the required structure setback;
      2.   The area of the deck or patio that extends into the required setback
area occupies no more than 25 percent of the total area between the required
setback and the 15 percent using the formula:
[Required setback depth (ft.) x 0.15 x lot width at setback (ft.) x 0.25 =
maximum total area]
      3.   The deck or patio does not extend into the Bluff Impact Zone. [See
Figure 8  - below].
Figure 12-6A-7.1 Deck and Patio Encroachment Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2679.png]
   F.    Fences. Fences between principal structures and the river are allowed
if fences are:
      1.    Not higher than six-feet;
      2.   Not located within the SIZ and BIZ; and
      3.   Not located in the regulatory floodplain. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-8: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose. To establish design standards for public facilities that are
consistent with best management practices and that minimize impacts to primary
conservation areas, public river corridor views and other resources identified
in the MRCCA Plan. Public facilities serve the public interest by providing
public access to the Mississippi River corridor or require locations in or
adjacent to the river corridor and therefore require some degree of
flexibility.
   B.   General Design Standards. All public facilities must be designed and
constructed to:
      1.   Minimize visibility of the facility from the river to the extent
consistent with the purpose of the facility;
      2.   Comply with the structure placement and height standards in [Section
12-6A-6 ], except as provided in [Section
12-6A-15 ];
      3.   Be consistent with the vegetation management standards in [Section
12-6A-9 ] and the land alteration and stormwater management standards in
[Section 12-3-10], including use of practices identified in Best Practices for
Meeting DNR General Public Waters Work Permit GP 2004-0001, as may be amended
or revised from time to time, where applicable;
      4.   Avoid primary conservation areas, unless no alternative exists. If
no alternative exists, then disturbance to primary conservation areas must be
avoided to the greatest extent practicable, and design and construction must
minimize impacts; and
      5.   Minimize disturbance of spawning and nesting times by scheduling
construction at times when local fish and wildlife are not spawning or nesting;
      6.   Minimize disturbance during bird migration and nesting times by
scheduling construction at times when birds are not migrating or nesting.
   C.   Right-of-Way Maintenance Standards. Right-of-way maintenance must
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Vegetation currently in a natural state must be maintained to the
extent feasible;
      2.   Where vegetation in a natural state has been removed, native plants
must be planted and maintained on the right-of-way; and
      3.   Chemical control of vegetation must be avoided when practical, but
when chemical control is necessary, the chemicals used must be in accordance
with the regulations and other requirements of all state and federal agencies
with authority over the chemical’s use.
   D.   Crossings of Public Waters or Public Land. Crossings of public waters
or land controlled by the Commissioner are subject to approval by the
Commissioner according to Minnesota Statutes, Sections 84.415 and 103G.245.
   E.   Public Utilities. Public utilities must comply with the following
standards:
      1.   High-voltage transmission lines, wind energy conversion systems
greater than five (5) megawatts, and pipelines are regulated according to
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216E, 216F, and 216G respectively; and
      2.   If overhead placement is necessary, utility facility crossings must
minimize the visibility of the facility from the river and follow other
existing right of ways as much as practicable.
      3.   The appearance of structures must be as compatible as practicable
with the surrounding area in a natural state with regard to height and width,
materials used, and color.
      4.   Wireless communication facilities must comply with [Section
12-6A-5 .B.6].
   F.   Public Transportation Facilities. Public transportation facilities
shall comply with the structure placement and height standards in [Section
12-6A-6 .] Where such facilities intersect or abut two or more MRCCA Districts,
the least restrictive standards apply. Public transportation facilities must be
designed and constructed to give priority to:
      1.   Providing scenic overlooks for motorists, bicyclists, and
pedestrians;
      2.   Providing safe pedestrian crossings and facilities along the river
corridor;
      3.   Providing access to the riverfront in public ownership; and
      4.   Allowing for use of the land between the river and the
transportation facility.
   G.   Public Recreational Facilities. Public recreational facilities must
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Buildings and parking associated with public recreational facilities
must comply with the structure placement and height standards in [Section
12-6A-6 ], except as provided in Section [
12-6A-15 ];
      2.   Roads and driveways associated with public recreational facilities
must not be placed in the Bluff or Shore Impact Zones unless no other placement
alternative exists. If no alternative exists, then design and construction must
minimize impacts to shoreline vegetation, erodible soils and slopes, and other
sensitive resources.
      3.   Trails, access paths, and viewing areas associated with public
recreational facilities and providing access to or views of the Mississippi
River are allowed within the Bluff and Shore Impact Zones if design,
construction, and maintenance methods are consistent with the best management
practice guidelines in the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources’ Trail
Planning, Design, and Development Guidelines, as they may be amended or revised
from time to time.
         a.   Hard-surface trails are not allowed on the face of bluffs with a
slope exceeding 30 percent. Natural surface trails are allowed, provided they
do not exceed 8-feet in width.
         b.   Trails, paths, and viewing areas must be designed and constructed
to minimize:
            (1)   Visibility from the river;
            (2)   Visual impacts on public river corridor views; and
            (3)   Disturbance to and fragmentation of primary conservation
areas.
      4.   Public water access facilities must comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   Watercraft access ramps must comply with Minnesota Rules,
Chapters 6115.0210 and 6280.0250; and
         b.   Facilities must be designed and constructed consistent with the
standards in the Design Handbook for Recreational Boating and Fishing
Facilities, as they may be amended or revised from time to time.
      5.   Public signs and kiosks for interpretive or directional purposes are
allowed in the Bluff or Shore Impact Zones, provided they are placed and
constructed to minimize disturbance to these areas and avoid visual impacts on
public river corridor views. If illuminated, the lighting must be fully
shielded and be directed downward.
      6.   Public stairways, lifts, and landings must be designed as provided
in [Section
12-6A-7 .D.3]. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-9: VEGETATION MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Purpose. To establish standards that sustain and enhance the biological
and ecological functions of vegetation; preserve the natural character and
topography of the MRCCA; and maintain the stability of bluffs and steep slopes
and ensure stability of other erosion-prone areas.
   B.   Applicability. This Section applies to:
      1.   Shore Impact Zones;
      2.   Areas within 50-feet of a wetland or natural drainage route;
      3.   Bluff Impact Zones;
      4.   Areas of native plant communities; and
      5.   Significant existing vegetation stands identified in the MRCCA Plan.
   C.   Activities Allowed Without a Vegetation Permit.
      1.   Maintenance of existing lawns, landscaping and gardens.
      2.   Removal of vegetation in emergency situations as determined by the
City.
      3.   Right-of-way maintenance for public facilities meeting the standards
in [Section
12-6A-8 .C].
      4.   Agricultural and forestry activities meeting the standards of
[Section
12-6A-5 .B.1 and 12-6A-5.B.3].
      5.   Selective vegetation removal, provided that vegetative cover remains
consistent with the management purpose of the MRCCA District, including the
removal of:
         a.   Vegetation that is dead, diseased, dying, or hazardous;
         b.   Vegetation to prevent the spread of diseases or insect pests;
         c.   An individual tree or shrub; and
         d.   Invasive non-native species.
   D.   Activities Allowed With a Vegetation Permit.
      1.   Only the following intensive vegetation clearing activities are
allowed with a vegetation permit:
         a.   Clearing of vegetation that is dead, diseased, dying, or
hazardous;
         b.   Clearing to prevent the spread of diseases or insect pests;
         c.   Clearing to remove invasive, non-native species;
         d.   Selective removal of keystone species;
         e.   Clearing to prepare for restoration and erosion control
management activities consistent with a plan approved by the City; and
         f.   The minimum necessary for development that is allowed with a
building permit or as an exemption under [Section
12-6A-15 ].
      2.   General Performance Standards. The following standards must be met,
in addition to a restoration plan under [Section
12-6A-9 .F], in order for the City to approve a vegetation permit:
         a.   Development is sited to minimize removal of or disturbance to
natural vegetation;
         b.   Soil slope stability, and hydrologic conditions are suitable for
the proposed work as determined by the Public Works Director;
         c.   Clearing is the minimum necessary and designed to blend with the
natural terrain and minimize visual impacts to public river corridor views and
other scenic views;
         d.   Vegetation removal activities are conducted to expose the
smallest practical area of soil to erosion for the least possible time, and to
avoid bird migration and nesting seasons; and
         e.   Any other condition determined necessary to achieve the purpose
of this Section.
   E.   Prohibited Activities. All other intensive vegetation clearing is
prohibited.
   F.   Vegetation Restoration Plan.
      1.   Development of a Vegetation Restoration Plan and reestablishment of
native vegetation is required.
         a.   For any vegetation removed with a permit issued under [Section
12-6A-9 .D];
         b.   Upon failure to comply with any provisions in this Section; or
         c.   As part of the planning process for subdivisions as provided in
[Section
12-6A-11 ].
      2.   Restoration Plan Performance Standards. The Vegetation Restoration
Plan must satisfy the application submittal requirements in [Section
12-6A-12 ] and:
         a.   Vegetation must be restored in one or more of the following
restoration priority areas:
            (1)   Areas with soils showing signs of erosion, especially on or
near the top and bottom of steep slopes and bluffs;
            (2)   Shoreline areas within 25' of the water with no natural
vegetation, degraded vegetation, or planted with turf grass;
            (3)   Areas on steep slopes and bluffs that are visible from the
river with no natural vegetation, degraded vegetation, or planted with turf
grass; or
            (4)   Other approved priority opportunity areas, including
priorities identified in the MRCCA Plan.
         b.   Include native vegetation that provides suitable habitat and
effective soil stability, runoff retention, and infiltration capability.
Vegetation species, composition, density, and diversity must be guided by
nearby patches of native plant communities and by Native Vegetation
Establishment and Enhancement Guidelines, as they may be amended or revised
from time to time.
         c.   Any highly erodible soils disturbed during removal and/or
restoration must be stabilized with deep-rooted vegetation with a high stem
density.
         d.   Vegetation removed must be restored with native vegetation to the
greatest extent practicable. The area (square feet) of the restored vegetation
should be similar to that removed to the greatest extent practicable.
         e.   For restoration of removed native plant communities, restored
vegetation must also provide biological and ecological function equivalent to
the removed native plant communities. The area (square feet) of the restored
vegetation should be equivalent to that removed to the greatest extent
practicable.
         f.   Be prepared by a qualified individual or a licensed professional
familiar with and experienced with native landscape materials and planting
techniques; and
         g.   Include a maintenance plan that includes management provisions
for controlling invasive species and replacement of plant loss for three (3)
years.
      3.   The City will issue a certificate of compliance after the Vegetation
Restoration Plan requirements have been completed to the satisfaction of Public
Works Director. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-10: LAND ALTERATION STANDARDS AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Purpose. To establish standards that protect water quality from
pollutant loadings of sediment, nutrients, bacteria, and other contaminants,
and maintain the stability of bluffs, shorelines, and other areas prone to
erosion.
   B.   Land Alteration.
      1.   Within the Bluff Impact Zone, land alteration is prohibited, except
for the following, which are allowed only by permit.
         a.   Erosion control consistent with a plan approved by the City and
consistent with [Section
12-6A-10 .F.]
         b.   The minimum necessary for development that is allowed as an
exception under [Section
12-6A-15 ]; and
         c.   Repair and maintenance of existing buildings and facilities.
      2.   Within the water quality impact zone, land alteration that involves
more than ten (10) cubic yards of material or affects an area greater than one
1,000 square feet requires a permit.
   C.   Rock Riprap, Retaining Walls, and other Erosion Control Structures.
      1.   Construction, repair, or replacement of rock riprap, retaining
walls, and other erosion control structures located at or below the OHWL must
comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 6115.0215, Subp. 4, Item E, and 6115.0216,
Subp. 2. Work must not proceed until approved by the Commissioner, permitted by
the US Army Corps of Engineers and all other permits are obtained. [See
Figure 12-6A-10.1 ].
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2681.png]
 
   Figure 12-6A-10.1. Rip Rap Guidelines Diagram
      2.    Construction or replacement of rock riprap, retaining walls, and
other erosion control structures within the Bluff Impact Zone and the water
quality impact zone are allowed with a permit consistent with the provisions of
[Section 12-3-10.F] provided that:
         a.   If the project includes work at or below the OHWL, the
Commissioner must approve or permit the project.
         b.   The structures are used only to correct an established erosion
problem as determined by the City.
         c.   The size and extent of the structures are the minimum necessary
to correct the erosion problem and are not larger than the following, unless a
professional engineer determines that a larger structure is needed to correct
the erosion problem:
            (1)   Retaining walls must not exceed 5-feet in height and must be
placed a minimum horizontal distance of 10-feet apart; and
            (2)   Riprap must not exceed the height of the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      3.   Repair of existing rock riprap, retaining walls, and other erosion
control structures above the OHWL does not require a permit provided it does
not involve any land alteration.
   D.   Stormwater Management.
      1.   In the Bluff Impact Zone, stormwater management facilities are
prohibited, except by permit if:
         a.   There are no alternatives for stormwater treatment outside the
Bluff Impact Zone on the subject site;
         b.   The site generating runoff is designed so that the amount of
runoff reaching the Bluff Impact Zone is reduced to the greatest extent
practicable;
         c.   The construction and operation of the facility does not affect
slope stability on the subject property or adjacent properties; and
         d.   Mitigation based on the best available engineering and geological
practices is required and applied to eliminate or minimize the risk of slope
failure.
      2.   In the Water Quality Impact Zone, development that creates new
impervious surface, as allowed by exemption in [Section
12-6A-15 ], or fully reconstructs existing impervious surface of more than
10,000 square feet requires a Stormwater Permit. Multipurpose trails and
sidewalks are exempt if there is down-gradient vegetation or a filter strip
that is at least 5-feet wide.
      3.   In all other areas, stormwater runoff must be directed away from the
Bluff Impact Zones or unstable areas.
   E.   Development on Steep Slopes. Construction of structures, impervious
surfaces, land alteration, vegetation removal, or other construction activities
may be allowed on steep slopes, except for those areas in the Bluff Impact
Zone, and only if:
      1.   The Applicant can demonstrate that the proposed development can be
accomplished without increasing erosion or stormwater runoff;
      2.   The soil types and geology are suitable for the proposed
development; and
      3.   Vegetation is managed according to the requirements of [Section
12-6A-9 ].
   F.   Conditions of Land Alteration Permit Approval. No permit for land
alteration shall be approved unless:
      1.   Temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control measures to
retain sediment onsite are consistent with the best management practices in the
Minnesota Stormwater Manual, as it may be amended or revised from time to time;
      2.   Natural site topography, and soil and vegetation conditions are used
to control runoff and reduce erosion and sedimentation;
      3.   Construction activity is phased when possible;
      4.   All erosion and sediment controls are installed before starting any
land disturbance activity;
      5.   Erosion and sediment controls are maintained to ensure effective
operation;
      6.   The proposed work is consistent with the vegetation standards in
Section [
12-6A-9 ]; and
      7.   Best management practices are used for protecting and enhancing
ecological and water resources as identified in Best Practices for Meeting DNR
General Public Waters Work Permit GP 2004-0001, as it may be amended or revised
from time to time.
   G.   Compliance with Other Plans and Programs. All development must:
      1.   Be consistent with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 103B, and local water
management plans completed under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 8410;
      2.   Meet or exceed the wetland protection standards under Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 8420; and
      3.   Meet or exceed the floodplain management standards under Minnesota
Rules, Sections 6120. 5000 - 6120.6200. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-11: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose.
      1.   To protect and enhance the natural and scenic values of the MRCCA
during development or redevelopment of the remaining large sites within the
corridor;
      2.   To establish standards for protecting and restoring biological and
ecological functions of primary conservation areas on large sites; and
      3.   To encourage restoration of native vegetation during development or
redevelopment of large sites where restoration opportunities have been
identified in MRCCA Plans.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   The design standards in this Section apply to subdivisions, planned
unit developments, and master-planned development and redevelopment of land
involving ten (10) or more acres for contiguous parcels that abut the
Mississippi River and 20 or more acres for all other parcels, including smaller
individual sites within the following developments that are part of a common
plan of development that may be constructed at different times:
         a.   Subdivisions;
         b.   Planned Unit Developments; and
         c.   Master-planned development and redevelopment of land.
      2.   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this
Section:
         a.   Minor subdivisions consisting of two (2) or fewer lots;
         b.   Minor boundary line corrections;
         c.   Resolutions of encroachments;
         d.   Additions to existing lots of record;
         e.   Placement of essential services; and
         f.   Activities involving river-dependent commercial and industrial
uses.
      3.   Application materials. Project information listed in [Section
12-6A-12 ] must be submitted for all proposed developments.
      4.   Design standards.
         a.   Primary conservation areas, where they exist, must be set aside
and designated as protected open space in quantities meeting the following as a
percentage of total parcel area:
            (1)   ROS District: 50 percent;
            (2)   RN District: 20 percent; and
            (3)   SR District: Ten percent if the parcel includes native plant
communities or provides feasible connections to a regional park or trail
system, otherwise no requirement.
         b.   If the primary conservation areas exceed the amounts specified in
[Section
12-6A-11 .B.4.(a)], then protection of native plant communities and natural
vegetation in riparian areas shall be prioritized.
         c.   If primary conservation areas exist but do not have natural
vegetation (identified as restoration priorities in the MRCCA Plan), then a
vegetation assessment must be completed to evaluate the unvegetated primary
conservation areas and determine whether vegetation restoration is needed. If
restoration is needed, vegetation must be restored according to [Section
12-6A-9 .F].
         d.   If primary conservation areas do not exist on the parcel and
portions of the parcel have been identified in the MRCCA Plan as a restoration
area, vegetation must be restored in the identified areas according to [Section
12-6A-9 .F], and the area must be set aside and designated as protected open
space.
         e.   Stormwater treatment areas or other green infrastructure may be
used to meet the protected open space requirements if the vegetation provides
biological and ecological functions.
         f.   Transfer of development rights or the dedication of steep slopes,
drainageways and wetlands as allowed under [Section
11-1-8 ], or the dedication of land for public uses, including (but not limited
to) public river access, parks, other open spaces or public facilities, and as
allowed under [Section
11-5-1 ] of the Mendota Heights City Code, may be counted toward the protected
open space requirement.
         g.   Protected open space areas must connect open space, natural
areas, and recreational areas, where present on adjacent parcels, as much as
possible to form an interconnected network.
      5.   Permanent protection of designated open space.
         a.   Designated open space areas must be protected through one or more
of the following methods:
            (1)   Public acquisition by a government entity for conservation
purposes;
            (2)   A permanent conservation easement, as provided in Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 84C;
            (3)   A deed restriction; or
            (4)   Other arrangements that achieve an equivalent degree of
protection.
         b.   Permanent protection methods must ensure the long-term management
of vegetation to meet its biological and ecological functions, prohibit
structures, and prohibit land alteration, except as needed to provide public
recreational facilities and access to the river.
      6.   Alternative design standards. The City will consider the following
alternative design option to increase the permanent protection of Primary
Conservation Areas (PCAs) in subdivisions and other new developments in the
MRCCA District and encourage restoration of native vegetation communities:
         a.   The City will grant density bonuses to increase the permanent
protection of PCAs and/or native plant communities up to 20 percent of the
parcel area in the RN and SR Districts, provided the protection and restoration
of the entire development site is consistent with the requirements of this
Section;
         b.   The City may approve density bonuses for a subdivision when the
proposed subdivision meets the objectives and requirements of this Chapter to
protect and preserve bluffs, steep slopes, native vegetation, natural
resources, views of the bluffs area, and open space; and
         c.   The City shall determine the amount and location of the density
bonus permitted for each subdivision based on site conditions, zoning district
regulations, and potential impacts to the site and surrounding areas.
         d.   Alterative design standards may be considered through a planned
unit development or cluster development. Individual lots in a planned unit
development or cluster development may not be required to meet the design
standards of this Section if it can be demonstrated that the overall
development is compliant with the standards and purpose of this Section. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-12: SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Site Plan Required. No building permit, zoning approval, or subdivision
approval shall be issued for any action or development located in an area
covered by this Chapter until a Site Plan has been prepared and approved in
accordance with the provisions of this
   B.   Site Plan Application. An official Critical Area Permit Application
with a completed Site Plan shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator
containing evidence adequate to show that the proposed use will conform with
the standards set forth in this Chapter. Three (3) full sets of plans (either
22" x 34" or 24" x 36" sized sheets), three (3) tabloid sized (11" x 17") plan
sets, plus an electronic file (PDF preferred) of the full application materials
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. No permit application shall be
reviewed until it is complete.
   C.   Site Plan Contents. A fully detailed Survey or Site Plan drawn to scale
appropriate to the size of the project and suitable for the review to be
performed, shall contain the following information:
      1.   A detailed description or narrative prepared by the owner(s) or
developer(s) of the proposed project or development.
      2.   A complete and legible legal description, address and location of
the property, with the name and address of the legal registered owner(s) and
developer(s) of the property.
      3.   A detailed plan identifying the subject property, adjoining lands,
roads, railroads, existing subdivisions, any primary conservation areas (PCA);
public river corridor views, ordinary high-water level (OHWL) of any adjacent
or affected wetlands features, bluff-lines, and all required setbacks.
      4.   Existing topography as indicated on a contour map having a contour
interval no greater than 2-feet per contour. The contour map shall also clearly
delineate any bluff line, Bluff Impact Zone, all streams, including
intermittent streams and swales, rivers, water bodies, any identifiable
underground springs, and wetlands located on the site.
      5.   A plan delineating the existing drainage of the water setting forth
in which direction the volume, and at what rate the stormwater is conveyed from
the site. The plan must also include those areas on the site where stormwater
collects and is gradually percolated into the ground or slowly released to a
stream or lake.
      6.   A description of the soils on the site, including a map indicating
all soil types by area to be disturbed. The description shall also include a
soil report containing detailed information on the suitability of the soils for
the type of development proposed as well as for the type of sewage disposal
proposed. The plan must also describe any remedial steps to be taken by the
developer to render the soils suitable. All areas proposed for grading shall be
identified by soil type, both as to soil type of existing topsoil and soil type
of the new contour. The location and extent of any erosion areas shall be
included in the soils description.
      7.   A description of any features, buildings, or areas which are of
historic significance.
      8.   A plan indicating the proposed finished grades of the project
development site illustrating contours at the same intervals proposed above or
in more detail if required to clearly indicate the relationship of proposed
changes to existing topography and remaining features.
      9.   A landscape plan drawn to an appropriate scale, including
dimensions, distance, location, type, size, and description of all existing and
significant vegetation, clearly locating and describing any vegetation proposed
for removal and all proposed landscape materials which will be added to the
site as part of the development. All new landscaping must include native
varieties of deciduous, coniferous, and ornamental trees and shrubs, along with
new pollinator friendly plants and vegetation, and no invasive species.
      10.   A proposed drainage plan of the developed site delineating in which
direction, volume, and at what rate stormwater will be conveyed from the site
and setting forth the areas of the site where stormwater will be allowed to
collect and gradually percolate into the soil, or be slowly released to a
stream or lake. The plan shall also set forth the hydraulic capacity of all
structures to be constructed or exiting structures to be utilized, including
volume or holding ponds.
      11.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan indicating the type,
location, and necessary technical information on control measures to be taken
both during and after construction, including the calculated anticipated gross
soil loss expressed in tons/acres/year both during and after construction.
      12.   The proposed size, placement, alignment, height, and intended use
of any structures, including retaining walls, to be erected or located on the
site.
      13.   A clear delineation of all areas which will be paved or surfaced
including a description of the surfacing material to be used.
      14.   A description of the method to be provided for vehicular and
pedestrian access to the proposed development and public access to the river
and/or public river view opportunities both before and after development. The
description must also include the development’s impact on existing views of and
along the river.
      15.   A description of all parking facilities to be provided as part of
the development, including an analysis of parking needs generated by the
proposed development.
      16.   A clear delineation of the area or areas to be dedicated for public
use.
      17.   A clear delineation of the location and amount of excavated soils
to be stored on the site during construction.
      18.   Any other information pertinent to the project, which in the
opinion of City Staff and/or the Applicant, is necessary or helpful for the
review of the project.
   D.   Minor Development. A minor development and/or minor change involving a
single-family dwelling, may be approved by the City Council without a Public
Hearing if the project plans conform to the general standards of this Chapter.
The City Administrator shall bring the request to the attention of the City
Council at its next regular meeting following receipt of an administrative
Critical Area Permit Application.
   Eligible projects include, but are not limited to, minor building additions,
decks, fences, driveways, walkways, stairs, open patios or outdoor sitting
areas, accessory storage sheds, gazebos, chicken coops, retaining walls 2-feet
or less in height, landscaping materials and gardens, and similar structures.
Proposed projects and sites must comply with the following conditions:
      1.   No part of the project shall impact any area with slopes greater
than 18 percent.
      2.   No part of the project shall impact, disturb or be situated in a
bluffline setback area as defined by this Chapter, whether on the same parcel
or on an abutting parcel of land,
      3.   The proposed project shall not expand the enclosed area of the
principal or accessory structures by more than 200 square feet.
      4.   The proposed project shall not increase or exceed the height of any
existing structure.
      5.   The proposed project shall be in compliance with all other
requirements of this Chapter, and any other applicable regulations.
      6.   The proposed project shall not result in significant changes to the
existing finished grade.
      7.   The proposed project areas shall include native vegetation. (Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-13: OFFICIAL REVIEW PROCESS:
Proposed developments or activities within the MRCCA shall be subject to the
following review procedure:
   A.   Referral to Planning Commission. Except as otherwise provided in
[Subsection
12-5B-4 B (Minor Developments)] of this Chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall
refer all Critical Area Permits and Site Plans to the Planning Commission.
   B.   Planning Commission Notice and Hearing on Application and Site Plan.
The Planning Commission shall hold a Public Hearing affording an opportunity
for all parties interested to be heard. The City shall give not less than ten
(10) nor more than 30 days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing. Notice
of the hearing shall be published in the designated legal newspaper for the
City, and shall contain a description of the land and the proposed use. At
least ten (10) days before the hearing, the City shall mail a notice to the
owner(s) of the property in question and to each of the property owners within
350-feet of the outside boundaries of the land described in the Site Plan.
Failure of the City to mail such notice or failure of the property owners to
receive said notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
   Within 60 days after the date the City receives a complete application , and
unless the statutory review period as provided for under Minnesota Statute §
15.99 is extended or waived by the Applicant or the City as permitted by law,
the Planning Commission shall conduct a hearing and forward a written report to
the City Council stating its findings and recommendation.
   C.   City Council Consideration on Application and Site Plan. Within 30 days
after the receipt of the written report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall meet and give full consideration to the
application, Site Plan, written report, and recommendation, without a Public
Hearing.
   If the Planning Commission fails to make a written report or recommendation
to the City Council within 60 days after the acceptance of the application and
Site Plan, and unless the statutory review period has been expressly waived by
the Applicant as allowed under Minnesota Statute § 15.99, the City shall set an
additional Public Hearing before the City Council. The hearing must be held
within 30 days after the expiration of the 60 day period. Failure to receive a
written report and recommendation from the Planning Commission shall not
invalidate the proceedings or action of the City Council.
   The City shall give not less than ten (10) nor more than 30 days mailed
notice of the time and place of a hearing to the owner(s) of the property in
question and to each of the property owners within 350-feet of the outside
boundaries of the land described in the Site Plan. Failure of the property
owners to receive the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
   After its consideration of an application and Site Plan, either with or
without a Public Hearing, the City Council may take final action upon the
application and Site Plan or may continue the hearing for further investigation
and study. The City Council may also request further information from the
Applicant or from the Planning Commission.
   D.   Amendments. Any proposed amendment to this Chapter may be referred to
the Planning Commission for its consideration and recommendations. (Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
12-6A-14: NOTIFICATION TO RESOURCE AGENCIES:
   A.   Amendments to this Chapter and to the MRCCA Plan must be submitted to
the Commissioner as provided in Minnesota Rule, Part 6106.0070, Subp. 3, items
B-1, and via email to the appropriate DNR Area Hydrologist.
   B.   Notice of Public Hearings for discretionary actions, including Critical
Area Permits, Conditional and Interim Use Permits, variances, appeals,
rezonings, preliminary plats, final subdivision plats, master plans, and PUDs,
must be sent to the following entities at least 20 days prior to the hearing:
      1.   The Commissioner in a format prescribed by the DNR;
      2.   National Park Service; and
      3.   Where proposed building heights exceed the height limits specified
in [Section
12-6A-6 ] as part of the conditional use or variance process, to the adjoining
local governments within the MRCCA, including those with overlapping
jurisdiction and those across the river.
   C.   Notice of final decisions for actions in [Section
12-6A-13 ], including findings of fact, must be sent to the Commissioner, the
National Park Service, and adjoining local governments within the MRCCA within
(10) days of the final decision.
   D.   Requests to amend district boundaries must follow Minnesota Rule part
6106.0100, Subp. 9, Item C.
   E.   The DNR must be notified of master plans, PUDs, preliminary and final
plats at the time of application submittal. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-6A-15: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Purpose. To provide exemptions to structure placement, height and other
standards for specific river or water access dependent facilities as provided
in Minnesota Statutes, Section 116G.15 Subd. 4.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Uses and activities not specifically exempted in this Section must
comply with this Chapter. Uses and activities exempted under Shore Impact Zone
and Bluff Impact Zone must comply with the vegetation management and land
alteration standards in [Sections
12-6A-9  and
12-6A-10 ].
      2.   Uses and activities in [Section
12-6A-15 .B.3] are categorized as:
         a.   E - Exempt means that the use or activity is allowed;
         b.   (E) - Exempt if no alternative means that the use or activity is
allowed only if no alternatives exist; and
         c.   N - Not exempt means that a use or activity is not exempt and
must meet the standards of this Chapter
         d.   N/a - not applicable.
      3.   Use and activity exemptions classification.
         a.   General uses and activities.
   Table 12-6A-15.1 General Uses and Activities
                                                                 Applicable
                                       Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
   Table 12-6A-15.1 General Uses and Activities
                                                                 Applicable
                                       Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
Industrial and
utility
structures                                                       Structure
requiring                                                        design and
greater height                                                   placement must
for operational N        E             N            N            minimize
reasons (such                                                    interference
as elevators,                                                    with public
refineries and                                                   river corridor
railroad                                                         views.
signaling
towers)
Barns, silos,
and farm        N        E             N            N             
structures
                                                                 Applicable
                                       Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
Bridges and                                                      [Section
bridge approach E        E             E            (E)          12-6A-8]
roadways
Wireless                                                         [Section
communication   E        E             N            N            12-6A-5.B.6]
towers
Chimneys,
church spires,
flag poles,
public          N        E             N            N             
monuments, and
mechanical
stacks and
equipment
Historic                                                         Exemptions do
properties and                                                   not apply to
contributing    E        E             E            E            additions or
properties in                                                    site
historic                                                         alterations
districts
 
      b.   Public utilities.
Table 12-6A-15.2 Public Utilities
 
                                                                 Applicable
                                       Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
Electrical                                                       [Section
power           E        E             E            (E)          12-6A-8]
facilities
Essential
services (other E        E             E            (E)          [Section
than stormwater                                                  12-6A-8]
facilities)
Stormwater      E        N             E            (E)          [Section
facilities                                                       12-6A-10]
Wastewater      E        N             E            N            [Section
facilities                                                       12-6A-8]
Public                                                           [Section
transportation  E        N             (E)          (E)          12-6A-8]
facilities
 
      c.   Public recreational facilities.
   Table 12-6A-15.3 Public Recreational Facilities
                                                                 Applicable
                                       Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Use or Activity Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
   Table 12-6A-15.3 Public Recreational Facilities
                                                                Applicable
Use or                                Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Activity       Setbacks Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                or activity
                                                                must comply
Accessory                                                       [Section
structures,                                                     12-6A-8 ],
such as                                                         within BIZ,
monuments,                                                      only on slopes
flagpoles,     E        E             (E)          (E)          averaging less
light                                                           than 30%.
standards, and                                                  Exemptions do
similar park                                                    not apply to
features                                                        principal
                                                                structures.
Picnic
shelters and                                                    [Section
other open-    E        N             (E)          N            12-6A-8 ]
sided
structures
                                                                [Section
                                                                12-6A-8 ;
                                                                within BIZ,
                                                                only within 20-
                                                                feet of toe of
Parking lots   (E)      N             (E)          (E)          bluff; not on
                                                                face of bluff;
                                                                and must not
                                                                affect
                                                                stability of
                                                                bluff
Roads and      (E)      N             (E)          (E)          [Section
driveways                                                       12-6A-8 ]
Natural-
surfaced
trails, access E        N             E            E            [Section
paths, and                                                      12-6A-8 ]
viewing
platforms
Hard-surfaced                                                   [Section 12-6A-
trails and                                                      8; within BIZ,
viewing        E        N             E            (E)          only on slopes
platforms                                                       averaging less
                                                                than 30%
Water access   E        N             E            (E)          [Section
ramps                                                           12-6A-8 ]
Public signs
and kiosks for                                                  [Section
interpretive   E        N             E            (E)          12-6A-8 ]
or directional
purposes
 
      d.   River-dependent uses.
 
Table 12-6A-15.4 River-Dependent Uses
                                                                 Applicable
Use or                                 Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Activity       Setback s Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
                                                                 [Section
                                                                 12-6A-5.B.5].
                                                                 Exemptions do
                                                                 not apply to
Shoreline                                                        buildings,
facilities     E         N1            E            (E)          structures,
                                                                 and parking
                                                                 areas that are
                                                                 not part of a
                                                                 shoreline
                                                                 facility
Private roads
and conveyance                                                   [Section
structures     E         N1            E            (E)          12-6A-5.B.5]
serving river-
dependent uses
 
      1.   River-dependent commercial, industrial and utility structures are
exempt from height limits only if greater height is required for operational
reasons.
         e.   Private residential and commercial access and use facilities.
Table 12-6A-15.5 Private Residential and Commercial Access and Use
Facilities
                                                           Applicable
Use or                           Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Activity Setback s Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                           or activity
                                                           must comply
Table 12-6A-15.5 Private Residential and Commercial Access and Use Facilities
                                                                 Applicable
Use or                                 Shore Impact Bluff Impact standards with
Activity       Setback s Height Limits Zone (SIZ)   Zone (BIZ)   which the use
                                                                 or activity
                                                                 must comply
                                                                 [Section
                                                                 12-6A-7 ]; in
                                                                 BIZ, only on
                                                                 slopes
                                                                 averaging less
Private roads                                                    than 30%.
serving 3 or   (E)       N             N            (E)          Exemption does
more lots                                                        not apply to
                                                                 private roads
                                                                 serving fewer
                                                                 than 3 lots or
                                                                 to private
                                                                 driveways and
                                                                 parking areas
Access paths   E         N             E            E            [Section
                                                                 12-6A-7 ]
Water access   E         N             E            N            [Section
ramps                                                            12-6A-7 ]
Stairways,                                                       [Section
lifts and      E         N             E            E            12-6A-7 ]
landings
Water-oriented                                                   [Section 12-
accessory      E         N             E            N            6A3-7]
structures
Patios and     E         N             N            N            [Section
decks                                                            12-6A-7.E]
Temporary
storage of
docks, boats,
and other      E         N             E            N             
equipment
during the
winter months
Erosion
control                                                          [Sections
structures,                                                      12-6A-10.C,
such as rock   E         N             E            (E)          12-6A-10.E,
riprap and                                                       and 12-3-10.F]
retaining
walls
Flood control  E         N             E            (E)          [Section
structures                                                       12-6A-10]
 
(Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 7
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
12-7A-1: Findings And Purpose Statement
12-7A-2: Building Structure Appearance And Maintenance Requirements
12-7A-3: Exterior Property Public Health and Safety Requirements
12-7A-4: Firewood Storage
12-7A-5: Other Outdoor Storage
12-7A-6: Accumulations And Hazardous Material
12-7A-7: Rubbish And Garbage
12-7A-8: Storm Drainage
12-7A-9: Temporary Goat Grazing
12-7A-10: Abatement And Enforcement Procedures
12-7A-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE STATEMENT:
   A.   The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the city to
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. To this
end, the city believes that by adoption of these residential property
maintenance regulations, it will further the following objectives:
      1.   To preserve the value of residential property within the city;
      2.   To protect the character and stability of neighborhoods within the
city;
      3.   To provide for minimum standards of maintenance for residential
property within the city and ensure compliance;
      4.   To cause correction to conditions on residential property that do
not comply with the standards of maintenance established herein.
      5.   Assist in identification and correction of dangerous or life
threatening conditions that may be identified within the city.
      6.   Provide a mechanism to mitigate potential public health issues
identified within the city. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-2: BUILDING STRUCTURE APPEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any building or structure, including an accessory structure, is a
public nuisance if its exterior does not comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   All exterior property shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and
sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the exterior property,
which such occupant occupies, or controls in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   All dwellings, garages and other residential accessory buildings
shall have complete siding. No part of any exterior surface shall have
significant deterioration including, but not limited to, holes, breaks, gaps,
or loose or rotting siding. All exterior surfaces of the structure including,
but not limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches and trim,
shall be maintained in a good and safe condition. Exterior wood surfaces on the
structures, other than decay resistant woods, stucco or other materials that do
not normally require protection from the elements shall be protected from the
elements and decay by staining, painting or other protective covering or
treatment or other appropriate method acceptable to the city. (Ord. 401, 7-19-
2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-3: EXTERIOR PROPERTY PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any building or structure in the city that is found by an authorized
employee or agent of the city to be dangerous to public safety or health by
reason of the following is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a
hazardous structure or condition:
      1.   Damaged by fire, storm, or vandalism;
      2.   Defective chimneys or stovepipes;
      3.   Dilapidated condition or decay; or
      4.   Any other defect endangering the public safety or health.
   B.   Any structure which is damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe, vermin or rodent infested, presents environmental health risks or which
lacks provisions for safe illumination, ventilation, or sanitary facilities to
the extent that the defects create a hazard to the health, safety, or welfare
of the occupants or of the public, may be declared unfit for human habitation
or unsafe to the public by the city.
   C.   Whenever any building has been declared unfit for human habitation or
unsafe to the public, the city may proceed to declare the building a hazardous
building or hazardous property and may seek to correct or remove the hazardous
condition as authorized by Minnesota law. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 592,
9-17-2024)
12-7A-4: FIREWOOD STORAGE:
   A.   The term “firewood” shall mean split wood or unsplit wood logs cut into
lengths not exceeding three feet (3') for the purpose of burning in a fireplace
or as a recreational fire on the property.
   B.   Firewood shall be kept or stored outdoors in accordance with the
following requirements:
      1.   Firewood shall be stored or kept in a neat and secure stack (maximum
of 2 cords, defined as 128 cubic feet per cord), which shall be no higher than
five feet (5').
      2.   Unless screened by a fence or wall, stacks shall be no closer than
five feet (5') to the property line.
      3.   The firewood stacks shall not be allowed to become infested with
rats, rodents, or vermin.
      4.   Fallen, uncut trees shall be removed or cut up into firewood as soon
as it is practicable, not to exceed ninety (90) days. The city council may
extend this period, upon written request by the property owner, for an
additional ninety (90) days. This requirement may be waived by the code
enforcement officer where it is determined that due to natural environmental
conditions, the trees do not present a hazard or nuisance. (Ord. 401, 7-19-
2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-5: OTHER OUTDOOR STORAGE:
   A.   Except provided for herein or as specifically allowed within the
specific zoning districts established by this title, all materials and
equipment shall be stored within a structure.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Clothesline poles and lines, play equipment, garden equipment, patio
furniture, and trampolines.
      2.   Not more than four (4) currently licensed and operable vehicles,
including trailers, may be parked or stored on property outside a structure on
single-family residential lots. All such parking and/or storage shall be
allowed as follows:
         a.   In the front yard, provided they are kept on an established
driveway, entirely on the vehicle owner’s property. Except as provided herein,
recreational vehicles may not be parked or stored on public property or street
right of way.
         b.   In the rear yard not closer than ten feet (10') from the rear lot
line, five feet (5') from the side lot lines, and not within drainage and
utility easements.
         c.   On a corner lot or through lot, not closer than twenty feet (20')
from the property line abutting the street side of the lot and not within
drainage and utility easements. Where such parking and/or storage is to be
located within side or rear yards of corner or through lots, such side or rear
yard shall be screened with landscaping and/or fencing from the public street.
         d.   All vehicles must be parked on concrete or bituminous pavement.
      3.   Construction and landscaping material, which shall be consumed or
used on the property within the next thirty (30) days and kept in a neat,
workmanlike fashion.
      4.   Off street parking of motor vehicles as specified in the respective
zoning districts.
      5.   Temporary storage pods used to temporarily store items during house
remodeling shall be kept on the driveway for a period not to exceed ninety (90)
days except by CUP application for major remodeling.
      6.   No pallets shall be stored on the property seven (7) days after they
are no longer used. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-6: ACCUMULATIONS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL:
   A.   Accumulations: Rubbish, garbage, or other hazardous and dangerous
materials shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate in stairways,
passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes or other means of egress.
   B.   Hazardous Material: Hazardous substances, refuse, pollutants and
contaminants, as those terms are defined by federal, state, and local laws,
shall not be accumulated or stored unless storage complies with the applicable
requirements of all laws, rules and ordinances pertaining to the activity,
including, but not limited to, the city’s building code and the city’s fire
prevention code. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-7: RUBBISH AND GARBAGE:
   A.   Accumulation Of Rubbish And Garbage: All exterior property, and the
interior of every structure, shall be free from any unreasonable accumulation
of rubbish and garbage causing a nuisance.
   B.   Disposal Of Rubbish: Every occupant of a structure shall reasonably
store and dispose of all rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner in
accordance with all laws.
      1.   Screening: Garbage and recycling containers shall be either: a)
stored inside a dwelling or other residential accessory structures not visible
from the public street or adjoining neighbors; or b) stored outside fully
screened by landscaping or fencing materials keeping the garbage and recycling
containers from being visible from the public street or adjoining neighbors.
   C.   Curbside Collection: Appliances, furniture and similar items shall not
be left outside for collection and disposal for more than seventy two (72)
hours. Appliances not awaiting collection and disposal shall not be placed
outside.
   D.   Garbage Cans: Garbage cans may be put out for collection the night
before and must be retrieved the next evening. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-8: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   General: Storm water runoff and drainage of roofs and other hard
surfaced areas, yards, courts, and other open areas on the property shall not
be allowed to occur in a manner that creates a public nuisance. (Ord. 401, 7-
19-2005; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-9: TEMPORARY GOAT GRAZING:
   A.   The temporary and periodic use of a limited number of goats for
invasive and noxious vegetation control on residential properties is permitted
subject to the review and approval of a Prescribed Goat Grazing Permit, as per
City Code Title
5-3-11 . (Ord. 566, 7-6-2021; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7A-10: ABATEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The city council shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter and may by resolution delegate to various officers or agencies
power to enforce particular provisions of this chapter, including the power to
inspect private property.
   B.   Notice To Abate: Whenever, in the judgment of city council or the
officer charged with enforcement of this chapter, it is determined that a
violation hereof is being maintained or exists within the city, such officer
shall notify in writing the person committing or maintaining such violation and
the owner of the property and require them to remedy such violation and to
remove such conditions or remedy such defects. Such written notice shall be
delivered to the person committing or maintaining violation and the owner of
the property or may be delivered by mail. If the property is not occupied and
the address of the owner is unknown, service on the owner may be accomplished
in the manner specified for service in rule 4 in the Minnesota rules of civil
procedure, except in the case of an emergency and then in such case, service
shall be accomplished after posting such notice for twenty four (24) hours.
Such notice shall require the owner or occupant of the property, or both, to
take corrective steps within a time as defined by the officer charged with
enforcement to remedy such violations, such steps and time to be designated in
the notice, but the maximum time to remedy a violation after service of such
notice shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days. In the case of severe
financial or physical hardship, the council may grant an extension to the time
limit. Said violation shall be corrected “immediately” in the case of imminent
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare. Service of notice may be
proven by filing an affidavit of service in the office of the city clerk
setting forth the manner and time thereof.
   C.   Report Of Failure To Abate: When notice so given is not complied with,
such noncompliance shall be reported forthwith to the city for such action as
may be necessary and deemed advisable to abate and enjoin further continuation
of such nuisance, including referring the matter to the city’s prosecuting
attorney to pursue a judicial remedy on behalf of the city. A violation of this
chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
   D.   Abatement By City: In the event the city chooses to abate said
violation, the city shall adopt a resolution setting forth the specific details
of the corrective matters to be taken. A copy of the resolution shall be sent
to the property owner by certified mail and if the violation is not abated
within ten (10) days of the mailing of said resolution, the city shall take all
actions necessary to abate said violation, keeping accurate records of the cost
of the same.
   E.   Costs To Owner: The finance director shall prepare a bill and mail it
to the owner of the property for the costs incurred by the city, including, but
not limited to, administrative costs, attorney fees and costs and the costs of
any outside contractor engaged by the city to correct such violation, and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable to the city (the
“bill”).
   F.   Costs A Special Tax: If the bill is not paid to the city within twenty
(20) days after the mailing of the bill, the city clerk shall extend the costs
of abating the violation as a special tax against the property upon which the
violation was located, and such special tax shall, at the time of certifying
taxes to the county auditor, be certified for collection as other special taxes
are certified and collected. The city council may specify an additional penalty
for such special tax collections. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 566, 7-6-
2021; Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
12-7B-1: Findings And Purpose Statement
12-7B-2: Building Structure Appearance And Safety Requirements
12-7B-3: Maintenance Requirements For Vacant Buildings
12-7B-4: Landscaping And Grounds Maintenance
12-7B-5: Signs And Lighting
12-7B-6: Rubbish, Garbage, And Trash
12-7B-7: Temporary Goat Grazing
12-7B-8: Abatement And Enforcement Procedures
12-7B-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE STATEMENT:
   A.   The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the city to
protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. To this
end, the city believes that by adoption of these commercial/industrial property
maintenance regulations, it will further the following objectives:
      1.   To preserve the value of commercial and industrial property within
the city;
      2.   To protect the character and stability of commercial and industrial
areas of the city;
      3.   To provide for minimum standards of maintenance for commercial/
industrial properties within the city and ensure compliance;
      4.   Provide a mechanism to place conditions upon those commercial/
industrial properties which do not comply with the standards of maintenance
established herein;
      5.   Assist in correction of dangerous or life threatening conditions
that may be identified within the city;
      6.   Provide a mechanism to mitigate potential public health issues
identified within the city. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-2: BUILDING AND STRUCTURE APPEARANCE AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Material Condition: Any building or structure, including
retaining walls, is a public nuisance if its exterior does not comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   All exterior property shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and
sanitary condition.
      2.   No part of any exterior building surface shall have significant
deterioration including, but not limited to, holes, breaks, gaps, or loose or
rotting materials. All exterior surfaces of the structure including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches and trim, shall be
maintained in a good and safe condition. Exterior wood surfaces on the
structures, other than decay resistant woods, stucco or other materials that do
not normally require protection from the elements shall be protected from the
elements and decay by staining, painting or other protective covering or
treatment or other appropriate method acceptable to the city. With regard to
broken windows, repair shall require replacement of all broken glass.
   B.   Premises Identification: All buildings shall have address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be arabic numerals. Numbers shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in height or larger as necessary to ensure visibility.
   C.   Architectural Elements: All architectural elements including, but not
limited to, cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features shall be maintained in good repair with proper
anchorage and in a safe condition. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-
2024)
12-7B-3: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VACANT BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maintenance:
      1.   Any vacant building or structure in the city that is found by an
authorized employee or agent of the city to be dangerous to public safety or
health by reason of the following is hereby declared to be a public nuisance
and a hazardous structure or condition:
         a.   Damaged by fire, storm or vandalism
         b.   Defective chimneys or stovepipes
         c.   Dilapidated condition or decay, or
         d.   Any other defect endangering the public safety or health.
      2.   Any vacant structure which is damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
unsanitary, unsafe, vermin or rodent infested, presents environmental health
risks or which lacks provisions for safe illumination, ventilation, or sanitary
facilities to the extent that the defects create a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public, may be declared unfit for human habitation or
unsafe to the public by the city.
      3.   Whenever any vacant building has been declared unfit for human
habitation or unsafe to the public, the city may proceed to declare the
building a hazardous building or hazardous property and may seek to correct or
remove the hazardous condition as authorized by Minnesota law.
   B.   Security Measures: Vacant buildings violating the terms of subsection A
of this section shall be secured in accordance with Minnesota state statutes
463.251 and applicable building code requirements.
      1.   Windows and doors shall be covered to prevent entry within a frame,
and with covering materials that are designed to complement or match those of
the existing building.
      2.   Any part of the building, such as walls or roof, which is damaged in
such a way as to allow possible entry, shall be repaired with materials that
match the materials used for that part elsewhere on the building, and in a
manner which masks the visible impression of vacancy. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012;
amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-4: LANDSCAPING AND GROUNDS MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Vegetation, Trimming And Replacement (Trees And Shrubs): The owner and
any respective agents responsible by contract or law for property maintenance
shall be jointly and severally responsible for the planting, trimming and
maintenance of all site trees and shrubs in a condition presenting a healthy,
neat and orderly appearance which is free from refuse and debris.
   B.   Fencing: Any fence is a public nuisance if it does not comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   The fence shall be firmly fastened and anchored in order that it is
not leaning or otherwise in any stage of collapse.
      2.   The fence shall be maintained in sound and good repair and free from
deterioration, loose or rotting pieces, or holes, breaks, or gaps not otherwise
intended in the original design of the fence. The fence shall be free from any
defects or condition which makes the fence hazardous.
      3.   All exterior wood surfaces of any fence, other than decay resistant
woods, shall be protected from the elements by paint or other protective
surface covering or treatment, which shall be maintained in good repair to
provide the intended protection from the elements.
      4.   No fence section shall have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish, including, but not limited to: paint or other
protective covering or treatment, on more than twenty percent (20%) of any one
linear ten foot (10') section of the fence. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-5: SIGNS AND LIGHTING:
   A.   Signage: All signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
structural condition at all times. Maintenance shall include painting,
repainting, cleaning, replacement or repair of defective parts, replacement of
missing letters and other necessary acts. Any sign which the city finds is in a
dangerous or defective condition shall be removed or repaired by the owner of
the sign or the owner of the premises on which the sign is located.
   B.   Exterior Lighting: All light fixtures shall be maintained in good
repair. Lights for illuminating parking areas, loading areas or yards for
safety and security purposes shall be maintained in such a manner that the
maximum illumination levels established within the city’s zoning regulations
are not exceeded. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-6: RUBBISH, GARBAGE, AND TRASH:
   A.   Accumulation And/Or Storage Of Rubbish And Garbage: All exterior
property areas shall be free from any unreasonable accumulation of rubbish and
garbage.
   B.   Disposal Of Rubbish: Every occupant of a structure shall reasonably
store and dispose of all rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner in
accordance with all laws, including, but not limited to, title 4, chapter 2 of
this code.
   C.   Screening: Garbage and recycling containers shall be either: 1) stored
inside a building such that they are not visible from adjacent public streets
or adjoining properties; or 2) stored outside but fully screened from view of
adjacent public streets or adjoining properties by landscaping or fencing
materials.
   D.   Collection: Discarded materials and equipment shall not be left outside
for collection and disposal for more than seventy-two (72) hours. Materials and
equipment not awaiting collection and disposal shall not be placed outside.
(Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-7: TEMPORARY GOAT GRAZING:
   A.   The temporary and periodic use of a limited number of goats for
invasive and noxious vegetation control on commercial or industrial properties
is permitted subject to the review and approval of a Prescribed Goat Grazing
Permit, as per City Code Title
5-3-11 . (Ord. 566, 7-6-2021; amd. Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
12-7B-8: ABATEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The city council shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter and may by resolution delegate to various officers or agencies
power to enforce particular provisions of this chapter, including the power to
inspect private property.
   B.   Notice To Abate: Whenever, in the judgment of city council or the
officer charged with enforcement of this chapter, it is determined that a
violation hereof is being caused or exists within the city, such officer shall
notify in writing the person committing or maintaining such violation and the
owner of the property and require them to remedy such violation and to remove
such conditions or remedy such defects. Such written notice shall be delivered
to the person committing or maintaining violation and the owner of the property
or may be delivered by mail. If the property is not occupied and the address of
the owner is unknown, service on the owner may be accomplished in the manner
specified for service in rule 4 in the Minnesota rules of civil procedure,
except in the case of an emergency and then in such case, service shall be
accomplished after posting such notice for twenty-four (24) hours. Such notice
shall require the owner or occupant of the property, or both, to take
corrective steps within a time as defined by the officer charged with
enforcement to remedy such violations, such steps and time to be designated in
the notice, but the maximum time to remedy a violation after service of such
notice shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days. In the case of severe
financial or physical hardship, the council may grant an extension to the time
limit. Said violation shall be corrected “immediately” in the case of imminent
danger to the public health, safety, or welfare. Service of notice may be
proven by filing an affidavit of service in the office of the city clerk
setting forth the manner and time thereof.
   C.   Report Of Failure To Abate: When notice so given is not complied with,
such noncompliance shall be reported forthwith to the city for such action as
may be necessary and deemed advisable to abate and enjoin further continuation
of such nuisance, including referring the matter to the city’s prosecuting
attorney to pursue a judicial remedy on behalf of the city. A violation of this
chapter shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code.
   D.   Abatement By City: In the event the city chooses to abate said
violation, the city shall adopt a resolution setting forth the specific details
of the corrective matters to be taken. A copy of the resolution shall be sent
to the property owner by certified mail and if the violation is not abated
within ten (10) days of the mailing of said resolution, the city shall take all
actions necessary to abate said violation, keeping accurate records of the cost
of the same.
   E.   Costs To Owner: The finance director shall prepare a bill and mail it
to the owner of the property for the costs incurred by the city, including, but
not limited to, administrative costs, attorney fees and costs and the costs of
any outside contractor engaged by the city to correct such violation, and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable to the city (the
“bill”).
   F.   Special Assessment: If the bill is not paid to the city within twenty
(20) days after the mailing of the bill, the city clerk shall extend the costs
of abating the violation as a special assessment against the property upon
which the violation was located, and such special assessment shall, at the time
of certifying taxes to the county auditor, be certified for collection as other
special taxes and assessments are certified and collected. The city council may
specify an additional penalty for such special assessment collections.
   G.   Alternative Means Of Enforcement: This section provides an alternative
means of enforcement of the terms of this chapter, and nothing in this section
shall be construed in such a way as to limit or restrict the city’s right to
pursue available remedies under other law, including civil or criminal
proceedings, as may be applicable. (Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; amd. Ord. 566, 7-6-
2021; Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 8
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE A. PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-8A-1: Rules Of Word Construction
12-8A-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this Zoning Ordinance shall be
interpreted in accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present.
   C.   The word “shall” and “must” are mandatory, and the word “may” is
permissive.
   D.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
Zoning Ordinance, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in such Chapter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term in this Zoning Ordinance is not expressly
defined in this Chapter, then the word shall be construed to have the common
definition as established by dictionary.
   F.   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS OF ZONING CHAPTERS
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 AND 7 OF THIS TITLE
SECTION:
12-8B-1: Definitions
12-8B-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY MOTOR FUEL STATIONS USES: Include one or more of the following:
   A.   Rental of camper trailers of less than fifteen feet (15') in length.
   B.   Rental of camper trucks and camper buses.
   C.   Rental of open, covered, and stake trailers.
   D.   Rental of trucks except tractor trailer units.
   E.   Motor fuel station convenience stores.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure subordinate to and serving the
principal use or structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
ACCESSORY BUILDING - PRIVATE GARAGE: An Accessory Building that is generally
used for storage of personal vehicles and other residential storage and is for
the purpose of serving a single-family attached or detached residential unit.
The Private Garage may be attached or detached to the Principal Building.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE - STORAGE BUILDING: An Accessory Building that is generally
used for the storage of personal items. Such structures may include a small
storage shed or chicken coop, etc.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE - NON-BUILDING STRUCTURES: An Accessory Structure that does
not meet the definition of a Building but is permanently affixed to the land
and may increase the impervious coverage of a property. Such structures may
include, but are not limited to, a children’s play structure, children’s
treehouse, above ground or inground pool, sport court, gazebo, patio, etc.
ADULT USES: See Article C of this Chapter.
AGRICULTURE- URBAN: An area less than five (5) contiguous acres which is used
for the purpose of growing produce including crops, fruits, trees, shrubs,
plants and flowers, vegetables, and the like, provided such produce is intended
solely for the use of residents on the property or sale away from the property.
It shall not include the raising of animals, roadside stands for sale of
products, processing or packaging operations, or similar uses.
AIRPORT OR HELIPORT: Any land or structure which is used or intended for use
for the landing and takeoff of aircraft and any appurtenant land or structure
used or intended for use for port buildings or other port structures or rights
of way.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM: A ground source heat pump, wind or solar energy
system.
ANIMALS, DOMESTIC: Dogs, cats, birds and other common domestic household pets
including female chickens (Gallus gallus domesticus) kept for purposes of
companionship or egg production for household use only.
ANIMALS, FOOD: Fish, fowl, cattle, swine, sheep and others typically raised for
purposes of food consumption, with the exception of bees where specifically
allowed by the zoning districts.
ANIMALS, FUR: Animals raised for pelts.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms with full housekeeping facilities which is
rented on a monthly basis.
ATTORNEY: The person licensed by the state to practice law who has been engaged
by the city council.
AUTOMOBILE REDUCTION YARD: A lot or yard where three (3) or more unlicensed
motor vehicles or the remains thereof are kept for the purpose of dismantling,
sale of parts, sale as scrap, storage or abandonment.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers, including bodywork, framework, and major
painting service.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: The replacement of any part or repair of any part
which does not require the removal of the engine head or pan, engine,
transmission or differential; incidental body and fender work, minor painting
and upholstering service when said service above stated is applied to passenger
automobiles and trucks not in excess of a three- fourths (3/4) ton rating.
BASEMENT: That portion of the building having more than one- half (1/2) of the
floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
BASEMENT, EXPOSED: A portion of a building located partly underground, but
having less than half its floor to ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by streets
or a combination of streets, exterior boundary lines of the subdivision and/or
bodies of water.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a motel or hotel where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings are provided for
three (3) or more persons, but not to exceed eight (8) persons.
BUILDABLE AREA: Buildable Area is the area on a lot excluding the required
front yard setback, all delineated wetlands,waterways or lakes as established
by OHWL, steep slopes in excess of 18%, Bluff setback or Bluff Impact Zone.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof and at least three (3) walls which may
provide shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels, and when said
structure is divided by party walls without openings, each portion of such
building so separated shall be deemed a separate building.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The outline of the total area covered by a building’s
perimeter at the ground level to the block/foundation.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average grade of the front
building line, as established in the approved grading plan for the lot, to the
top of the cornice of a flat roof, to a point of the roof directly above the
highest wall of a shed roof, to the uppermost point on a round or other arch
type roof, to the average distance of the highest gable on a pitched or hip
roof.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
CARPORT: An open sided, roofed automobile shelter usually formed by extension
of the roof from the side of a building.
CHICKEN COOP: Any structure used for the housing of chickens.
CHICKEN RUN: A fenced outdoor area for the keeping and exercising of chickens.
CHURCH: A building, together with its accessory building and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
CLUB OR LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, the use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests.
CLUSTER OR CLUSTERING (HOUSING): The placement of two (2) or more housing
units, whether single-family, or multi-family, or mixed, in closer proximity
than is permitted under the regulations applicable to the Zoning District or
districts in which the project area is proposed to be located.
COLLEGE (OR UNIVERSITY): An educational institution, either private or public,
which offers classes and training to full and/or part time students in academic
fields, and which offers associate, baccalaureate, and/or graduate degrees or
diplomas. A college or university may include accessory facilities including
housing, recreation facilities, and other facilities for the convenience of the
student population.
COMMERCIAL OFFICES: A commercial use involving predominantly administrative,
clerical, or professional operations. Commercial offices may include
professional and administrative training, but shall not include direct retail
commercial transaction activities. Professional training may include classes
and training offered by professional or administrative entities to consumers of
professional services.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: That portion of the total property of a planned unit
development to be used by its residents for both passive and active recreation
and owned and maintained by an agency other than the Governing Body.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Unless otherwise stated, it is the general plan for land
use, transportation and community facilities prepared and maintained by the
Planning Commission and approved by the City Council.
CONDITIONAL USE: Either a public or private use which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit specially and individually granted for a
conditional use in any district.
COUNCIL: Within this Chapter, shall refer to the City Council of Mendota
Heights.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building measured
at the center of such front. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean elevation of the finished lot grade immediately adjacent to a building
shall be considered the “curb level”.
CUSTODIAL CARE CENTER: A facility used to provide care for aged or infirm
persons who require only personal services as board, room, laundry, and other
personal services, where nursing services are not provided.
DAYCARE CENTER: A facility which for gain or otherwise regularly provides one
or more persons with care, training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation,
or developmental guidance on a regular basis for periods of less than 24 hours
per day, in a place other than the person’s own home.
DOG TRAINING FACILITY: An indoor or outdoor facility utilized for the organized
training and care of dogs.
DWELLING: A building or one or more portions thereof occupied or intended to be
occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including motels, hotels,
nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins or trailer coaches.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building having two (2) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling unit having one or more walls in common with
another, oriented so as to have direct access outside.
EARTH SHELTERED STRUCTURE: A building designed by a registered architect and/or
engineer and constructed so that the surface area of the building, excluding
the garage or accessory buildings, is partially sheltered with earth.
EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, of any designated part of his property.
ENGINEER, CITY: The professional engineer engaged by the city council.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems including poles, wire, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants or other
similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith; but not including
buildings.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons each related by blood,
marriage or adoption or other parent/child relationship, living together as a
single housekeeping unit, or a group of not more than four (4) persons not so
related, maintaining a common household.
FENCE: Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier, or enclosure.
FLOOD: A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in water
overtopping its banks and inundating areas adjacent to the channel.
FLOOD, DESIGN: The design flood which has been calculated for a given watershed
or area from record and study. In the absence of any special engineering
studies, the 100-year event shall be used as a standard in this Chapter in
determining areas subject to flooding.
FLOODPLAIN: The land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by floodwater.
FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT: The area adjoining a river, stream, drainage channel,
lake, pond or any low area which is subject to flooding.
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the reduction
or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area.
FLOODWATER: The water of any river, stream, drainage channel, low area, lake,
or pond which is above and/or outside the channel or banks of said river,
stream, drainage channel, lake or pond.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and those portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel that are required to carry and discharge the floodwater
or flood flows of any river or stream.
FLOODWAY DISTRICT: The channel or bed of a river, stream, drainage channel,
lake, or pond and those portions of the floodplains adjoining which are
required to efficiently carry and discharge the flow of the river or stream and
for the purpose of this Chapter.
FLOOR AREA: The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building or portion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The “floor
area” of a building or portion thereof not provided with surrounding exterior
walls shall be the usable area under the horizontal projection of the roof or
floor above.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor area
of a building or buildings by the lot area on which such building or buildings
are located.
FLOOR PLAN, GENERAL: A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization of
the floor area within a building structure.
GARAGE, ATTACHED: A private garage that is accessory and attached to the
principal structure, that is primarily used for personal vehicles and storage.
GARAGE, DETACHED: A private garage that is accessory and detached to the
principal structure, that is primarily used for personal vehicles and storage.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion of a building used for the storage of
vehicles for remuneration or gratis that is accessible to the general public.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building or space for the maintenance of vehicles but not
including auto wrecking or junk yards.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of Mendota Heights.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any gainful occupation of a person residing in their dwelling
that is clearly accessory to the principal use as a residential unit.
HOTEL: A building containing eight (8) or more guestrooms in which lodging is
provided for compensation, with or without meals, and in which ingress and
egress to and from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or inside office
supervised by a person in charge.
INSTITUTIONAL USE: Uses operated as schools, places of worship, cemeteries, or
government facilities.
INTERIM USE: A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permit
the use.
INTERIM USE PERMIT: A permit specially and individually granted for an interim
use in any district.
JUNKYARD: An area where used, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, disassembled, or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron, and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber products, bottles and lumber. Storage of such material in
conjunction with a permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area
or building shall not be included.
KENNEL, ANIMAL: A place where three (3) or more of any single type of domestic
animal, over four (4) months of age, are owned, boarded, bred or offered for
sale.
LAND RECLAMATION: Restoration of land to usable form by depositing of clean
fill materials so as to elevate the grade.
LANDSCAPING: Plantings such as trees, grass and shrubs.
LICENSED ENGINEER: A person licensed as a professional engineer by the state of
Minnesota.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or used or intended for occupancy or use by a
use permitted in this Chapter, abutting on a public street, and of sufficient
size to provide the yards required by this Chapter.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
LOT AREA, PER DWELLING UNIT: The number of square feet of lot area required per
dwelling unit.
LOT, BUTT: A lot located on the end of a block, excluding corner lots.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street and the interior angle of which does not exceed 135°.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot; except, that where any portion of a
lot extends into a public right of way or a proposed public right of way, the
line of such public right of way shall be the “lot line” for applying this
Chapter.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street and, in the case of a corner lot, the front lot line shall be
designated by the owner, subject to the approval by the code enforcement
officer. Appeals to the determination of the code enforcement officer may be
filed with the zoning board of appeals in accordance with section [12-1L-3] of
this Chapter.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be the line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: Part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in
the office of the register of deeds, or a parcel of land, the deed to which was
recorded in the office of said register of deeds prior to the adoption of this
Chapter.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two (2)
substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a through
lot, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying this [Chapter 1].
LOT WIDTH: The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured within the first 30' of the lot depth.
MANUFACTURING: All uses which include the compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided such use will not
generate objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use
is located.
MASSAGE THERAPY (THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE) BUSINESS: Any establishment or place
providing to the public at large therapeutic massage services, other than a
hospital, sanatorium, rest home, nursing home, boarding home, or other
institution for the hospitalization or care of human beings, duly licensed
under the provisions of Minnesota statutes sections 144.50 through 144.69.
MEAN FLOW LEVEL: The average flow elevation of a stream or river computed as
the midpoint between extreme low and extreme high water.
MINING: The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other material from the
land in the amount of four hundred (400) cubic yards or more and the removal
from the site, except grading and/or excavation in connection with an approved
development or building plan for which permits have been issued by the city
council.
MOBILE HOME: Any type of structure or vehicle which is mounted on wheels or has
provisions for wheels and which is designed to provide permanent residence.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two (2) or
more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
MOTOR COURT, MOTOR HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building or group of buildings other than
a hotel used primarily as a temporary residence.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR FUEL CONVENIENCE STORE: A store operated in conjunction with a motor fuel
station or truck stop for the purpose of offering for sale goods not essential
for the operation of motor vehicles.
MOTOR FUEL STATION: A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale of
motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services generally
required in the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles. These may include
the sale of petroleum products and the sale and servicing of tires, batteries,
automotive accessories, replacement items, lubrication services, and the
performance of minor automotive maintenance and repair.
MOTOR HOME: All motor vehicles designed, constructed, or used to provide
movable living quarters for recreational use.
NATURAL AREA: Any property managed for the development of indigenous prairie
and/or forest plants, intended to exist in a wild or natural condition,
according to a written plan.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure which is legally existing upon the
effective date of this Chapter, which would not conform to the applicable
regulations if the structure were to be erected under the provisions of this
Chapter.
NONCONFORMING USE: Use of land, buildings or structures lawfully existing at
the time of adoption of this Chapter which does not comply with all the
regulations of this Chapter or any amendments hereto governing the zoning
district in which such use is located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, DAY OR NURSERY SCHOOL: A business or home where care is provided for
pay for three (3) or more children for periods of four (4) hours or more per
day.
NURSERY, LANDSCAPE: A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs.
NURSING HOME: Any institution or facility required to be licensed as such under
Minnesota statutes sections 144.50 to 144.56 by the state board of health.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease, or
trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
OPEN STORAGE: Storage of material outside of a building.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
PARKING SPACE: A surfaced and maintained area (9 by 20 feet) for the storage of
one standard automobile.
PARKING SPACE, HANDICAPPED: A surfaced and maintained area (12 by 20 feet) for
the parking of one standard automobile and identified for use by handicapped
individuals.
PARTY WALL: A common wall which divides two (2) independent structures.
PEDESTRIANWAY: The right of way across or within a block for use by pedestrian
traffic.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: Criterion established to control noise, odor, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PERSON: A natural person of either gender, a partnership, corporation,
political body, any other entity and any other association of persons.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development which consists of two (2) or more
principal structures or uses on a single parcel of land.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city of Mendota Heights.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A clear zone extending a distance of five hundred feet (500')
centered on the centerline of a runway and extending to a distance of two
hundred feet (200') beyond the end of a runway.
PROPERTY: Developed or undeveloped land, parcel or platted lot, including any
buildings, structures, and accessory structures thereon.
PROPERTY LINE: The legal boundaries of a parcel of land.
PROTECTIVE COVENANT: A contract between parties which constitutes a restriction
on the use of property for the benefit of the owners.
PUBLIC LAND: Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit.
PUBLICATION: An official notice as prescribed by state statutes.
PUMP SETBACK: The distance from the street right of way line to the centerline
of the motor fuel station pump island measured as a perpendicular distance from
the right of way.
RECREATION, COMMERCIAL: Recreational instruction and participative athletic
uses, including jump/trampoline center, golf range/simulator, fitness center,
sports training facility, martial arts school, dance school, and similar uses.
RECREATION EQUIPMENT: Play apparatus such as swing sets and slides, sandboxes,
poles for nets, picnic tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands, and similar
apparatus but not including tree houses, swimming pools, playhouses exceeding
twenty-five (25) square feet of floor area, or sheds utilized for storage of
equipment.
RESTAURANT, CAFETERIA: Food is selected by a customer while going through a
serving line and taken to a table for consumption.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: Most customers purchase and consume their food while in
an automobile.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: A majority of customers order and are served their food
at a counter, and then the food is taken to a table or counter where it is
consumed, however, a significant number of people may take the food outside to
eat in an automobile or off the premises.
RESTAURANT, TRADITIONAL: Food is served to a customer and consumed while seated
at a counter or table.
RETAIL SALES: Stores and shops selling personal services or goods.
RIGHT OF WAY: The legal right, established by usage or grant, to pass along a
specific route through grounds or property belonging to another.
ROOSTER: A male chicken.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the line of a structure and
the nearest specified property line.
SHELTER, FALLOUT OR BLAST: A structure or portion of a structure intended to
provide protection to human life during periods of danger from nuclear fallout,
blasts, air raids, storms, or other emergencies.
SIGN: Any written announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration, insignia or illumination used to advertise or promote the
interest of any person when the same is placed out of doors or displayed in
view of the general public and shall include every detached sign or billboard
and every sign attached to or forming a component part of a building, marquee,
canopy, awning, street clock, pole, parked vehicle or other object, whether
stationary or movable. However, a “sign” shall not include any display of
traffic directional signs, street name signs or other signs which have been
authorized and erected by a government body.
SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD): A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises
where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered on the
premises on which such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC DISPLAY: A sign or portion thereof that displays electronic,
nonpictorial, text information in which each alphanumeric character is defined
by a small number of matrix elements using different combinations of light
emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs, or other illumination
devices within the display area. Electronic display signs include computer
programmable, microprocessor controlled electronic displays. A scoreboard being
used during an organized sporting event shall not be considered a sign.
SIGN, FLASHING: An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times in which
such sign is in use.
SIGN, GROSS AREA OF: The area within the frame shall be used to calculate the
square feet; except, that the width of the frame exceeding twelve inches (12")
shall constitute advertising space, or should such letters or graphics be
mounted directly on a wall or fascia or in any such way as to be without a
frame, the dimensions for calculating the square footage shall be the area
extended six inches (6") beyond the periphery formed around such letters or
graphics bounded by straight lines connecting the outermost points thereof, and
each surface utilized to display a message or to attract attention shall be
measured as a separate sign.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or
outlines illuminated by electric lights including, but not limited to, LEDs and
luminous tubes as a part of the sign proper.
SIGN, MARQUEE OR CANOPY: Any message or identification which is affixed to a
projection or extension of a building or structure, erected in such a manner as
to provide a shelter or cover over the approach to any entrance to a store,
building or place of assembly.
SIGN, MONUMENT: Any freestanding sign independent from any building or other
structure that is mounted on the ground or mounted on a foundation base
structure at least as wide as the sign. A monument sign is typically solid from
grade to the top of the structure.
SIGN, NAMEPLATE: Any sign which states the name or address, or both, of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed or may be a directory
listing the names, addresses, and business of occupants.
SIGN, PYLON: Any freestanding sign independent from any building or other
structure that has its supportive structure(s) anchored in the ground and a
sign face elevated above ground by a pole(s), post(s) or beam(s) with an open
area below the face of the sign.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: A sign allowed for a period of ninety (90) days or less.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A device, set of devices, or structural design feature,
whose primary purpose is to transform solar energy into another form of energy
or transferring heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical,
electrical, or chemical means.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING INTEGRATED: An active system that is an integral
part of a principal or accessory structure, rather than a separate mechanical
device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural component
of the building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar
energy systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and
awnings.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, PASSIVE: A system that captures solar light or heat
without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the energy
via a heat exchanger.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. An exposed basement shall be
counted as a full story, and a cellar basement shall not be counted as a story.
STREET: A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which serves or is designed to serve as a
trafficway for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major street.
STREET, DEAD END OR CUL-DE-SAC: A street with only one (1) vehicular traffic
outlet.
STREET, HALF: A street designed to provide access only to one (1) side of the
right-of-way.
STREET, MAJOR OR THOROUGHFARE: A street which serves or is designed to serve
heavy flows of traffic and which is used primarily as a route for traffic
between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
STREET, MINOR: A street intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
STREET, PRIVATE: A street which is not dedicated to the community for public
use.
STREET, PUBLIC: A public right of way developed to afford primary access by
pedestrians and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a
street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, or boulevard, in
accordance with the metropolitan council functional classification of
transportation facilities.
STREET, SERVICE: A marginal access street which is generally parallel and
adjacent to a major street.
STREET WIDTH: The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: A change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground. This
shall include signs and fences.
TEMPORARY GARDEN CENTER: Temporary greenhouse and display areas for plant
materials allowed for a limited time period in a specified location.
THEATER: A structure within which motion pictures or dramatic performances are
offered as entertainment for the general public. For the purpose of applying
parking and signage standards, a structure containing multiple motion picture
screens shall be considered a single theater.
TRAVEL TRAILER: Any trailer which is not used as a residence but is used for
temporary living quarters for recreational activities and is towed on public
roads in connection with such use.
TRUCK STOP: A motor fuel station devoted primarily to the needs of over the
road tractor trailer units and trucks, and which shall include eating or
sleeping facilities, and located abutting the right-of-way of a controlled or
limited access divided highway, expressway, freeway, or interstate highway of
four (4) or more lanes, and on a major city thoroughfare.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained
and shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to
the performance standards of this Chapter.
VEHICLES: Shall include trailers, boats, watercraft, “ski-doos”, snowmobiles,
four (4) wheelers, and ATVs.
VETERINARY: Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, medical care of
animals, as well as storage and disposal of dead animals, including animal or
pet hospitals.
VIDEO/ELECTRONIC DISPLAY SCOREBOARD: A display board equipped with video or
electronic components encompassing a majority of the surface erected at an
athletic field, or similar outdoor facility, which shows the score of a contest
and other relevant information to spectators at an event.
WAREHOUSING: The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed building.
WEEDS: All grasses, annual or perennial plants and vegetation, other than trees
or shrubs. This term shall not include cultivated lawns, flowers and gardens.
WHOLESALING: The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to another
business that in turn sells to the final customer.
YARD: A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by a
structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly permitted
in this Chapter. A “yard” shall extend along a lot line and at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting front street right-of-
way line to a depth required in the yard regulations for the district in which
such lot is located.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full width of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines and extending toward the front lot line for a depth as
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along the side lot line between the front and rear
yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the district in
which such lot is located.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: That person designated by the City Administrator and
approved by City Council as being responsible for the administration of this
Chapter.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the limits of the City for which the
regulations and requirements governing use, lot and size of buildings and
premises are uniform. (Ord. 401, 7-19-2005; amd. Ord. 444, 11-20-2012; Ord.
592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE C. DEFINITIONS OF ADULT USES OF THIS TITLE
SECTION:
12-8C-1: Definitions
12-8C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms and definitions listed
below shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. The standards applicable to Adult Uses are established within [Chapter
3].
ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS: A business that: (a) has any sexually-oriented
materials in its inventory, stock in trade or publicly traded merchandise; (b)
devotes any of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas,
bathrooms, basements or any portion of the business not open to the public) to
sexually-oriented materials; (c) derives any revenue from sexually-oriented
materials; or a business that engages for any length of time in a sexually-
oriented use as defined herein or any other use that has an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT: Any sexually-oriented business or sexually-
oriented use.
ADULT-ORIENTED MATERIALS: Visual, printed or aural materials, and other objects
or devices, which: (1) Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; (2) Are marketed for use in
conjunction with, or are primarily used only with or during, specified sexual
activities; or (3) Are designed for sexual stimulation.
ADULT-ORIENTED USES:
Any of the following activities, even if the activity exists for only a short
time.
   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO: An establishment or business which excludes
minors by reason of age, and which provides the service of applying paints or
other substances, whether transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a
patron when the body is wholly or partially nude in terms of specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE: A building or part of a building used for the barter,
rental or sale of items consisting of: instruments, devices or paraphernalia
which are designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities; or
printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, motion
picture film, CD ROMs, DVDs or other forms of recording if such items are
distinguished or characterized by the emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. No obscene work
shall be allowed.
   ADULT CABARET: A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
entertainment is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CAR WASH: A wash facility for any type of motor vehicle that allows
employees, agents, independent contractors or persons to engage in specified
sexual activities or to display specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT COMPANION ESTABLISHMENT: A companion establishment and which provides
the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion
between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is
distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CONVERSATION/ RAP PARLOR: A conversation/rap parlor which excludes
minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of engaging in or
listening to conversation, talk or discussion if the service is distinguished
and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT HEALTH/ SPORT CLUB: A health/sport club if the club which excludes
minors by reason of age, and is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, and which: (a) offers accommodations to
the public, for any form of consideration, provides patrons with closed-circuit
television transmissions, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or
other photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
has a sign visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the
availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions; (b) Offers a
sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than ten hours; (c)
Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for a
period of time that is less than ten hours; or (d) allows for temporary
patronage and where material is presented which is distinguished and
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB: A massage parlor or health club which
excludes minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage,
if the service is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or portion of a building which
a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
material is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO: An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited, except for minors by reason of age, and wherein coin or slug operated
or electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or
motion picture machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished and characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE STUDIO: A building or portion of a building used for
the production, recording, filming or taping of videos or films distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons, except for minors by reason of age, and used
for presenting material if the building or portion of a building as a
prevailing practice of age or if the material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS: A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed
for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT SAUNA: A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used
for the purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion
of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by
the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished and characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT STEAM ROOM/ BATHHOUSE FACILITY: A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning; relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse is distinguished and characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its principal business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other considerations.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: (a) Less than completely or opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and (b) human male genitals in a
discernable turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerastia;
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or
masturbation;
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast(s);
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, bettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation in
the context of a sexual relationship. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE D: DEFINITION OF CRITICAL AREA OVERLAY DISTRICT OF THIS TITLE
SECTION:
12-8C-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the same meaning they have in common usage and to
give this Chapter its most reasonable application. For the purpose of this
Chapter, the words “must” and “shall” are mandatory and not permissive. All
distances, unless otherwise specified, are measured horizontally.
ACCESS PATH: An area designated to provide ingress and egress to public waters.
ADJACENT: Having a boundary that physically touches or adjoins.
AGRICULTURAL USE: A use having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes,
section 40A.02.
ALTERNATIVE DESIGN: Subdivision design methods such as conservation design,
transfer of development density, or similar zoning and site design techniques
that protect open space and natural areas.
BIOLOGICAL AND ECOLOGICAL FUNCTIONS: The functions of vegetation in stabilizing
soils and slopes, retaining and filtering runoff, providing habitat, and
recharging groundwater.
BLUFF: A natural topographic feature having:
   A.   A slope that rises at least 25' where the grade of the slope averages
18% or greater, measured over any horizontal distance of 25', from the toe of
the slope to the top of the slope. Where the slope begins below the ordinary
high water level, the ordinary high water level is the toe of the slope [See
Figure 12-8D-1.1 - below]; or
   [Figure 12-8D-1.1 Bluff Diagram]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2683.png]
 
   B.   A natural escarpment or cliff with a slope that rises at least ten feet
(10') above the ordinary high water level or toe of the slope, whichever is
applicable, to the top of the slope, with a slope of 75o or greater [See Figure
12-8D-1.2 - below].
[Figure 12-8D-1.2 Natural Escarpment Bluff and Bluff Impact Zone Diagram]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2685.png]
 
BLUFF IMPACT ZONE: A bluff and land located within twenty-feet (20') of the
bluff. See Figure [12-8D-1.2] for natural escarpment or cliff example and
Figure [12-8D-1.3] for more common bluff example.
[Figure 12-8D-1.3 Toe, Top and Bluff Impact Zone Diagram]ÿ
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2687.png]
 
BLUFFLINE: A line delineating the top of the bluff. More than one bluffline may
be encountered proceeding landward from the river. See Figure 2 for natural
escarpment or cliff example and Figure 3 for more common bluff example.
BLUFF, TOE OF: A line along the bottom of a bluff, requiring field
verification, such that the slope above the line exceeds 18% and the slope
below the line is eighteen percent (18%) or less, measured over a horizontal
distance of 25'. See [
Figure 12-8D-1.2 ] for natural escarpment of cliff example and [
Figure 12-8D-1.3 ] for more common bluff example.
BLUFF, TOP OF: A line along the top of a bluff, requiring field verification,
such that the slope below the line exceeds 18% and the slope above the line is
18% or less, measured over a horizontal distance of 25'. See [Figures
Figure 12-8D-1.1  and
Figure 12-8D-1.2 .]
BUILDABLE AREA: The area upon which structures may be placed on a lot or parcel
of land and excludes areas needed to meet requirements for setback, rights-of-
way, bluff impact zones, historic properties, wetlands, designated floodways,
land below the ordinary high water level of public waters, and other
unbuildable areas.
BUILDING: A structure with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured
roof and affixed to a permanent site.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A document written after a compliance inspection,
certifying that the development complies with applicable requirements at the
time of the inspection.
CITY: The City of Mendota Heights, Minnesota.
COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use having the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes,
Chapters 462.
CONSERVATION DESIGN: A pattern of subdivision that is characterized by grouping
lots within a portion of a parcel, where the remaining portion of the parcel is
permanently protected as open space.
CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION: A pattern of subdivision that is characterized by
lots that are spread regularly throughout a parcel in a lot and block design.
DECK: A horizontal, unenclosed, aboveground level structure open to the sky,
with or without attached railings, seats, trellises, or other features,
attached or functionally related to a principal use or site.
DEVELOPER: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 116G.03.
DEVELOPMENT: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 116G.03.
DISCRETIONARY ACTION: An action under this Chapter related to land use that
requires a public hearing by local ordinance or statute, such as preliminary
plats, final subdivision plats, planned unit developments, conditional use
permits, interim use permits, variances, appeals, and rezoning.
DOCK: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6115.
ELECTRIC POWER FACILITIES: Equipment and associated facilities for generating
electric power or devices for converting wind energy to electrical energy as
identified and defined under Minnesota Statutes, section 216E.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, communications,
steam, or water distribution, collection, supply, or disposal systems,
including storm water. Essential services include poles, wires, mains, drains,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
navigational structures, aviation safety facilities or other similar equipment
and accessories in conjunction with the systems. Essential services does not
include buildings, treatment works as defined in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter
115.01, electric power facilities or transmission services.
FEEDLOT: Has the meaning given for animal feedlots under Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 7020.
FLOODPLAIN: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6120.
FULLY RECONSTRUCTS: The reconstruction of an existing impervious surface that
involves site grading and subsurface excavation so that soil is exposed. Mill
and overlay and other resurfacing activities are not considered fully
reconstructed.
HARD-SURFACE TRAIL: A trail surfaced in asphalt, crushed aggregate, or other
hard surface, for multi-purpose use, as determined by local, regional, or state
agency plans.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: An archaeological site, standing structure, site, district,
or other property that is:
   A.   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Register of Historic Places or locally designated as a historic site under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 471;
   B.   Determined to meet the criteria for eligibility to the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places as
determined by the director of the Minnesota Historical Society; or
   C.   An unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 307, in consultation with the Office of the State
Archaeologist.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to development.
Examples include rooftops, decks, sidewalks, patios, parking lots, storage
areas, and driveways, including those with concrete, asphalt, or gravel
surfaces.
INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING: The removal of all or a majority of the trees or
shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
INTERIM USE: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 462.
KEYSTONE SPECIES: A species on which other species in an ecosystem largely
depend, such that if it were removed the ecosystem would change drastically.
LAND ALTERATION: An activity that exposes the soil or changes the topography,
drainage, or cross section of the land, excluding gardening or similar minor
soil disturbances.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: Counties, cities, and townships.
LOT: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6120.
LOT WIDTH: The shortest distance between lot lines measured at both the
ordinary high-water level and at the required structure setback from the
ordinary high-water level. [See Figure 12-8D-1.4 below]
[Figure 12-8D-1.4 Lot Width Diagram]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2689.png]
 
MARINA: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6115.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA (MRCCA): The area within the River
Corridor Boundary (refer to separate definition noted herein).
MISSISSIPPI RIVER CORRIDOR CRITICAL AREA PLAN: A Chapter in the City of Mendota
Heights Comprehensive Plan.
MOORING FACILITY: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, Chapter
6115.0170.
NATIVE PLANT COMMUNITY: A plant community that has been identified as part of
the Minnesota Biological Survey or biological survey issued or adopted by a
local, state, or federal agency.
NATIVE VEGETATION: Vegetation comprised of plant species, other than noxious
weeds or invasive vegetation, that are indigenous to a region, and which
reasonably could occur or flourish naturally on a site.
NATURAL-SURFACE TRAIL: A trail composed of native soil and rock or compacted
granular stone, primarily intended for hiking, equestrian, or mountain bike
use, as determined by local, regional, or state agency plans.
NATURAL VEGETATION: Any combination of ground cover (excluding any vegetation
considered invasive), understory, and tree canopy that, while it may have been
altered by human activity, continues to stabilize soils, retain and filter
runoff, provide habitat, and recharge groundwater.
NONCONFORMITY: The meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 394.22.
NONMETALLIC MINING: The construction, reconstruction, repair, relocation,
expansion, or removal of any facility for the extraction, stockpiling, storage,
disposal, or reclamation of nonmetallic minerals such a stone, sand, and
gravel. Nonmetallic mining does not include ancillary facilities such as access
roads, bridges, culverts, and water level control structures. For purposes of
this subpart, “facility” includes all mine pits, quarries, stockpiles, basins,
processing structures and equipment, and any structures that drain or divert
public waters to allow mining.
OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGNS: Signs that direct attention to a product,
service, business, or entertainment venue that is not exclusively related to
the premises where the sign is located.
ORDINARY HIGH-WATER LEVEL (OHWL): Has the meaning given under Minnesota
Statutes, section 103G.005.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A zoning district that is applied over one or more previously
established zoning districts, establishing additional or stricter standards and
criteria for covered properties in addition to those of the underlying zoning
district. Overlay districts are often used to protect historic features and
natural resources such as shoreland or floodplain.
PARCEL: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 116G.03.
PATIO: A constructed hard surface located at ground level with no railings and
open to the sky.
PICNIC SHELTER: A roofed structure open on all sides, accessory to a
recreational use.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A method of land development that merges zoning
and subdivision controls, allowing developers to plan and develop a large area
as a single entity, characterized by a unified site design, a mix of structure
types and land uses, and/or phasing of development over a number of years.
Planned unit development includes any conversion of existing structures and
land uses that utilize this method of development.
PLAT: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, sections 505 and 515B.
PORT: A water transportation complex established and operated under the
jurisdiction of a port authority according to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 458.
PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS (PCA): Resources and features, including shore
impact zones, bluff impact zones, floodplains, wetlands, gorges, areas of
confluence with tributaries, natural drainage routes, underground springs,
unstable soils and bedrock, native plant communities, cultural and historic
properties, and significant existing vegetative stands, tree canopies, and
other resources identified in local government plans.
PRIVATE FACILITIES: Private roads, driveways, and parking areas, private water
access and viewing facilities, decks and patios in setback areas, and private
signs.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer licensed to practice in Minnesota.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Public utilities, public transportation facilities, and
public recreational facilities.
PUBLIC RECREATION FACILITIES: Recreational facilities provided by the state or
a local government and dedicated to public use, including parks, scenic
overlooks, observation platforms, trails, docks, fishing piers, picnic
shelters, water access ramps, and other similar water-oriented public
facilities used for recreation.
PUBLIC RIVER CORRIDOR VIEWS (PRCVs): Views toward the river from public
parkland, historic properties, and public overlooks, as well as views toward
bluffs from the ordinary high water level of the opposite shore, as seen during
the summer months and documented in the MRCCA Chapter of the Comprehensive
Plan.
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES: All transportation facilities provided by
federal, state, or local government and dedicated to public use, such as
roadways, transit facilities, railroads, and bikeways.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Electric power facilities, essential services, and
transmission services.
PUBLIC WATERS: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section
103G.005.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: A person designated by the City Administrator and
approved by the City Council as being jointly responsible for the
administration of this Chapter.
READILY VISIBLE: Land and development that are easily seen from the ordinary
high-water level of the opposite shore during summer months.
RESOURCE AGENCY: A Federal, state, regional, or local agency that engages in
environmental, natural, or cultural resource protection or restoration
activities, including planning, implementation, and monitoring.
RETAINING WALL: A vertical or nearly vertical structure constructed of mortar
and rubble masonry, rock, or stone regardless of size, vertical timber pilings,
horizontal timber planks with piling supports, sheet pilings, poured concrete,
concrete blocks, or other durable materials.
ROCK RIPRAP: Natural coarse rock placed or constructed to armor shorelines,
streambeds, bridge abutments, pilings and other shoreline structures against
scour or water or ice erosion.
RIVER CORRIDOR BOUNDARY: The boundary approved and adopted by the Metropolitan
Council under Minnesota Statutes, section 116G.06, as approved and adopted by
the legislature in Minnesota Statutes, section 116G.15, and as legally
described in the Sate Register, volume 43, pages 508 to 518.
RIVER-DEPENDENT USE: The use of land for commercial, industrial, or utility
purposes, where access to and use of a public water feature is an integral part
of the normal conduct of business and where the use is dependent on shoreline
facilities.
SCOUR: The localized removal of material from the streambed by flowing water,
and is the opposite of fill.
SELECTIVE VEGETATION REMOVAL: The removal of isolated individual trees or
shrubs that are not in a contiguous patch, strip, row, or block and that does
not substantially reduce the tree canopy or understory cover.
SETBACK: A separation distance measured horizontally.
SHORE IMPACT ZONE (SIZ): Land located between the ordinary high-water level of
public waters and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty percent (50%) of
the required structure setback or, for agricultural use fifty feet (50')
landward of the ordinary high water level. [See Figure 12-8D-1.5 - below].
[ Figure 12-8D-1.5 Shore Impact Zone Diagram ]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2691.png]
 
SHORELINE FACILITIES: Facilities that require a location adjoining public
waters for ingress and egress, loading and unloading, and public water intake
and outflow, such as barge facilities, port facilities, commodity loading and
unloading equipment, watercraft lifts, marinas, short-term watercraft mooring
facilities for patrons, and water access ramps. Structures that would be
enhanced by a shoreline location, but do not require a location adjoining
public waters as part of their function, are not shoreline facilities, such as
restaurants, bait shops, and boat dealerships.
STEEP SLOPE: A natural topographic feature with an average slope of 12% to 18%,
measured over a horizontal distance equal to or greater than 50', and any
slopes greater than 18% that are not bluffs.
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES: Facilities for the collection, conveyance,
treatment, or disposal of storm water.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or installed or portable, except for aerial or
underground utility lines such as sewer, electric, telephone, or gas lines, and
utility line towers, poles, and other supporting appurtenances, the use of
which requires a location on a parcel of land. It includes a movable structure
while it is located on land which can be used for housing, business,
commercial, agricultural, or office  purposes either temporarily or
permanently. Structure also includes fences, decks, billboards, swimming pools,
and advertising signs.
SUBDIVISION: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 462.352.
SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS): Has the meaning given under
Minnesota Rules, part 7080.1100.
TRANSMISSION SERVICES:
   A.   Electric power lines, cables, pipelines, or conduits that are:
      1.   Used to transport power between two points, as identified and
defined under Minnesota Statutes, section 216E.01, subdivision 4; or
      2.   For mains or pipelines for gas, liquids, or solids in suspension,
used to transport gas, liquids, or solids in suspension between two points; and
   B.   Telecommunication lines, cables, pipelines, or conduits.
TREELINE: The more or less continuous line formed by the tops of trees in a
wooded area when viewed from a particular point. The treeline is determined
during all seasons as if under full foliage.
UNDERGROUND SPRING: A place where water moving underground finds an opening to
the land surface and emerges, sometimes as just a trickle, and in some cases
only after a storm event, and in some cases seen as a continuous flow of water.
VARIANCE: Any modification or variation of official controls that a
municipality has approved in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, section
462.357, subd. 6(2).
WATER ACCESS RAMP: A boat ramp, carry-down site, boarding dock, and approach
road, or other access that allows launching and removal of a boat, canoe, or
other watercraft with or without a vehicle and trailer.
WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A small building or other improvement,
except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining walls, that, because of the
relationship of its use to public waters, needs to be located closer to public
waters than the normal structure setback. Examples include gazebos, screen
houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached decks and patios.
WATER QUALITY IMPACT ZONE: Land within the shore impact zone or within 50' of
the OHWL of the river, whichever is greater, and land within 50' of a public
water, wetland, or natural drainage route.
WETLAND: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Statutes, section 103G.005.
WHARF: Has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, part 6115.0170.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A person designated by the City Administrator and
approved by the City Council as being jointly responsible for the
administration of this Chapter. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
ARTICLE E: DEFINITIONS OF AIRCRAFT NOISE ATTENUATION OF THIS TITLE
SECTION:
12-8E-1: DEFINITIONS:
AIRCRAFT NOISE ZONE: Any one of the four (4) zones identified on the map
attached to ordinance 232 and incorporated herein by reference.
CONSISTENT: Land uses that are acceptable.
Dba: A unit of sound pressure level weighted by use of the A metering
characteristics and weighting as specified in the American National Standards
Institute specification for sound level meters (ANSI S1.4-1983), which is
hereby incorporated by reference. “dBA” is also referred to as an A-weighted
decibel.
DNL: The day-night sound level, or the twenty four (24) hour equivalent
continuous sound level (time averaged A-weighted sound level) from twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight to twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, obtained after the
addition of ten (10) dBA to sound levels measured from ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
to seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
INCONSISTENT: Land uses that are not acceptable even if acoustical treatment
was incorporated in the structure.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: Pertains to an undeveloped parcel or parcels of land
proposed for development similar to or less noise sensitive than the developed
parcels surrounding the undeveloped parcel (for example, a new house on a
vacant lot in a residential neighborhood, or a new industry on a vacant parcel
in an established industrial area).
Ldn: The day-night average level, or the twenty four (24) hour equivalent
continuous sound level (time averaged A-weighted sound level) from twelve
o’clock (12:00) midnight to twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight, obtained after the
addition of ten (10) dBA to sound levels measured from ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
to seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
leq.: The equivalent continuous sound level which, over the period of one hour,
has the same A-weighted sound energy as the time varying sound.
MAJOR REDEVELOPMENT: A relatively large parcel of land with all structures
proposed for extensive rehabilitation or demolition, and different uses (for
example, demolition of a square block of old office and hotel buildings for new
housing, office, commercial uses; conversion of warehouse to office and
commercial uses).
NEW DEVELOPMENT: A relatively large, undeveloped tract of land proposed for
development (for example, a residential subdivision, industrial park or
shopping center).
NOISE REDUCTION LEVEL: The difference between the exterior and interior sound
level, expressed in dBA, is achieved by the intervening structure.
RECOGNIZED ACOUSTICAL SPECIALIST: A person qualified by education and
experience to conduct sound analyses of buildings and approved for such purpose
by the city. The approved individual shall have at least three (3) years of
experience in the field of sound control and a degree from a recognized
institute of higher learning in the process of sound analysis of buildings.
RECONSTRUCTION OR ADDITIONS TO EXISTING STRUCTURES: Pertains to replacing a
structure destroyed by fire, age, etc., to accommodate the same use that
existed before destruction, or expanding a structure to accommodate increased
demand for an existing use but does not pertain to remodeling or rehabilitating
existing residential buildings nor to the construction of an appurtenance to an
existing residential building.
SOUND: Energy that is transmitted by pressure waves in the air or in other
materials and is the objective cause of the sensation of hearing. It is
commonly called “noise” if it is unwanted.
SOUND ATTENUATION: The reduction in sound level which occurs between the source
and receiver.
SOUND LEAK: An opening in a structure through which sound can pass. “Sound
leaks” are often extremely small holes or cracks. In general, an air leak is a
“sound leak”.
SOUND LEVEL: The level of sound pressure measured with a sound level meter and
one of its weighting (frequency) networks. When A-weighting is used, the “sound
level” is expressed as dBA.
SOUND TRANSMISSION CLASS (STC): A single number rating for describing the
degree of sound transmission loss specified for a wall, window, partition or
other building element. The higher the STC, the more attenuation the building
element will afford. (Ord. 592, 9-17-2024)
TITLE 13
FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 1
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
13-1-1: Short Title
13-1-2: Intent And Purpose
13-1-3: Findings
13-1-4: Definitions
13-1-5: Grant Of Franchise
13-1-6: General Provisions
13-1-7: Construction Standards
13-1-8: Design Provisions
13-1-9: Service Provisions
13-1-10: Local Channels And Network Drop Provisions
13-1-11: Institutional Network (I-Net) Provisions
13-1-12: Operation And Administration Provisions
13-1-13: Financial And Insurance Provisions
13-1-14: Sale, Abandonment, Transfer And Revocation Of Franchise
13-1-15: Protection Of Individual Rights
13-1-16: Unauthorized Connections And Modifications
13-1-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
13-1-18: Effective Date And Acceptance
13-1-19: Exhibits
13-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city intends, by the adoption of this franchise, to bring about the further
development of a cable system, and the continued operation of it. Such
development can contribute significantly to the communication needs and desires
of the residents and citizens of the city and the public generally. Further,
the city may achieve better utilization and improvement of public services and
enhanced economic development with the development and operation of a cable
system. Adoption of this franchise is, in the judgment of the city council, in
the best interests of the city and its residents. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-3: FINDINGS:
In the review of the request for renewal by grantee and negotiations related
thereto, and as a result of a public hearing, the city council makes the
following findings:
   A.   Grantee's technical ability, financial condition, legal qualifications,
and character were considered and approved in a full public proceeding after
due notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard;
   B.   Grantee's plans for operating the cable system were considered and
found adequate and feasible in a full public proceeding after due notice and a
reasonable opportunity to be heard;
   C.   The franchise granted to grantee by the city complies with the existing
applicable Minnesota statutes, federal laws and regulations;
   D.   The city has exercised its authority under Minnesota law to enter into
a joint and cooperative agreement and an amended joint and cooperative
agreement with other cities authorized to grant a cable communications
franchise, and has delegated authority to the northern Dakota County cable
communications commission to make recommendations to the city regarding this
franchise and to be responsible for the ongoing administration and enforcement
of this franchise as herein provided; and
   E.   The franchise granted to grantee is nonexclusive. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this franchise, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words in the singular number include the plural number; the
word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory; the word "may" is
directory and discretionary and not mandatory.
APPLICABLE LAWS: Any law, statute, charter, ordinance, rule, regulation, code,
license, certificate, franchise, permit, writ, ruling, award, executive order,
directive, requirement, injunction (whether temporary, preliminary or
permanent), judgment, decree or other order issued, executed, entered or deemed
applicable by any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the lawful retransmission
of local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming. "Basic cable service" as defined herein shall
not be inconsistent with 47 USC section 543(b)(7).
CABLE SERVICE OR SERVICE: A. The one-way transmission to subscribers of: 1)
video programming; or 2) other programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such video programming or other programming service. "Cable service or
service" as defined herein shall not be inconsistent with the definition set
forth in 47 USC section 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A system of antennas, cables, wires, lines, towers,
waveguides, or other conductors, converters, equipment, or facilities located
in the city and designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, transmitting, amplifying, or distributing audio, video, and data.
"System" as defined herein shall not be inconsistent with the definition set
forth in 47 USC section 522(7).
CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television
channel as defined by the federal communications commission.
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights, a municipal corporation, in the state of
Minnesota, acting by and through its city council, or its lawfully appointed
designee.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota.
CLASS IV CABLE CHANNEL: A signaling path provided by a cable system to transmit
signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the system.
COMMISSION: The northern Dakota County cable communications commission or its
successors or delegations, including representatives of the member cities as
may exist pursuant to a then valid and existing joint and cooperative agreement
and amended joint and cooperative agreement between member cities.
COMMISSION OFFICE OR COMMISSION FACILITY: The facility located at 5845 Blaine
Avenue, Inver Grove Heights, Minnesota 55076-1401 or alternative location
established in the commission's sole discretion.
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
acceptable to a television receiver of a subscriber and by an appropriate
selector permits a subscriber to view all subscriber signals included in the
subscriber's service.
DROP: The cable that connects the ground block on the subscriber's residence or
institution to the nearest feeder cable of the system.
FCC: The federal communications commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FRANCHISE OR CABLE FRANCHISE: This chapter and the regulatory and contractual
relationship established hereby.
GRANTEE: MediaOne of St. Paul, Inc., its agents, employees, lawful successors,
transferees or assignees.
GROSS REVENUES: Any and all revenue received directly or indirectly by grantee,
that is derived from the operation of the cable system to provide cable
services. "Gross revenues" shall include, by way of example and not limitation,
revenues from basic cable service, all cable service fees, pay television
franchise fees, late fees, guides, home shopping, installation and reconnection
fees, upgrade and downgrade fees, converter rental fees and lockout device
fees. "Gross revenues" shall also include, to the extent permitted by
applicable laws, internet access fees and cable modem service fees resulting
from the provision of those services. The term "gross revenues" shall not
include any taxes on services furnished by grantee imposed by any municipality,
state, or other governmental unit and collected by grantee for such
governmental unit, advertising revenue, studio rental and production equipment
rental.
GUARANTY: A contract wherein the parent company, general partnership or other
persons, firms or organizations whose financial standing is used to support the
commitments of grantee will undertake to promise that the obligations, duties
and liabilities may be assumed by and become the responsibility of guarantor.
INSTALLATION: The connection, by or on the behalf of the grantee, of the system
from feeder cable to the point of connection with the subscriber converter or
other terminal equipment.
INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK OR I-Net: A communications network which is described in
section
13-1-11 of this chapter and which is generally available only to subscribers
who are not residential subscribers.
LOCAL ORIGINATION: Programming produced by either the grantee or commission
and/or city staff regarding issues and events affecting the member
municipalities of the commission. Local origination programming may include
public, governmental and educational access programming.
LOCKOUT DEVICE: An optional mechanical or electrical accessory to a
subscriber's terminal which inhibits the viewing of a certain program, certain
channel, or certain channels provided by way of the cable communication system.
MEMBER CITIES OR MEMBER MUNICIPALITIES: Those cities that are parties to a then
valid and existing joint powers agreement which, at the time of granting this
franchise, include Inver Grove Heights, Lilydale, Mendota, Mendota Heights,
Sunfish Lake, South St. Paul, and West St. Paul.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
city are open to serve customers. In all cases, "normal business hours" shall
include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions which are within the
control of grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil disturbances,
power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual weather
conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of grantee
include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate
increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade
of the system.
OTHER VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Information that a cable operator makes available to
all subscribers generally.
PEG: Public, educational and governmental.
PAY TELEVISION: The delivery over the system of pay-per- channel or pay-per-
program audiovisual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in addition to
the charge for basic cable service or cable programming services as defined at
47 USC section 623.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
other legal entity.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: The area on, below, or above any real property
in the city in which the city has an interest including, but not limited to,
any street, road, highway, alley, sidewalk, parkway, park, skyway, or any other
place, area, or real property owned by or under the control of the city,
including other dedicated rights of way for travel purposes and utility
easements.
RIGHT OF WAY ORDINANCE: Any ordinance codifying requirements regarding
regulation, management and use of rights of way in the city, including
registration and permitting requirements.
SERVICE AREA OR FRANCHISE AREA: The entire geographic area within the city as
it is now constituted or may in the future be constituted.
STANDARD INSTALLATION: Any installation which is located up to one hundred
twenty five feet (125') from the existing distribution system.
SUBSCRIBER: A member of the general public who receives broadcast programming
distributed by a cable system and does not further distribute it.
TELEVISION RECEIVER: Any device exclusive of a converter which is used by a
subscriber to tune television signals including, but not limited to, standard
television sets, video tape recorders, computer video tuner cards, or similar
devices.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to programming provided by, a television broadcast station. (Ord. 353, 2-15-
2000)
13-1-5: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise is granted pursuant to the terms and conditions contained
herein. Failure of grantee to provide a system as described herein, or meet the
obligations and comply with all provisions herein, shall be deemed a violation
of this franchise. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority:
      1.   The grantee shall have the right and privilege, subject to the
permitting and other lawful requirements of city ordinance, rule or procedure,
to construct, erect, and maintain, in, upon, along, across, above, over and
under the rights of way in the city a cable system and shall have the right and
privilege to provide cable service. The system constructed and maintained by
grantee or its agents shall not interfere with other uses of the rights of way.
Grantee shall make use of existing poles and other aboveground and belowground
facilities available to grantee to the extent it is technically and
economically feasible to do so.
      2.   Notwithstanding the above grant to use rights of way, no right of
way shall be used by grantee if the city determines that such use is
inconsistent with the terms, conditions, or provisions by which such right of
way was created or dedicated, or with the present or reasonably anticipated
future use of the right of way.
      3.   This franchise shall be nonexclusive, and the city reserves the
right to grant a use of said rights of way to any person at any time during the
period of this franchise for the provision of cable service. The terms and
conditions of any such grant of use of the rights of way shall be, when taken
as a whole, no less burdensome or more beneficial than those imposed upon
grantee pursuant to this franchise.
      4.   Before granting an additional cable television franchise, the city
shall give written notice to the grantee of any other proposal to service all
or part of the franchise area, identifying the applicant for such additional
franchise and specifying the date, time, and place at which the city shall
consider and/or determine whether such additional cable television franchise
should be granted. In the event grantee believes that the city has entered into
an additional cable television franchise with terms or provisions that are,
taken as a whole, more favorable or less burdensome than the terms set forth in
this franchise, the city shall, upon request by grantee, enter into good faith
negotiations with the grantee to consider modification of the grantee's
franchise.
   B.   Lease Or Assignment Prohibited: No person may lease any portion of
grantee's system for the purpose of providing cable service until and unless
such person shall have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid
franchise or other lawful authorization from the city. Any assignment of rights
under this franchise shall be subject to and in accordance with the
requirements of subsection 13-1-14E of this chapter.
   C.   Franchise Term: This franchise shall be in effect for a period of
fifteen (15) years from the date of acceptance by grantee, unless sooner
renewed, revoked or terminated as herein provided.
   D.   Previous Franchises: Upon acceptance by grantee as required by section
13-1-18 of this chapter, this franchise shall supersede and replace any
previous ordinance, as well as written agreements between the parties which
predate this franchise.
   E.   Compliance With Applicable Laws, Resolutions And Ordinances:
      1.   The terms of this franchise shall define the contractual rights and
obligations of grantee with respect to the provision of cable service and
operation of the system in the city. However, grantee shall at all times during
the term of this franchise be subject to all lawful exercise of the police
powers, statutory rights, and eminent domain rights of the city. This franchise
may be modified or amended with the written consent of grantee and city as
provided in subsection 13-1-17C of this chapter.
      2.   Grantee shall comply with the terms of any city ordinance or
regulation of general applicability which addresses usage of the rights of way
within the city, including any right of way ordinance, which may have the
effect of superseding, modifying or amending the terms of section
13-1-7 and/or section
13-1-12 of this chapter; except, that grantee shall not, through application of
such city ordinance or regulation of rights of way, be subject to additional
burdens with respect to usage of rights of way which conflict with federal law
or exceed burdens on similarly situated rights of way users.
      3.   In the event of any conflict between section
13-1-7 and/or section
13-1-12 of this chapter and any lawful and generally applicable city ordinance
or regulation which addresses usage of the rights of way, the conflicting terms
in section
13-1-7 and/or section
13-1-12 of this chapter shall be superseded by such city ordinance or
regulation; except, that grantee shall not, through application of such city
ordinance or regulation of rights of way, be subject to additional burdens with
respect to usage of rights of way which conflict with federal law or exceed
burdens on similarly situated rights of way users.
      4.   In the event any city lawfully and generally applicable ordinance or
regulation which addresses usage of the rights of way adds to, modifies,
amends, or otherwise differently addresses issues addressed in section
13-1-7 and/or section
13-1-12 of this chapter, grantee shall comply with such ordinance or regulation
of general applicability, regardless of which requirement was first adopted;
except, that grantee shall not, through application of such city ordinance or
regulation of rights of way, be subject to additional burdens with respect to
usage of rights of way which conflict with federal law or exceed burdens on
similarly situated rights of way users.
      5.   In the event grantee cannot determine how to comply with any right
of way requirement of the city, whether pursuant to this franchise or other
requirement, grantee shall immediately provide written notice of such question,
including grantee's proposed interpretation, to the city, in accordance with
subsection H of this section. The city shall provide a written response within
seventeen (17) days of receipt indicating how the requirement cited by grantee
applies. Grantee may proceed in accordance with its proposed interpretation in
the event a written response is not received within seventeen (17) days of
mailing or delivering such written question.
   F.   Rules Of Grantee: Grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such
rules, regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business
as shall be reasonably necessary to enable said grantee to exercise its rights
and perform its obligations under this franchise and to assure uninterrupted
service to each and all of its subscribers; provided, that such rules,
regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with applicable
laws.
   G.   Territorial Area Involved: This franchise is granted for the corporate
boundaries of the city, as they exist from time to time. Consistent with
subsection 13-1-8G of this chapter, in the event of annexation by the city, or
as development occurs, any new territory shall become part of the territory for
which this franchise is granted; provided, however, that grantee shall only be
required to extend service beyond its present system boundaries pursuant to
subsection 13-1-8H of this chapter. Grantee shall be given a reasonable period
of time to construct and activate cable plant to service annexed or newly
developed areas but in no event to exceed twelve (12) months from notice
thereof by the city to grantee and qualification pursuant to the density
requirements of subsection 13-1-8H of this chapter.
   H.   Written Notice:
      1.   All notices, reports, or demands required to be given in writing
under this franchise shall be deemed to be given when delivered personally to
any officer of grantee or city administrator of this franchise during normal
business hours or forty eight (48) hours after it is deposited in the United
States mail in a sealed envelope, with registered or certified mail postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the party to whom notice is being given, as
follows:
 
                  City Administrator
If to city:       City of Mendota Heights
                  1101 Victoria Curve
                  Mendota Heights, MN 55118
                  Executive Director
                  Northern Dakota County Cable
If to commission: Communications Commission
                  5845 Blaine Avenue
                  Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
                  General Manager
If to grantee:    MediaOne of St. Paul, Inc.
                  10 River Park Plaza
                  St. Paul, MN 55107
 
      2.   Such addresses may be changed by either party upon notice to the
other party given, as provided in this section.
   I.   Ownership Of Grantee: Grantee represents and warrants to city and
commission that the relevant corporate ownership of the grantee as of the
effective date of this franchise is set forth in section
13-1-19, exhibit A, of this chapter. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Registration; Permits; Construction Codes; Cooperation:
      1.   Grantee agrees to obtain a permit as required by the city prior to
removing, abandoning, relocating or reconstructing, if necessary, any portion
of its facilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city understands and
acknowledges there may be instances when grantee is required to make repairs,
in compliance with federal or state laws, that are of an emergency nature.
Grantee shall notify the city prior to such repairs, if practicable, and shall
obtain the necessary permits in a reasonable time after notification to the
city.
      2.   Generally applicable fees and reimbursement paid through the
permitting process is separate from, and in addition to, any other fees
included in the franchise.
      3.   Failure to obtain permits or comply with permit requirements shall
be grounds for revocation of this franchise, or any lesser sanctions provided
herein, or in any other applicable law. Grantee shall not open or disturb the
surface of any rights of way or public place for any purpose without first
having obtained a permit to do so in the manner provided by law. All excavation
shall be coordinated with other utility excavation or construction so as to
minimize disruption to the public.
   B.   Use Of Existing Poles Or Conduits:
      1.   Grantee shall utilize existing poles, conduits and other facilities
whenever commercially and technologically feasible, and shall not construct or
install any new, different or additional poles whether on public property or on
privately owned property until the written approval of the city is obtained. No
location or any pole or wire holding structure of grantee shall be a vested
interest, and any grantee poles or structures shall be removed or modified by
grantee at its own expense whenever the city determines that the public
convenience would be enhanced thereby.
      2.   The facilities of grantee shall be placed underground where all
utility lines are placed underground.
   C.   Minimum Interference:
      1.   Grantee shall use its best efforts to give reasonable prior notice
to any adjacent private property owners who will be negatively affected or
impacted by grantee's work in the rights of way.
      2.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
maintained by grantee shall be located so as to cause minimum interference with
the unencumbered use of rights of way and other public places except for normal
and reasonable obstruction and interference which might occur during
construction and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin any of the rights of way and public
places.
   D.   Disturbance Or Damage: Any and all rights of way, or public or private
property, which are disturbed or damaged during the repair, replacement,
relocation, operation, maintenance, expansion, extension or reconstruction of
the system shall be promptly and fully restored by grantee, at its expense, to
substantially the same condition as that prevailing prior to grantee's work, as
determined by the city. If grantee shall fail to promptly perform the
restoration required herein, after written request of the city and reasonable
opportunity to satisfy that request, city shall have the right to put the
rights of way, public, or private property back into substantially the same
condition as that prevailing prior to grantee's work. In the event the city
determines that grantee is responsible for such disturbance or damage and fails
to restore as set forth in this section, grantee shall be obligated to fully
reimburse the city for such restoration within thirty (30) days after its
receipt of the city's invoice therefor.
   E.   Temporary Relocation:
      1.   At any time during the period of the franchise, grantee shall, at
its own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove
any of its property when, in the opinion of the city: a) the same is required
by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, rights of way vacation, city
freeway or rights of way construction, city alteration to or establishment of
any rights of way or any facility within the rights of way, sidewalk, or other
public place, including, but not limited to, installation of sewers, drains,
water lines, power lines, traffic signal lines or transportation facilities; or
b) a city project or activity makes temporary disconnection, removal, or
relocation necessary or less expensive for the city.
      2.   Grantee shall, on request of any person holding a permit to move a
building, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the movement of such
buildings. The actual expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering
of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and grantee shall
have the authority to require such payment in advance. Grantee shall be given
not less than ten (10) days' advance written notice from such person holding a
permit to arrange such temporary wire alterations.
   F.   Emergency: Whenever, in case of fire or other emergency, it becomes
necessary in the judgment of the city administrator, police chief, fire chief,
or their delegates, to remove or damage any of grantee's facilities, no charge
shall be made by grantee against the city for restoration, repair or damages.
Notwithstanding the above, grantee reserves the right to assert a right of
reimbursement or compensation from any responsible party.
   G.   Tree Trimming: Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees on public
rights of way at its own expense as may be necessary to protect its wires and
facilities, subject to any required supervision and direction by the city.
Trimming of trees on private property shall require consent of the property
owner. Any trimming of trees by the grantee in the rights of way shall be
subject to such generally applicable regulation as the city administrator or
other authorized official may establish to protect the public health, safety
and convenience.
   H.   Protection Of Facilities: Nothing contained in this section shall
relieve any person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise
reasonable care to avoid damaging grantee's facilities while performing any
work connected with grading, regrading or changing the line of any rights of
way or public place or the construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water
system.
   I.   Installation Records: Grantee shall keep accurate installation records,
maps or diagrams, of the location of all facilities in the rights of way and
public ways and furnish them to the city upon request. Grantee shall cooperate
with the city to furnish, if possible, such information in an electronic
mapping format compatible with the then current city electronic mapping format.
At the commencement of this franchise and upon completion of any further
construction or relocation of underground facilities in the rights of way and
public ways, grantee shall provide the city, if possible, with installation
records in an electronic format compatible with the then current city
electronic mapping format showing the location of the underground and
aboveground facilities.
   J.   Locating Facilities:
      1.   If, during the design process for public improvements, the city
discovers a potential conflict with proposed construction, grantee shall
either: a) locate and, if necessary, expose its facilities in conflict; or b)
use a location service under contract with the city or state to locate or
expose its facilities. Grantee is obligated to furnish the location information
in a timely manner, but in no case longer than thirty (30) days.
      2.   The city reserves the prior and superior right to lay, construct,
erect, install, use, operate, repair, replace, remove, relocate, regrade,
widen, realign, or maintain any rights of way, aerial, surface, or subsurface
improvement, including, but not limited to, water mains, traffic control
conduits, sanitary or storm sewers, subways, tunnels, bridges, viaducts, or any
other public construction within the rights of way of the city limits.
   K.   City's Rights: Nothing in this franchise shall be construed to prevent
the city from constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating sewers;
grading, paving, maintaining, repairing, relocating and/or altering any right
of way; constructing, laying down, repairing, maintaining or relocating any
water mains; or constructing, maintaining, relocating, or repairing any
sidewalk or other public works.
   L.   Facilities In Conflict: If, during the course of a project, the city
determines grantee's facilities are in conflict, then grantee shall, within a
reasonable time, but in no event exceeding four (4) months, remove or relocate
the conflicting facility. This time period shall begin running upon receipt by
grantee of written notice from the city. However, if both the city and grantee
agree, the time frame may be extended based on the requirements of the project.
   M.   Interference With City Facilities: The installation, use and
maintenance of grantee's facilities within the rights of way and public ways
authorized herein shall be in such a manner as not to unreasonably interfere
with the city's placement, construction, use and maintenance of its rights of
way and public ways, rights of way lighting, water pipes, drains, sewers,
traffic signal systems or other city systems that have been, or may be,
installed, maintained, used or authorized by the city.
   N.   Interference With Utility Facilities: Grantee agrees not to install,
maintain or use any of its facilities in such a manner as to damage or
unreasonably interfere with any existing facilities of a utility located within
the rights of way and public ways of the city. Nothing in this section is meant
to limit any rights grantee may have under applicable laws to be compensated
for the cost of relocating its facilities from the utility that is requesting
the relocation.
   O.   Collocation: To maximize public and employee safety, to minimize visual
clutter of aerial plant, and to minimize the amount of trenching and excavation
in and along the city rights of way and sidewalks for underground plant,
grantee shall make every commercially reasonable effort to collocate compatible
facilities within the rights of way subject to the engineering requirements of
the owners of utility poles and other facilities, in the case that relocation
or extension of grantee's facilities is approved or required by the city.
   P.   Safety Requirements:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary and reasonable care and
shall install, maintain, and use nothing less than commonly accepted methods
and devices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause
damage or injuries.
      2.   Grantee shall install and maintain its system and other equipment in
accordance with the city codes and the requirements of the national electric
safety code and all other applicable FCC, state and local regulations, and in
such manner that they will not interfere with the city communications
technology related to health, safety and welfare of the residents.
      3.   Cable system structures, lines, equipment and connections in, over,
under and upon the rights of way of the city, wherever situated or located,
shall at all times be kept and maintained in good condition, order, and repair
so that the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of the city
or any person. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-8: DESIGN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minimum Channel Capacity:
      1.   Upon the effective date of this franchise, grantee's system has a
750 MHz capacity and utilizes a hybrid fiber coaxial architecture. Grantee's
system shall continue to provide and utilize a minimum of 550 MHz for cable
services and shall continue to provide for the term of this franchise a minimum
of 750 MHz capacity.
      2.   Maintenance of the system, as described in section
13-1-19, exhibit C, of this chapter, shall occur.
      3.   Grantee shall maintain a system capable of providing nonvideo cable
services such as high speed data transmission, internet access, and other
competitive services. It is anticipated that grantee may use 200 MHz of the
total 750 MHz system capacity for the provision of such services.
      4.   All final programming decisions remain the discretion of grantee in
accordance with this franchise, provided grantee notifies the city and
subscribers in writing thirty (30) days prior to any channel additions,
deletions or realignments, in the manner and to the extent required by federal
law, and subject to grantee's signal carriage obligations hereunder, and
pursuant to 47 USC sections 531 through 536 and to the city's rights pursuant
to 47 USC section 545. Location and relocation of the PEG channels shall be
governed by section
13-1-10 and section
13-1-19, exhibit B, of this chapter.
   B.   Interruption Of Service: To the extent within grantee's control in the
ordinary course of business, grantee shall interrupt service only for good
cause and for the shortest time possible. Such interruption shall occur during
periods of minimum use of the system rebuttably presumed to be between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. local
time. If service is interrupted for a total period of more than twenty four
(24) continuous hours to one or more subscribers in any thirty (30) day period,
those subscribers shall, upon request, be credited pro rata for such
interruption.
   C.   Technical Standards: The technical standards used in the operation of
the system shall comply, at minimum, with the technical standards promulgated
by the FCC relating to cable systems pursuant to title 47, section 76, subpart
K of the code of federal regulations, as may be amended or modified from time
to time, which regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference. In
addition, to the maximum extent that the FCC has not specifically preempted the
city's rights to set its own technical standards for the operation of grantee's
cable system, grantee is subject to the technical standards outlined in section
13-1-19, exhibit C, paragraph 5 of this chapter.
   D.   Special Testing:
      1.   Throughout the term of this franchise, the city shall have the right
to inspect all construction or installation work performed pursuant to the
provisions of the franchise. In addition, the city may require special testing
of a location or locations within the system if there is a particular matter of
controversy or unresolved complaints regarding such construction or
installation work or pertaining to such location. Demand for such special tests
may be made on the basis of complaints received or other evidence indicating an
unresolved controversy or noncompliance. Such tests shall be limited to the
particular matter in controversy or unresolved complaints. The city shall
endeavor to so arrange its request for such special testing so as to minimize
hardship or inconvenience to grantee or to the subscribers caused by such
testing.
      2.   Before ordering such tests, grantee shall be afforded thirty (30)
days following receipt of written notice to investigate and, if necessary,
correct problems or complaints upon which tests were ordered. The city shall
meet with grantee prior to requiring special tests to discuss the need for such
and, if possible, visually inspect those locations which are the focus of
concern. If, after such meetings and inspections, the city wishes to commence
special tests and the thirty (30) days have elapsed without correction of the
matter in controversy or unresolved complaints, the tests shall be conducted at
grantee's expense by a qualified engineer selected by the city, and grantee
shall cooperate in such testing.
   E.   Drop Testing And Replacement: Grantee shall insert a 750 MHz carrier or
equivalent at a level 10 dB below the video carriers that shall be measured and
recorded by grantee as a normal procedure during all service and installation
calls. In addition, the drops and related passive equipment may be inspected to
assure that the drop and passive equipment can pass the full 750 MHz system
capacity. In the event measurement of the carrier or the inspection
demonstrates that a drop or associated passive equipment does not pass the full
750 MHz, the subscriber address will be recorded by grantee, and grantee shall
provide the city and commission, or their designees, upon request, a report
indicating the addresses where drops or associated passive equipment have
failed. Grantee shall replace all failing drops and/or associated passive
equipment at the time the address upgrades service to a level which requires a
signal above the 550 MHz spectrum at no separate charge to the individual
subscriber.
   F.   FCC Reports: The results of any tests required to be filed by grantee
with the FCC or placed in grantee's public inspection file as required by FCC
rules, shall also be made available to the city or its designee upon request
within ten (10) days of the conduct of the date of request.
   G.   Annexation: Upon the annexation of any additional land area by the
city, the annexed area shall thereafter be subject to all the terms of this
franchise immediately upon notification to grantee of the annexation by the
city.
   H.   Line Extension:
      1.   Grantee shall construct and operate its cable system so as to
provide service to all parts of its franchise area as provided in this
franchise and having a density equivalent to seven (7) dwelling units per one-
quarter (1/4) mile of feeder cable as measured from the nearest active plant if
the extension is to be constructed using aerial plant, and ten (10) dwelling
units per one-quarter (1/4) mile of feeder cable as measured from the nearest
active plant if the extension is to be constructed using underground plant. The
city, for its part, shall endeavor to exercise reasonable efforts to require
developers and utility companies to provide the grantee with at least fifteen
(15) days' advance notice of an available open trench for the placement of
necessary cable.
      2.   Where the density is less than that specified above, grantee shall
inform persons requesting service of the possibility of paying for installation
or a line extension and shall offer to provide them with a free written
estimate of the cost, which shall be provided within fifteen (15) working days
of such a request. The charge for installation or extension for each person
requesting service shall not exceed a pro rata share of the actual cost of
extending the service, and grantee shall not be obligated to extend its system
until seventy five percent (75%) of the persons requesting service in such area
have prepaid their pro rata share of the extension.
      3.   Any residential unit located within one hundred twenty five feet
(125') of the nearest active plant on grantee's system shall be connected to
the system at no charge other than the standard installation charge. Grantee
shall, upon request by any potential subscriber residing in the city beyond the
one hundred twenty five foot (125') limit, extend service to such subscriber;
provided, that the subscriber shall pay the net additional drop costs.
      4.   Under normal operating conditions, if grantee cannot perform
installations within the times specified in applicable customer standards, the
subscriber may request and is entitled to receive a credit equal to the charge
for a standard installation. For any installation that is not a free
installation or a standard installation, grantee shall provide the subscriber
with a written estimate of all charges within twelve (12) days of a request by
the subscriber. Failure to comply will subject grantee to appropriate
enforcement actions. This subsection does not apply to the introduction of new
products and services when grantee is utilizing a phased introduction.
   I.   Nonvoice Return Capability: Grantee is required to use cable and
associated electronics having the technical capacity for nonvoice return
communications.
   J.   Lockout Device: Upon the request of a subscriber, grantee shall make
available a lockout device in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 353, 2-15-
2000)
13-1-9: SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Regulation Of Service Rates: The city may regulate rates for the
provision of cable service, equipment, or any other communications service
provided over the system to the extent allowed under applicable laws. The city
and commission reserve the right to regulate rates for any future services to
the extent permitted by applicable laws. Any rate regulation undertaken by the
city shall at all times comply with the rate regulations of the FCC, at 47 CFR
section 76.900 et seq., as may from time to time be amended.
   B.   Nonstandard Installations: Grantee shall install and provide cable
service to any person requesting other than a standard installation; provided,
that said cable service can meet FCC technical specifications. In such case,
grantee may charge for the incremental increase in material and labor costs
incurred beyond the standard installation.
   C.   Sales Procedures: Grantee shall not exercise deceptive sales procedures
when marketing any of its services within the city. In its initial
communication or contact with a prospective subscriber and in all general
solicitation materials marketing the grantee or its services as a whole,
grantee shall inform the prospective subscriber of all levels of service
available, including the lowest priced service tiers. Grantee shall have the
right to market door to door during reasonable hours consistent with applicable
laws.
   D.   Consumer Protection And Service Standards: Grantee shall maintain a
convenient local customer service and bill payment location in Dakota County
for receiving subscriber payments, handling billing questions and equipment
replacement. Grantee shall comply with the following consumer protection
standards:
      1.   Cable System Office Hours And Telephone Availability:
         a.   Grantee will maintain a local, toll free or collect call
telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers twenty four
(24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week.
            (1)   Trained grantee representatives will be available to respond
to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
            (2)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered
by a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
         b.   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed thirty (30)
seconds when the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred,
transfer time shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds. These standards shall be
met no less than ninety percent (90%) of the time under normal operating
conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
         c.   Grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless a historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
         d.   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the time.
         e.   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open
at least during normal business hours. Payment drop boxes shall be emptied at
least once a day, Monday through Friday, with the exception of legal holidays,
and payments shall be posted to subscribers' accounts within forty eight (48)
hours of pick up. Subscribers shall not be charged a late fee or otherwise
penalized for any failure by the grantee to empty a drop box as specified
herein, or to properly credit a subscriber for a payment timely made. Grantee
shall provide subscribers with notice regarding drop box payment, pick up and
posting procedures.
      2.   Installations, Outages And Service Calls: Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four (4) standards will be met no less than
ninety five percent (95%) of the time, measured on a quarterly basis:
         a.   Standard installations will be performed within seven (7)
business days after an order has been placed. "Standard" installations are
those that are located up to one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the
existing distribution system.
         b.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of grantee, grantee will
begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no event later than
twenty four (24) hours after the interruption becomes known. Grantee must begin
action to correct other service problems the next business day after
notification of the service problem.
         c.   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four (4) hour time block during normal business hours. (Grantee
shall schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of
normal business hours for the express convenience of the customer.)
         d.   Grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
         e.   If grantee's representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
         f.   For purposes of determining conditions beyond the control of
grantee under this section, power outages of grantee's power supplies or
telephone system may be within the control of grantee.
      3.   Communications Between Grantee And Subscribers:
         a.   Notifications To Subscribers:
            (1)   Grantee shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
   (A) Products and services offered;
   (B) Prices and options for all levels, including free programming services
and conditions of subscription to programming and other services;
   (C) Installation and service maintenance policies;
   (D) Instructions on how to use the cable service;
   (E) Channel positions of the programming carried on the system; and
   (F) Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and telephone
number of the commission's office.
            (2)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming services or channel positions as soon as possible in writing.
Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of thirty (30) days in advance of
such changes if the changes are within the control of grantee. In addition, the
grantee shall notify subscribers thirty (30) days in advance of any significant
changes in the other information required by subsection D3a(1) of this section.
Grantee shall not be required to provide prior notice of any rate changes as a
result of a regulatory fee, franchise fee, or other fees, tax, assessment or
charge of any kind imposed by any federal agency, state, or franchising
authority, on the transaction between the operator and the subscriber.
         b.   Billing:
            (1)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must
be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
            (2)   In case of a billing dispute, grantee must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days.
         c.   Refunds: Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
            (1)   The customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or thirty (30) days, whichever is earlier; or
            (2)   The return of the equipment supplied by grantee if service is
terminated.
         d.   Credits: Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
      4.   Customer Service Compliance Report: Grantee shall provide the city
with a quarterly customer service compliance report which shall, at a minimum,
demonstrate grantee's compliance with the terms and provisions of this
subsection and any additional customer service requirements contained in this
franchise, FCC customer service obligations, and other applicable laws, and
include a summary by category of subscriber complaints summarizing the number
and nature of such complaints.
   E.   Subscriber Contracts: Grantee shall file with commission any standard
form subscriber contract utilized by grantee. If no such written contract
exists, grantee shall file with the city a document completely and concisely
stating the length and terms of the subscriber contract offered to customers.
The length and terms of any subscriber contract shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
   F.   Refund Policy: In the event a subscriber establishes or terminates
service and receives less than a full month's service, grantee shall prorate
the monthly rate on the basis of the number of days in the period for which
service was rendered to the number of days in the billing.
   G.   Late Fees: Fees for the late payment of bills shall not be assessed by
grantee until after the service has been fully provided and then, only if the
bill remains unpaid after the subscriber is notified of a delinquent balance.
Late fees shall be based on a reasonable estimate of projected costs to grantee
of late payment of bills and the servicing and collecting of such accounts.
(Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-10: LOCAL CHANNELS AND NETWORK DROP PROVISIONS:
   A.   Grantee Support For PEG Access: Grantee shall provide the following
support for PEG access within the service area:
      1.   Provision of the channels designated in section
13-1-19, exhibit B, of this chapter for PEG access programming at no charge in
accordance with the requirements of exhibit B.
      2.   Financial support of PEG access and local origination programming to
the extent specified in said section
13-1-19, exhibit B, of this chapter.
      3.   Continuing technical assistance and support for all PEG channels,
including line checks, tests, audio/video adjustments, live feeds, and any
other technical issues related to the PEG channels.
   B.   Subscriber Network Drops To Designated Building:
      1.   Grantee shall provide, free of charge, throughout the term of this
franchise, installation of one subscriber network drop, one cable outlet, one
converter, if necessary, and the highest level of cable service offered by
grantee, excluding pay-per-view, pay-per-channel (premium) programming, high
speed data services or newly created nonvideo cable services, without charge to
the institutions identified in section
13-1-19, exhibit B-1, of this chapter, and such other public institutions
subsequently designated by the city as determined in the city's sole
discretion. This requirement shall not include any digital tier of services
grantee may offer unless and until such time as grantee's digital programming
reduces the amount of spectrum available for analog programming to less than
approximately eighty (80) channels of analog programming. Grantee shall be
responsible for the costs of extension to subsequently designated institutions
for the first five hundred feet (500'), as measured from grantee's nearest
active plant. The institution shall pay any net additional drop or extension
costs beyond the five hundred feet (500').
      2.   Additional subscriber network drops and/or outlets in any of the
locations identified in section
13-1-19, exhibit B-1, of this chapter will be installed by grantee at the
lowest actual cost of grantee's time and material. Alternatively, said
institutions may add outlets at their own expense, as long as such installation
meets grantee's standards and approval, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld. Grantee shall have three (3) months from the date of the
city designation of additional accredited schools or public institution(s) or
relocations to complete construction of the drop and outlet unless weather or
other conditions beyond the control of grantee require more time. The provision
of institutional network service is addressed separately in section
13-1-11 of this chapter.
      3.   Grantee shall comply with the August 1, 1995, social contract with
the FCC, as amended, with respect to the provision of free service connections
and on line services to be made available to all public and private schools in
the city. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-11: INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK (I-NET) PROVISIONS:
   A.   Institutional Network Facilities And Capacity; Cost Recovery By
Grantee:
      1.   The grantee shall construct an institutional network which, at the
outset, consists of the following infrastructure: a) bi-directional minimum six
(6) count fiber optic lines in a ring and/or a star architecture to the
locations within the NDC4 franchise area as listed in section
13-1-19, exhibit G (I-Net user sites), of this chapter as designated as primary
sites by the commission; b) bi-directional fiber optic lines in a star
architecture from certain primary sites to certain secondary sites, as
designated by the commission and in a minimum quantity consisting of a four (4)
count fiber per site; and c) a minimum of a two (2) count HFC network per node
to certain other secondary sites, as designated by the commission. Within the
first ninety (90) days from the effective date of this franchise, grantee shall
provide the commission with a complete, detailed design and cost estimate for
the I-Net infrastructure described above. Within ninety (90) days thereafter,
the commission shall work with I-Net users to review the design and cost
estimate, and provide changes to the grantee for incorporation into the final
I-Net design. Final architecture, site designation, and fiber count of a), b),
and c) herein are subject to commission or designee approval. The grantee shall
only begin work on construction of the I-Net once final approval is received
from the commission, and shall complete I-Net construction within twenty one
(21) months from the effective date of this franchise. Some portions of the I-
Net will be activated prior to final completion. The institutional network
shall have the infrastructure (and, where noted, the equipment) that provides
the capability to transmit any and all signals between the sites listed in
section
13-1-19, exhibit G, of this chapter.
      2.   I-Net users may not sell or resell services or capacity to any third
party. However, I-Net users may provide services to themselves, including those
which the grantee otherwise sells to others (for example, an institution may
provide internet service to itself or to other institutions that the grantee
sells to others). The limitations of this subsection A2 shall not prevent the
city or the commission from subleasing, bartering, selling, reselling or giving
away capacity on the institutional network to any other public or nonprofit
entity for noncommercial purposes that do not directly compete with any
products or services offered by the grantee.
      3.   The city or the institutions listed in section
13-1-19, exhibit G (I-Net user sites), of this chapter shall be responsible for
reimbursing grantee for its actual cost of constructing and maintaining all
portions of the I-Net required by this section. The institutions listed in
section
13-1-19, exhibit G (I-Net user sites), of this chapter shall not be charged by
the grantee for usage of the institutional network. The city or other I-Net
users may elect to pay the actual cost of the I-Net on a monthly basis,
appropriately amortized over the life of the franchise. The terms and
conditions of such payment option will be reflected in an I-Net service
agreement to be developed prior to construction of the I-Net. Such terms and
conditions must be in accordance with the other provisions of this section and
associated exhibits. If future I-Net sites are identified and activated under
subsection C of this section, grantee shall submit an invoice for those
construction costs in a manner similar to submission of the initial
construction costs of the I-Net.
      4.   "Actual cost", as used in this subsection, means the incremental
cost to the grantee of materials and capitalized labor necessary to install and
construct fiber optic lines, coaxial cable, and/or equipment together with the
most recent return on investment authorized by the FCC. For fiber
infrastructure that was in place prior to the effective date of this franchise,
"actual cost" shall include only fifty percent (50%) of grantee's incremental
cost of grantee materials devoted to the I-Net but not the cost of installation
of such materials.
      5.   Except as provided in this section, I-Net users connected to the I-
Net via fiber or HFC shall be responsible for any end user or interface
equipment needed for transmission or reception of signals. However, grantee
shall provide at no charge, upon request and at the time necessary for use,
modulators and associated fiber optic signal transmission and reception
equipment for single channel return purposes for each public and private
accredited educational institution, each city hall and the commission's office,
as approved by the city and/or commission. (Note: Grantee presently maintains
several modulators at the commission's office to facilitate various cable
casting requirements; these modulators must be maintained throughout the term
of the franchise.) With respect to nonvideo end user equipment, upon request by
a designated institution, grantee must either lease the equipment requested to
the requesting institution or make reasonable efforts to arrange for the lease
of such equipment. Within thirty (30) days of a written request, grantee must
notify the requesting institution in writing of its ability or inability to
lease the requested equipment and the terms of such lease. The city, its
designee, or the requesting institution may purchase or lease the equipment
from any vendor.
      6.   All I-Net users shall be connected via fiber optic lines or a
combination of fiber optics and coaxial cable as determined by the commission
to a hub located within the NDC4 system. The I-Net architecture shall
facilitate transmission of all required signals within the city boundaries,
transmission of signals beyond the city boundaries within the NDC4 area, and
transmission of signals to other networks in the Twin Cities area. The grantee
shall provide and install all equipment and infrastructure necessary, which is
reimbursable to grantee under same terms and conditions set forth in subsection
A3 of this section, to achieve the required level of interconnection with other
Twin Cities area I-Nets provided by grantee. Specifically, this includes, but
is not limited to, interconnecting the NDC4 area I-Net with I-Nets that have
been or may be constructed in Burnsville/Eagan, the NSCC area and Hastings.
Grantee shall also work with the commission to establish interconnects with the
cable system in Apple Valley and with the connecting Minnesota network.
      7.   I-Net equipment at the hub shall be connected to a gas powered
generator capable of providing continuous electrical power, or equivalent, and
to an uninterruptible power supply that both conditions commercial power and
provides for zero transfer time between normal commercial power and hub backup
generators.
   B.   Hybrid Fiber Coaxial Portions Of Institutional Network:
      1.   The hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) portion of the I-Net shall provide
450 MHz of activated capacity (5-42 MHz for upstream channels and 54-450 MHz
for downstream channels) to the HFC I-Net sites. The HFC I-Net shall have fiber
introduced into it to limit amplifier cascades to no more than five (5).
      2.   All I-Net distribution system power supplies shall have the standby
capability of providing at least three (3) hours of backup power and shall have
status monitoring installed in them. Prior to battery failure, the grantee
shall connect I-Net node power supplies to portable generators capable of
producing adequate electrical current until commercial power is restored.
   C.   Future Fiber To Institution Requirements:
      1.   The city or commission may identify certain I-Net sites that will
not be activated at the time the initial I-Net is activated. So long as such
sites are located on the I-Net user sites list, grantee agrees to include
splice points and splice point housings on those portions of the system where
additional fiber will need to be deployed or additional connections will need
to be made. Upon notification from the city, the grantee will provide cost
estimates within ninety (90) days of a request by the grantor for I-Net
extension to the additional sites.
      2.   The city or commission may also identify sites following completion
and activation of the I-Net. Estimated costs for serving those sites will be
provided within ninety (90) days of notification by the city or commission. If
an extension of the I-Net is required to serve the site, grantee will make the
I-Net available within one hundred twenty (120) days from the initial request.
The fiber optic lines required by this section shall be passively terminated to
standard connectors at the patch panel of the telephone equipment room of each
site or at another designated location.
   D.   Grantee's Use Of I-Net Capacity: The I-Net shall be for the exclusive
use of the city, the commission and I-Net users throughout the term of the
franchise, or any renewal or extension thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the grantee may use capacity on the I-Net, including for lease or other
commercial purposes; provided, that the city, the commission and I-Net users
are not using such capacity; and further provided, that the grantee's use does
not interfere with use of the I-Net by the city, the commission or I-Net users.
Upon receiving oral or written notice from the commission, the grantee or a
lessee shall immediately cease using the I-Net for any purpose that the
commission, in its sole discretion, determines is interfering with I-Net users'
communications. The grantee or a lessee may appeal any determination of
commission concerning I-Net interference to the city within ten (10) days of
the date that the requisite notice is received by the grantee. Any such appeal
shall: 1) be in writing; 2) list the reasons that the commission's
determination regarding interference with I-Net users' communications is
incorrect; and 3) include any other information the grantee or a lessee wishes
the city to consider. Within forty five (45) calendar days of receiving a
written appeal under this subsection, the city shall: 1) determine whether the
commission's conclusion that the grantee or lessee was interfering with I-Net
users' communications was justified; and 2) inform the grantee or lessee in
writing of its findings. This provision shall not limit any other appeal rights
of grantee. Use of the I-Net by the city, the commission and I-Net users shall,
at all times, have priority over any use by the grantee or any lessee. The
grantee or a lessee shall terminate its use of any channel capacity on the I-
Net within six (6) months after receiving notice from the commission that the
city, the commission, or any I-Net user has determined to use such capacity.
Any agreement entered into by the grantee and a third party for the lease of I-
Net capacity shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this franchise.
   E.   I-Net Performance Standards:
      1.   The grantee shall maintain the I-Net in accordance with technical
and performance standards set forth in section
13-1-19, exhibit D (minimum I-Net performance standards), of this chapter. The
grantee shall provide the city, or its designee, upon request, with reports of
the performance of the I-Net and the grantee's compliance with the
aforementioned technical and performance standards.
      2.   If, at any time, the performance of the I-Net is not in compliance
with pertinent technical and performance standards, and continues to be in
noncompliance for a period of fifteen (15) days after notice and opportunity to
correct is given to grantee, then affected city or other I-Net users may cease
payment until the noncompliance situation is resolved.
      3.   The city or I-Net users may ultimately terminate their use of and
payment for I-Net infrastructure based on repeated, demonstrated nonperformance
or noncompliance by grantee with the terms of this section and the associated
exhibits, after giving grantee notice and opportunity to correct the problem
causing nonperformance or noncompliance. Grantee will also be liable for all
other applicable noncompliance penalties contained in the franchise.
   F.   Completion Of Institutional Network: Construction of the institutional
network pursuant to this section shall be deemed completed upon satisfaction of
the following:
      1.   The grantee shall notify the city, or its designee, in writing at
least ten (10) days in advance of completion of construction of each I-Net
node, I-Net site on the ring, I-Net star connection, and HFC end-of-line. The
notice shall include the date the grantee is prepared to conduct an OTDR test
at 1550 nm and 1310 nm end-to-end, RF noise, distortion and peak- to-valley
tests according to FCC rules, NCTA recommended practices and other acceptable
test methodologies and other applicable tests. The commission, or its designee,
shall have the option of attending any test conducted pursuant to this
subsection F1. All tests must be successfully completed. The fiber optic test
shall be deemed successfully completed if the optical performance standards in
section
13-1-19, exhibit D, of this chapter are met or bettered. The coaxial tests
shall also be deemed successfully completed if the specifications detailed in
said exhibit D are met or exceeded.
      2.   The city, or its designee, shall also have the option of conducting
a physical inspection of the construction and connections to each I-Net site
and each I-Net node. This inspection shall be conducted no later than the date
of the test in subsection F1 of this section.
      3.   After completing installation to each I-Net site or each I-Net node,
the grantee shall provide the following documentation to the city or its
designee: splice locations, panel numbers, cable numbering schemes, location of
splitters, location of all RF actives and passives, OTDR, other optical, RF and
coaxial test results and documentation, and any other pertinent documentation.
   G.   Institutional Network Security: The grantee and the city shall at all
times use reasonable efforts to protect the security of the institutional
network. For purposes of this subsection, "to protect security" means to
protect those physical elements of the institutional network under the party's
direct control from unauthorized intrusion, signal theft, tampering,
wiretapping or other actions that might: 1) compromise the integrity of or
degrade the signals carried over the institutional network; or 2) result in the
unauthorized interception and disclosure of information. Grantee's hub site
shall be made available, upon request, for placement and operation of end user
supplied equipment.
   H.   Institutional Network Repair And Maintenance:
      1.   The grantee shall maintain, repair, reconstruct and, as necessary,
replace the fiber optic or HFC portions of the I-Net and shall recover the
actual cost for such activities from the city and I-Net users, as set forth in
subsection A of this section.
      2.   The grantee shall maintain, repair, reconstruct and, as necessary,
replace portions of the institutional network plant, as described in
subsections H2a and H2b of this section, during the term of this franchise or
any extension thereof:
         a.   Preventative and routine maintenance of the I-Net shall be
performed in the same time frame and in the same fashion as routine and
preventative maintenance are performed for the grantee's subscriber network.
Actual or potential problems discovered during the course of preventative and
routine maintenance shall be immediately reported to the commission. After
informing the commission of an actual or potential problem, the grantee shall,
within a reasonable period of time, prepare and transmit a report to the
commission describing the corrective action, if any, that was or will be taken.
         b.   Within ten (10) minutes of receiving notice or otherwise learning
of a maintenance or repair problem, the grantee's technicians shall begin
actively working on the problem. The grantee shall work on the problem
continuously until it is resolved. Notwithstanding the above, the grantee shall
meet the network availability standard described in section
13-1-19, exhibit D, of this chapter for each site on the I-Net.
   I.   Institutional Network Ownership: The I-Net is a dedicated transmission
path owned and maintained by the grantee and governed by this agreement. The
obligations for provision of the I-Net will convey to all successors and
assigns. If at any time, the I-Net is considered abandoned as such is defined
in this franchise, ownership shall convey to the city at the city's discretion.
The city and the sites to which infrastructure is provided via the I-Net will
use the I-Net in accordance with the limitations of this franchise. (Ord. 353,
2-15-2000)
13-1-12: OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Delegated Authority: The city may delegate to any other body or person
authority to administer the franchise and to monitor the performance of grantee
pursuant to the franchise. Grantee shall cooperate with any such delegates of
the city.
   B.   Administration Of Franchise: The commission or any designee thereof
shall have continuing regulatory jurisdiction and supervision over the system
and grantee's operation under the franchise. The commission, or its designee,
may issue such reasonable rules and regulations concerning the construction,
operation and maintenance of the system as are consistent with the provisions
of the franchise and applicable law.
   C.   Franchise Fee:
      1.   During the term of the franchise, grantee shall pay quarterly to the
city or its delegates a franchise fee in an amount equal to five percent (5%)
of its quarterly gross revenues.
      2.   Any payments due under this provision shall be payable quarterly.
The payments shall be made on April 30 (first quarter) July 31 (second quarter)
October 31 (third quarter) and January 31 (fourth quarter), together with a
report showing the basis for the computation in form and substance
substantially the same as section
13-1-19, exhibit E, of this chapter.
      3.   All amounts paid shall be subject to audit and recomputation by the
city, and acceptance of any payment shall not be construed as an accord that
the amount paid is in fact the correct amount.
   D.   Not Franchise Fees:
      1.   Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the franchise fees payable by
grantee to the city pursuant to this section shall take precedence over all
other payments, contributions, services, equipment, facilities, support,
resources or other activities to be provided or performed by grantee pursuant
to this franchise and that the franchise fees provided for in this section
shall not be deemed to be in the nature of a tax, and shall be in addition to
any and all taxes of general applicability and other fees and charges which do
not fall within the definition of a franchise fee under 47 USC section 542.
      2.   Grantee shall not apply or seek to apply or make any claim that all
or any part of the franchise fees or other payments or contributions to be made
by grantee to the city pursuant to this franchise shall be deducted from or
credited or offset against any taxes, fees or assessments or general
applicability levied or imposed by the city or any other governmental
authority, including any such tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities
and cable operators or their services that does not fall within the definition
of a franchise fee under 47 USC section 542.
      3.   Grantee shall not apply or seek to apply all or any part of any
taxes, fees or assessments of general applicability levied or imposed by the
city or any other governmental authority (including any such tax, fee or
assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their services)
that do not fall within the definition of a franchise fee under 47 USC section
542 as a deduction or other credit from or against any of the franchise fees or
other payments or contributions to be paid or made by grantee to the city
pursuant to this franchise which shall be deemed to be separate and distinct
obligations of grantee.
   E.   Access To Records: The city shall have the right to inspect, upon
reasonable notice and during normal business hours, or require grantee to
provide within a reasonable time, copies of any records maintained by grantee
which relate to system operations including specifically grantee's accounting
and financial records.
   F.   Reports And Maps Filed With City:
      1.   Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the city, at the times and in
the form prescribed, such other reasonable reports with respect to grantee's
operations pursuant to this franchise as the city may require.
      2.   Subject to reasonable confidentiality protections pursuant to
subsection 13-1-17H of this chapter, grantee shall, if required by the
commission, furnish to and file with the commission maps, plats, and permanent
records of the location and character of all facilities constructed, including
underground facilities, and grantee shall file with the commission updates of
such maps, plats and permanent records annually if changes have been made in
the system.
   G.   Periodic Evaluation:
      1.   The city may require evaluation sessions at any time during the term
of this franchise, but in no event more than once per calendar year, upon
thirty (30) days' written notice to grantee.
      2.   Topics which may be discussed at any evaluation session may include,
but are not limited to, application of new technologies, system performance,
programming offered, access channels, facilities and support, municipal uses of
cable, subscriber rates, customer complaints, amendments to this franchise,
judicial rulings, FCC rulings, line extension policies and any other topics the
city deems relevant.
      3.   As a result of a periodic review or evaluation session, upon
notification from the city, grantee shall meet with the city and undertake good
faith efforts to reach agreement on changes and modifications to the terms and
conditions of the franchise which are both economically and technically
feasible. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-13: FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Performance Bond:
      1.   At the time the franchise becomes effective and at all times
thereafter, the city reserves the right to impose on grantee an obligation to
file with the commission, on behalf of all member cities, a bond in the amount
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in a form and with such sureties
as are reasonably acceptable to the commission. This bond will be conditioned
upon the faithful performance by the grantee of its franchise obligations and
upon the further condition that in the event grantee shall fail to comply with
any law, ordinance or regulation governing the franchise, there shall be
recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of the bond any
damages or loss suffered by the city as a result, including the full amount of
any compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of any
property of grantee, plus a reasonable allowance for attorney fees and costs,
up to the full amount of the bond, and further guaranteeing payment by the
grantee of claims, liens and taxes due the city which arise by reason of the
construction, operation, or maintenance of the system. The rights reserved by
the city with respect to the bond are in addition to all other rights the city
may have under the franchise or any other law. The city may, from year to year,
in its sole discretion, reduce the amount of the bond.
      2.   The time for grantee to correct any violation or liability shall be
extended by the city if the necessary action to correct such violation or
liability is, in the sole determination of the city, of such a nature or
character as to require more than thirty (30) days within which to perform,
provided grantee provides written notice that it requires more than thirty (30)
days to correct such violations or liability, commences the corrective action
within the thirty (30) day period and thereafter uses reasonable diligence to
correct the violation or liability.
      3.   In the event this franchise is revoked by reason of default of
grantee, the city shall be entitled to collect from the performance bond that
amount which is attributable to any damages sustained by the city as a result
of said default or revocation.
      4.   Grantee shall be entitled to the return of the performance bond, or
portion thereof, as remains sixty (60) days after the expiration of the term of
the franchise or revocation for default thereof, provided the city has not
notified grantee of any actual or potential damages incurred as a result of
grantee's operations pursuant to the franchise or as a result of said default.
      5.   The rights reserved to the city with respect to the performance bond
are in addition to all other rights of the city whether reserved by this
franchise or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a
right with respect to the performance bond shall affect any other right the
city may have.
   B.   Security Fund:
      1.   At the time this franchise becomes effective, grantee shall deposit
into a bank account, established by the commission on behalf of all member
cities, and maintain on deposit throughout the term of this franchise, the sum
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) as a common security fund for the
faithful performance by it of all the provisions of this franchise and all
other franchises which combine to make up the system (hereinafter "security
fund") in compliance with all orders, permits and directions, of any member
city or the commission and the payment by grantee of any claim, liens and taxes
due the city which arise by reason of the construction, operation or
maintenance of the system. Interest accrued on this deposit shall be paid to
grantee on a quarterly basis; provided, that all requirements of this section
have been complied with by grantee. Provisions shall be made to permit the
commission to withdraw funds from the security fund. Grantee shall not use the
security fund for other purposes and shall not assign, pledge, or otherwise use
the security fund as security for any purpose.
      2.   In addition to recovery of any monies owed by grantee to the city or
any person or damages to the city or any person as a result of any acts or
omissions by grantee pursuant to the franchise, the city in its sole discretion
may charge to and collect from the security fund the following penalties:
         a.   For failure to timely complete system upgrades as provided in
this franchise, unless the city approves the delay, the penalty shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure
occurs or continues.
         b.   For failure to provide data, documents, reports or information or
to cooperate with the city during an application process or system review or as
otherwise provided herein, the penalty shall be two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or
continues.
         c.   Fifteen (15) days following notice from the city of a failure of
grantee to comply with construction, operation or maintenance standards, the
penalty shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day for each day, or part
thereof, such failure occurs or continues.
         d.   For failure to provide the services grantee has proposed,
including, but not limited to, the implementation and the utilization of the
PEG access channels and the maintenance and/or replacement of the equipment and
other facilities, the penalty shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day
for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or continues.
         e.   For grantee's breach of any written contract or agreement with or
to the city or its designee, the penalty shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such breach occurs or
continues.
         f.   For failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
franchise, or other applicable laws for which a penalty is not otherwise
specifically provided pursuant to this subsection B2, the penalty shall be two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such
failure occurs or continues.
      3.   Each violation of any provision of this franchise shall be
considered a separate violation for which a separate penalty can be imposed.
      4.   Whenever the city finds that grantee has violated one or more terms,
conditions or provisions of this franchise, or for any other violation
contemplated in subsection B2 of this section, a written notice shall be given
to grantee informing it of such violation. At any time after thirty (30) days
(or such longer reasonable time which, in the sole determination of the city,
is necessary to cure the alleged violation) following local receipt of notice,
provided grantee remains in violation of one or more terms, conditions or
provisions of this franchise, in the sole opinion of the city, the city may
draw from the security fund all penalties and other monies due the city from
the date of the local receipt of notice.
      5.   Grantee may, within seven (7) days of receipt of such written
notice, notify the city in writing that there is a dispute as to whether a
violation or failure has in fact occurred. Such written notice by grantee to
the city shall specify with particularity the matters disputed by grantee. The
city shall hear grantee's dispute within sixty (60) days and render a final
decision within sixty (60) days thereafter. If grantee does not dispute the
alleged violation or upon the determination of the city that a violation has
taken place, subject to grantee's right to seek any applicable judicial review,
the city may draw from the security fund an amount to cover any failure of
grantee to pay penalties accrued but unpaid after seven (7) days' written
notice of such final determination.
      6.   If said security fund or any subsequent security fund delivered
pursuant thereto expires prior to thirty (30) months after the expiration of
the term of this franchise, it shall be renewed or replaced during the term of
this franchise to provide that it will not expire earlier than thirty (30)
months after the expiration of this franchise. The renewed or replaced security
fund shall be of the same form and with a bank authorized herein and for the
full amount stated in subsection B1 of this section.
      7.   If the city draws upon the security fund or any subsequent security
fund delivered pursuant hereto, in whole or in part, grantee shall replace or
replenish to its full amount the same within ten (10) days and shall deliver to
the city a like replacement security fund or certification of replenishment for
the full amount stated in subsection B1 of this section as a substitution of
the previous security fund. This shall be a continuing obligation for any draws
upon the security fund.
      8.   If any security fund is not so replaced or replenished, the city may
draw on said security fund for the whole amount thereof and use the proceeds as
the city determines in its sole discretion. The failure to replace or replenish
any security fund may also, at the option of the city and/or commission, be
deemed a default by grantee under this franchise. The drawing on the security
fund by the city, and use of the money so obtained for payment or performance
of the obligations, duties and responsibilities of grantee which are in
default, shall not be a waiver or release of such default.
      9.   The collection by the city of any damages, monies or penalties from
the security fund shall not affect any other right or remedy available to the
city, nor shall any act, or failure to act, by the city pursuant to the
security fund, be deemed a waiver of any right of the city pursuant to this
franchise or otherwise.
   C.   Liability Insurance:
      1.   Insurance Required; Amount:
         a.   Upon the effective date of this franchise, grantee shall, at its
sole expense, take out and maintain during the term of this franchise public
liability insurance with a company licensed to do business in the state of
Minnesota with a rating by A.M. Best & Co. of not less than "A" that shall
protect grantee, the commission, the city and the commission's and the city's
officials, officers, directors, employees and agents from claims which may
arise from operations under this franchise, whether such operations be by
grantee, its officials, officers, directors, employees and agents or any
subcontractors of grantee. This liability insurance shall include, but shall
not be limited to, protection against claims arising from bodily and personal
injury and damage to property resulting from grantee's vehicles, products and
operations. The amount of insurance for single limit coverage applying to
bodily and personal injury and property damage shall not be less than two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00). The following shall be included in the
certificate:
            (1)   The policy shall provide coverage on an occurrence basis.
            (2)   The policy shall cover personal injury as well as bodily
injury.
            (3)   Broad form property damage liability shall be afforded.
         b.   The following endorsements shall be attached to the liability
policy:
            (1)   The city shall be listed as an additional insured on the
policy.
            (2)   An endorsement shall be provided which states that the
coverage is primary insurance subject to the indemnification clause, and that
no other insurance maintained by the grantor will be called upon to contribute
to a loss under this coverage.
            (3)   Standard form of cross liability shall be afforded.
            (4)   An endorsement stating that the policy shall not be canceled
without thirty (30) days' notice of such cancellation given to the city.
      2.   Proof Of Insurance: Grantee shall submit to the city documentation
of the required insurance, including a certificate of insurance signed by the
insurance agent and companies named, as well as all properly executed
endorsements.
   D.   Indemnification:
      1.   Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city and commission,
its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees (collectively the
"indemnified parties") harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims,
causes or action, actions, liabilities, demands, damages, judgments,
settlements, disability, losses, expenses (including attorney fees and
disbursements of counsel) and costs of any nature that any of the indemnified
parties may at any time suffer, sustain or incur arising out of, based upon or
in any way connected with the grantee's operations, the exercise of the
franchise, the breach of grantee of its obligations under this franchise and/or
the activities of grantee, its subcontractors, employees and agents hereunder.
Grantee shall be solely responsible for and shall indemnify, defend and hold
the indemnified parties harmless from and against any and all matters relative
to payment of grantee's employees, including compliance with social security
and withholdings.
      2.   The indemnification obligations of grantee set forth in this
franchise are not limited in any way by the amount or type of damages or
compensation payable by or for grantee under workers' compensation, disability
or other employee benefit acts, acceptance of insurance certificates required
under this franchise or the terms, applicability or limitations of any
insurance held by grantee.
      3.   The city and/or commission does not, and shall not, waive any rights
against grantee which it may have by reason of the indemnification provided for
in this franchise because of the acceptance by the city, or the deposit with
the city by grantee, of any of the insurance policies described in this
franchise.
      4.   The indemnification of the city and commission by grantee provided
for in this franchise shall apply to all damages and claims for damages of any
kind suffered by reason of any of grantee's operations referred to in this
franchise, regardless of whether or not such insurance policies shall have been
determined to be applicable to any such damages or claims for damages.
      5.   Grantee shall not be required to indemnify the city and commission
for negligence or misconduct on the part of the city and the commission or its
officials, boards, commissions, agents, or employees, including any loss claims
related to public access channels in which the city and/or commission
participate, subject to applicable state and federal statutory limitations.
   E.   Grantee's Insurance: Grantee shall not commence any cable system
reconstruction work or permit any subcontractor to commence work until all
insurance required under this franchise has been obtained. Said insurance shall
be maintained in full force and effect until the expiration of this franchise.
(Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-14: SALE, ABANDONMENT, TRANSFER AND REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   The City's Right To Revoke:
      1.   In addition to all other rights which the city has pursuant to law
or equity, the city reserves the right to commence proceedings to revoke,
terminate or cancel this franchise, and all rights and privileges pertaining
thereto, if it is determined by the city that:
         a.   Grantee has violated material provisions of this franchise; or
         b.   Grantee has attempted to evade any of the provisions of the
franchise; or
         c.   Grantee has practiced fraud or deceit upon the city.
      2.   The city may revoke this franchise without the hearing otherwise
required herein if grantee is adjudged a bankrupt.
   B.   Procedures For Revocation:
      1.   The city and/or commission shall provide grantee with written notice
of a cause for revocation and the intent to revoke and shall allow grantee
thirty (30) days subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to correct the
violation or to provide adequate assurance of performance in compliance with
the franchise. In the notice required therein, the city and/or commission shall
provide grantee with the basis of the revocation.
      2.   Grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing affording
due process before the city council and/or commission prior to the effective
date of revocation, which public hearing shall follow the thirty (30) day
notice provided in subsection B1 of this section. The city and/or commission
shall provide grantee with written notice of its decision together with written
findings of fact supplementing said decision.
      3.   Only after the public hearing and upon written notice of the
determination by the city to revoke the franchise may grantee appeal said
decision with an appropriate state or federal court or agency.
      4.   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect unless the term thereof sooner expires or unless continuation of the
franchise would endanger the health, safety and welfare of any person or the
public.
   C.   Abandonment Of Service: Grantee may not abandon the system or any
portion thereof without having first given three (3) months' written notice to
the city and/or commission. Grantee may not abandon the system or any portion
thereof without compensating the city for damages resulting from the
abandonment, including all costs incident to removal of the system.
   D.   Removal After Abandonment, Termination Or Forfeiture:
      1.   In the event of termination or forfeiture of the franchise or
abandonment of the system, the city shall have the right to require grantee to
remove all or any portion of the system from all rights of way and public
property within the city.
      2.   If grantee has failed to commence removal of system, or such part
thereof as was designated by the city, within thirty (30) days after written
notice of the city's demand for removal is given, or if grantee has failed to
complete such removal within twelve (12) months after written notice of the
city's demand for removal is given, the city shall have the right to apply
funds secured by the security fund and performance bond toward removal and/or
declare all right, title, and interest to the system to be in the city with all
rights of ownership including, but not limited to, the right to operate the
system or transfer the system to another for operation by it.
   E.   Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise:
      1.   No sale or transfer of the franchise, or sale, transfer, or
fundamental corporate change of or in grantee, including, but not limited to, a
fundamental corporate change in grantee's parent corporation or any entity
having a controlling interest in grantee, the sale of a controlling interest in
the grantee's assets, a merger, including the merger of a subsidiary and parent
entity, consolidation, or the creation of a subsidiary or affiliate entity,
shall take place until a written request has been filed with the city
requesting approval, and such approval has been granted or deemed granted;
provided, however, that said approval shall not be required where grantee
grants a security interest in its franchise and/or assets to secure an
indebtedness. Upon notice to the commission, grantee may undertake legal
changes necessary to consolidate the corporate or partnership structures of its
Minnesota/Wisconsin systems, provided there is no change in the controlling
interests which could materially alter the financial responsibilities for the
grantee, and such changes do not otherwise trigger review under Minnesota
statutes section 238.083.
      2.   Any sale, transfer, exchange or assignment of stock in grantee, or
grantee's parent corporation or any other entity having a controlling interest
in grantee, so as to create a new controlling interest therein, shall be
subject to the requirements of this subsection. The term "controlling interest"
as used herein is not limited to majority stock ownership, but includes actual
working control in whatever manner exercised.
      3.   The grantee shall file, in addition to all documents, forms and
information required to be filed by applicable law, the following:
         a.   All contracts, agreements or other documents that constitute the
proposed transaction and all exhibits, attachments, or other documents referred
to therein which are necessary in order to understand the terms thereof
(confidential, trade, business, pricing or marketing information, or
information not otherwise publicly available may be redacted) pursuant to the
procedures for handling trade secret and privileged data to be adopted by the
commission.
         b.   A list detailing all documents filed with any state or federal
agency related to the transaction including, but not limited to, the MPUC, the
FCC, the FTC, the FEC, the SEC or MNDOT. Upon request, grantee shall provide
the city with a complete copy of any such document.
      4.   The city shall have such time as is permitted by federal law in
which to review a transfer request.
      5.   As agreed to by grantee in its previous franchise with the city,
grantee shall reimburse the city for all the legal, administrative, and
consulting costs and fees associated with the city's review of any request to
transfer. Nothing herein shall prevent grantee from negotiating partial or
complete payment of such costs and fees by the transferee. Grantee may not
itemize any such reimbursement on subscriber bills, but may recover such
expenses in its subscriber rates if permitted by applicable laws.
      6.   In no event shall a sale, transfer, corporate change, or assignment
of ownership or control pursuant to subsection E1 or E2 of this section, be
approved without the transferee becoming a signatory to this franchise and
assuming all rights and obligations thereunder, and assuming all other rights
and obligations of the transferor to the city including, but not limited to,
any adequate guarantees or other security instruments provided by the
transferor.
      7.   In the event of any proposed sale, transfer, corporate change, or
assignment pursuant to subsection E1 or E2 of this section, the city shall have
the right to purchase the system for the value of the consideration proposed in
such transaction. The city's right to purchase shall arise upon the city's
receipt of notice of the material terms of an offer or proposal for sale,
transfer, corporate change, or assignment which grantee has accepted. Notice of
such offer or proposal must be conveyed to the city in writing and be separate
from any general announcement of the transaction.
      8.   The city shall be deemed to have waived its right to purchase the
system pursuant to this section only in the following circumstances:
         a.   If the city does not indicate to grantee in writing, within sixty
(60) days of receipt of written notice of a proposed sale, transfer, corporate
change, or assignment as contemplated in subsection E7 of this section, its
intention to exercise its right of purchase; or
         b.   It approves the assignment or sale of the franchise as provided
within this section.
      9.   No franchise may be transferred if the city determines grantee is in
noncompliance with the franchise unless an acceptable compliance program has
been approved by the city. The approval of any transfer of ownership pursuant
to this section shall not be deemed to waive any rights of the city to
subsequently enforce noncompliance issues relating to this franchise even if
such issues predated the approval, whether known or unknown to the city. (Ord.
353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-15: PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices Prohibited: Grantee shall not deny service,
deny access, or otherwise discriminate against subscribers or general citizens
on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, status as to
public assistance, or disability. Grantee shall comply at all times with all
other applicable federal, state, and city laws, and all executive and
administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination.
   B.   Subscriber Privacy: Grantee shall, at all times, comply with applicable
laws regarding subscriber privacy, including, but not limited to, 47 USC
section 551. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-16: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Connections Or Modifications Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any firm, person, group, company, corporation, or governmental
body or agency, without the express consent of the grantee, to make or possess,
or assist anybody in making or possessing, any unauthorized connection,
extension, or division, whether physically, acoustically, inductively,
electronically or otherwise, with or to any segment of the system or receive
services of the system without grantee's authorization.
   B.   Removal Or Destruction Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any firm,
person, group, company, or corporation to wilfully interfere, tamper, remove,
obstruct, or damage, or assist thereof, any part or segment of the system for
any purpose whatsoever, except for any rights the city and commission may have
pursuant to this franchise or its police powers.
   C.   Penalty: Any firm, person, group, company, or corporation found guilty
of violating this section may be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00)
and the costs of the action nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
the costs of the action for each and every subsequent offense. Each continuing
day of the violation shall be considered a separate occurrence. (Ord. 353, 2-
15-2000)
13-1-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Franchise Renewal: Any renewal of this franchise shall be performed in
accordance with applicable law. The term of any renewed franchise shall be
limited to a period no longer than allowed by applicable law.
   B.   Work Performed By Others: All applicable obligations of this franchise
shall apply to any subcontractor or others performing any work or services
pursuant to the provisions of this franchise. However, in no event shall any
such subcontractor or other performing work obtain any rights to maintain and
operate a system or provide cable service. Grantee shall provide notice to the
city of the name and address of any entity, other than grantee, which performs
substantial services pursuant to this franchise.
   C.   Amendment Of Franchise: Grantee and the city may mutually agree, from
time to time, to amend this franchise. Such written amendments may be made
subsequent to a review session pursuant to subsection 13-1-12G of this chapter
or at any other time if the city and grantee agree that such an amendment will
be in the public interest or if such an amendment is required due to changes in
federal, state or local laws; provided, however, nothing herein shall restrict
the city's exercise of its police powers.
   D.   Compliance With Federal, State And Local Laws:
      1.   The terms of this franchise shall govern grantee's performance under
this franchise except where federal or state laws or regulations preempt such
local regulation. In such cases the applicable federal or state laws or
regulations shall govern grantee's performance under this franchise.
      2.   If any federal or state law or regulation shall require or permit
the city or grantee to perform any service or act or shall prohibit the city or
grantee from performing any service or act which may be in conflict with the
terms of this franchise, then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof,
either party shall notify the other of the point in conflict believed to exist
between such law or regulation. Grantee and the city shall conform to state
laws and rules regarding cable communications not later than one year after
they become effective, unless otherwise stated, and to conform to federal laws
and regulations regarding cable as they become effective.
      3.   If the commission and grantee do not agree that a material provision
of this franchise is affected by such federal or state law or regulation, then
either the commission or grantee shall have the right to seek review of the
provision in question as permitted by applicable laws.
      4.   If any term, condition or provision of this franchise or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held
to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder hereof and the application of
such term, condition or provision to persons or circumstances, other than those
as to whom it shall be held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected
thereby, and this franchise and all the terms, provisions and conditions hereof
shall, in all other respects, continue to be effective and complied with,
provided the loss of the invalid or unenforceable clause does not substantially
alter the agreement between the parties. In the event such law, rule or
regulation is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so
that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with the law, rules and regulations then in effect, said provision
shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall thereafter be binding
on grantee and the city.
   E.   Nonenforcement By City: Grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligations to comply with any of the provisions of this franchise by reason of
any failure or delay of the city to enforce prompt compliance. The city may
only waive its rights hereunder by expressly so stating in writing. Any such
written waiver by the city of a breach or violation of any provision of this
franchise shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of any subsequent
breach or violation.
   F.   Rights Cumulative: All rights and remedies given to the city by this
franchise or retained by the city herein shall be in addition to and cumulative
with any and all other rights and remedies, existing or implied, now or
hereafter available to the city, at law or in equity, and such rights and
remedies shall not be exclusive, but each and every right and remedy
specifically given by this franchise or otherwise existing or given may be
exercised from time to time and as often and in such order as may be deemed
expedient by the city, and the exercise of one or more rights or remedies shall
not be deemed a waiver of the right to exercise at the same time or thereafter
any other right or remedy.
   G.   Grantee Acknowledgment Of Validity Of Franchise:
      1.   Grantee acknowledges that it has had an opportunity to review the
terms and conditions of this franchise and that under current law grantee
believes that said terms and conditions are not unreasonable or arbitrary, and
that grantee believes the city has the power to make the terms and conditions
contained in this franchise. Except as provided in subsection D of this
section, grantee agrees that it will not, at any time, set up against the city
or commission in any claim or proceeding, any condition or term of the
franchise as unreasonable, arbitrary, void as of the effective date of this
franchise or that the city or commission had no power or authority to make such
term or condition.
      2.   In the case of any dispute or question as to the meaning,
interpretation, or application of any term, provision, or condition of this
franchise, the city, in its reasonable discretion, shall promptly resolve such
dispute or question.
   H.   Confidential And Trade Secret Information: The commission shall adopt
and follow, consistent with and permitted by applicable laws, procedures for
protecting any confidential and trade secret information of grantee that may be
provided to the commission in conformance with the requirements of this
franchise. If required under this franchise, such confidential or trade secret
information shall be provided to the city if the city adopts similar procedures
for protecting confidential and trade secret information. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-18: EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Publication, Effective Date: This franchise shall be published in
accordance with applicable local and Minnesota law. The effective date of this
franchise shall be the date of acceptance by grantee in accordance with the
provisions of subsection B of this section.
   B.   Acceptance:
      1.   Grantee shall accept this franchise within thirty (30) days of its
enactment by the city council, unless the time for acceptance is extended by
the city. Such acceptance by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of this
franchise for all purposes; provided, however, this franchise shall not be
effective until all city ordinance adoption procedures are complied with and
all applicable time lines have run for the adoption of a city ordinance. In the
event acceptance does not take place, or should all ordinance adoption
procedures and time lines not be completed, this franchise and any and all
rights granted hereunder to grantee shall be null and void.
      2.   Upon acceptance of this franchise, grantee and the city shall be
bound by all the terms and conditions contained herein.
      3.   Grantee shall accept this franchise in the following manner:
         a.   This franchise will be properly executed and acknowledged by
grantee and delivered to the city.
         b.   With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any grant
payments, performance bond and insurance certificates, and guaranties, as
required herein, that have not previously been delivered. (Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
13-1-19: EXHIBITS:
(See following pages for exhibits)
   EXHIBIT A
   OWNERSHIP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f7244677a8bd3f2c3d215f46aefbb8ecf949d518/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1424.gif]
 
MediaOne of St. Paul, Inc., is a wholly owned subsidiary of MediaOne Group,
Inc., as follows:
   EXHIBIT B
   GRANTEE COMMITMENT TO PEG ACCESS
   FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
      1.      PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENT (PEG) ACCESS CHANNELS
Grantee shall continue to make seven (7) analog video Channels available
exclusively for noncommercial PEG use ("PEG Channels") as currently provided by
Grantee. The PEG Channels shall be dedicated for PEG use for the term of the
Franchise. City shall establish rules and procedures for such scheduling in
accordance with Section 611 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 531).
Grantee shall configure the Cable System to allow PEG programming to be
discretely distributed (Narrowcast) to individual Member Municipalities via
designated node sites. City and Grantee acknowledged that programming cannot be
discretely distributed to one hundred percent (100%) of the City due to the
location of particular node sites.
City may not request additional channel capacity beyond the seven (7) Channels
for PEG use except in accordance with applicable State laws. City shall be
responsible for all programming requirements, including but not limited to
scheduling, playback, training, staffing, copyright clearances, and equipment,
maintenance and repair, on the PEG channels.
Grantee shall also designate the standard VHF channel 6 for uniform regional
channel usage currently provided by "Metro Channel 6" to the extent and under
the terms required by Minn. Stat. § 238.43.
      2.      PEG OPERATIONS
City may, in its sole discretion, negotiate agreements with neighboring
jurisdictions served by the same Cable System, educational institutions or
others to share the expenses of supporting the PEG Channels.
      3.      TITLE TO PEG EQUIPMENT
City shall retain title to all PEG equipment and facilities purchased or
otherwise acquired by City.
      4.      RELOCATION OF PEG CHANNELS
City and Grantee agree to relocate the channel position of the PEG access
channels at the time that the System is cut over to Grantee's master headend in
Roseville. Thereafter, Grantee shall not relocate any PEG access Channel to a
different Channel number unless specifically required by Applicable Laws or
unless otherwise agreed to in writing by City. Grantee shall provide at least
sixty (60) days prior written notice of such relocation to Subscribers and the
Commission, and Grantee shall reimburse the Commission for reasonable costs
caused by such relocation, including (1) logo, business card or signage
changes, (2) equipment modifications necessary to effect the change at the
programmer's production or receiving facility, or (3) reasonable constituency
notification costs.
      5.      PROMOTION OF PEG ACCESS
To the extent permitted by Grantee's billing process, Grantee shall allow
Commission to place bill stuffers in Grantee's Subscriber statements at a cost
to Commission not to exceed Grantee's cost, no less frequently than twice per
year upon the written request of Commission and at such times that the
placement of such materials would not materially and adversely effect Grantee's
cost for the production and mailing of such statements. Commission agrees to
pay Grantee in advance for the actual cost of such bill stuffers. Grantee shall
also make available PEG access information provided by Commission in Subscriber
packets at the time of Installation and at the counter in the System's business
office serving the Service Area. Grantee shall also distribute, at no charge to
Commission, through advertising insertion equipment, thirty (30) second
promotional and awareness commercial spots, on a "run of schedule" basis in
unsold time slots, produced at Commission's cost and submitted by Commission
once each month in a format compatible with such advertising insertion
equipment. Grantee shall also include a listing of the known programming to be
cablecast on PEG access Channels in or on any electronic program guide of
services for the Cable System, if technically and economically reasonable.
      6.      PEG SUPPORT.
In addition to satisfying the other requirements of this Franchise, Grantee is
required to provide the following additional PEG use funding to the Commission:
Grantee will provide the following periodic capital grants for PEG access, in
1999 dollars.
         a.   Thirty (30) days after the effective date of the Franchise:
$250,000.
         b.   On each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the
effective date of the Franchise: $250,000.
         c.   On the second anniversary of the effective date of the Franchise:
an additional $100,000.
         d.   On the seventh anniversary of the effective date of the
Franchise: $200,000.
         e.   On the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Franchise:
$200,000.
In addition to the PEG fee associated with the recovery of the capital grants
provided above, which may be recovered by Grantee over the term of the
Franchise and may include any applicable FCC return on investment, Grantee
shall collect payment of an eighty-three cent ($.83) per month per subscriber
local programming support fee ("PEG fee") starting on April 1, 2000 and
continuing throughout the term of the Franchise to be used by the Commission in
support of PEG access. Payments pursuant to this subsection shall be payable
quarterly on the same schedule as Franchise fee payments. The $.83 PEG fee may
be unilaterally increased no more than once each calendar year in the
Commission's sole discretion, upon sixty (60) days advance written notice to
Grantee, annually compounded from the effective date of this Franchise, based
on the increase from the Minneapolis/St. Paul Consumer Price Index for all
consumers and/or three percent (3%) each year, whichever is lower.
      7.      TECHNICAL SUPPORT
         a.   Throughout the Franchise term, playback from the PEG access
Channels must be configured so that the Commission or its designated entity is
able to use their own independent automated playback facilities, located at the
premises of its choice. Any master control that Grantee intends to use for its
operations must be located outside the space occupied by a designated entity,
unless the parties agree otherwise. The playback facility must be configured so
as to permit the designated entity to program all Channels for which it is
responsible for playback, on a live or taped basis. Grantee shall continue to
have access to the designated entity's master control so that it can conduct
necessary maintenance and repair affecting Grantee's network or equipment upon
reasonable notice or at any time in the event emergencies, at no cost to City
or Commission.
         b.   Grantee shall provide, at no cost to Commission, six (6) live
feeds per year from the Commission's offices to the offices of Regional Channel
6. Such feeds shall connect directly to Regional Channel 6 master control
should Grantee have access to and connectivity with the Regional Channel 6
Master Control. Grantee shall also provide, at no cost to Commission, live
feeds for PEG access and local origination programming from any location in the
Commission's Franchise area that is passed by the proposed Institutional
Network. The Commission shall provide a minimum of seventy-two (72) hours
advance notice to Grantee of the need for such live feeds and shall endeavor to
provide a minimum seven days advance notice when possible. Grantee shall, upon
two (2) weeks prior notice by Commission, work with Commission to accommodate
one time programming via live feeds from areas not passed by the Institutional
Network. Such live feeds shall be under Grantee's direct supervision and on a
frequency designated by Grantee.
         c.   Grantee shall also feed the local origination and PEG Channels
provided in the City of St. Paul into the Commission's master control for
potential simulcasting on the PEG Channels required pursuant to this Franchise.
Determination regarding the simulcasting of such PEG access and local
origination signals from St. Paul shall be in the sole discretion of the
Commission. Grantee shall also maintain its practice of providing regular
satellite feeds from Grantee's headend facility and/or hub site locations to be
fed directly to the Commission's master control facility. At a minimum, Grantee
shall provide six (6) such satellite feeds as was Grantee's current practice
under its prior Franchise with City.
         d.   Grantee shall provide twenty-six (26) live feeds, free of charge,
except for the cost of the equipment necessary to provide such feeds, which
shall be the Commission's responsibility, each year from Grantee's headend
facility (presently located in Roseville) to and from, other cable systems
operated by Grantee to allow for the sharing of local programming such as high
school sports and/or other programs with shared audiences.
         e.   Grantee shall provide, free of charge, cable modem service to the
Commission's facility for one (1) computer.
         f.   Grantee shall continue to provide free fiber optic links,
including internal wiring to drop points and current optronics, to the West St.
Paul City Hall, South St. Paul City Hall, Inver Grove Heights City Hall,
Mendota Heights City Hall, as well as to the Commission's facility. These fiber
optic connections will permit the above-referenced Member Municipalities to
cablecast live governmental meetings on the PEG channels, free of charge.
         g.   Grantee and City agree that the PEG fee referenced in this
Exhibit B will not be deemed to be "franchise fees" within the meaning of
Section 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and such obligations shall not
be deemed to be (i) "payments in kind" or any involuntary payments chargeable
against the Franchise Fees to be paid to the City by Grantee pursuant to
Section 8 hereof or (ii) part of the Franchise Fees to be paid to City by
Grantee pursuant to Section 8 hereof.
      8.      INTERCONNECTION
         a.   Grantee shall, at the Commission's request, interconnect its
System to other commonly owned, adjacent Systems located in the Minneapolis/St.
Paul metropolitan area. Interconnection shall be completed within a reasonable
timeframe mutually agreed upon by the Commission and Grantee, unless an
extension is granted upon petition by Grantee.
         b.   Grantee shall, at the Commission's request, interconnect its
System to adjacent Cable Systems in the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area
that are not commonly owned or controlled by Grantee or its Affiliates. Except
as otherwise provided herein, interconnection shall be completed within a
reasonable timeframe mutually agreed upon by the Commission and Grantee, unless
an extension is granted upon petition by Grantee. The cost of establishing an
interconnection link to the border of the adjacent jurisdiction shall be borne
by Grantee. As to the actual costs of physical interconnection at the border,
the Grantee shall bear no more than fifty percent (50%) of such costs, unless
the parties agree otherwise. Grantee will obtain relief from this
interconnection requirement where: (i) it shows to the satisfaction of the
Commission that interconnection is technically infeasible to perform, and (ii)
it proposes a reasonable alternative, in light of the purposes to be served by
the interconnection. Alternatively, Grantee will obtain relief from this
interconnection requirement if it's unable to reach an agreement with the
designated adjacent System, after a good faith effort to reach an agreement,
provided that Grantee provides the Commission with the proposed agreement and
explains the reason(s) why the parties have been unable to reach agreement.
         c.   Grantee shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority, or state or federal agency which may be
hereafter established for the purpose of regulating, facilitating, financing or
otherwise providing for the interconnection of cable systems beyond the
boundaries of City.
   EXHIBIT B-1
   SERVICE TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BUILDINGS
Dakota County
IN NDC SYSTEM
Inver Glen Library                Northern Service Center
8098 Blaine Avenue                (under construction)
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076     5 West Mendota Road
                                  West St. Paul, MN 55118
Wentworth Library
199 East Wentworth Avenue          
West St. Paul, MN 55118
ISD #199
Inver Grove Elementary School     Pine Bend Elementary School
4100 East 66th Street             9875 Inver Grove Trail
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076     Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Hilltop Elementary School         South Grove Elementary School
3201 East 68th Street             7650 Clayton Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076     Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Salem Hills Elementary School
5899 East Babcock Trail            
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
ALL IN ONE COMPLEX
Inver Grove Middle School         Simley Senior High School
8167 Cahill Avenue East           2920 East 80th Street
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076     Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
ISD #199 District Office
2990 80th Street East              
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Inver Grove Heights
Inver Grove Heights City Hall     Inver Grove Heights Police
8150 Barbara Avenue               Department
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077     8150 Barbara Avenue
                                  Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077
IGH Fire Department               IGH Fire Department
2059 Upper 55th Street E          7015 Clayton Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077     Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
ISD #197
Henry Sibley High School          Friendly Hills Middle School
1897 Delaware Avenue              701 Mendota Heights Road
Mendota Heights, MN 55118         Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Heritage Middle School            Somerset Elementary School
121 West Butler Avenue            1355 Dodd Road
West St. Paul, MN 55118           Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Mendota Heights Elementary School Moreland Elementary School
1979 Summit Lane                  217 West Moreland Avenue
Mendota Heights, MN 55118         West St. Paul, MN 55118
Garlough Elementary School
1740 Charlton Street               
West St. Paul, MN 55118
West St. Paul
West St. Paul City Hall
1616 Humboldt Avenue               
West St. Paul, MN 55118
South St. Paul
South St. Paul City Hall          South St. Paul Public Library
125 3rd Avenue                    106 3rd Avenue N.
South St. Paul, MN 55075          South St. Paul, MN 55075
                                  South St. Paul Municipal
                                  Airport (Fleming Field)
Wakota Arena (School)             520 Airport Road
141 East 6th Street               South St. Paul, MN 55075
South St. Paul, MN 55075          (shall be considered a subsequently
                                  designated building pursuant to subsection
                                  13-1-10B of this Franchise)
Lilydale
Lilydale City Hall
855 Sibley Memorial Hwy            
Lilydale, MN 555118
Sunfish Lake
Sites to be determined             
Mendota
Sites to be determined             
Mendota Heights
Mendota Heights City Hall         Mendota Heights Police
1101 Victoria Curve               Department
Mendota Heights, MN 55118         1101 Victoria Curve
                                  Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Mendota Heights Fire Department
2121 Dodd Road                     
Mendota Heights, MN 55120
South St. Paul Schools
South St. Paul High School        Lincoln Center
700 2nd St. N.                    357 9th Ave. N.
South St. Paul, MN 55075          South St. Paul, MN 55075
District Office                   Kaposia Education Center
104 5th Ave. So.                  1225 1st Ave. So.
South St. Paul, MN 55075          South St. Paul, MN 55075
ECFE                              ALC
1549 5th Ave. So.                 151 6th St. E.
South St. Paul, MN 55075          South St. Paul, MN 55075
Private Schools
Convent of the Visitation School  Emanuel Lutheran School
2455 Visitation Drive             115 Crusader Avenue
Mendota Heights, MN 55120         West St. Paul, MN 55118
St. Croix Lutheran High School    St. John Vianney School
1200 Oakdale Avenue               1815 Bromley Street
West St. Paul, MN 55118           South St. Paul, MN 55075
St. Joseph's School               St. Michael's School
1138 Seminole Avenue              335 E. Hurley Street
West St. Paul, MN 55118           West St. Paul, MN 55118
St. Thomas Academy                Holy Trinity School
949 Mendota Heights Road          745 6th Avenue S.
Mendota Heights, MN 55120         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Colleges
Inver Hills Community College
2500 East 80th Street              
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
 
   EXHIBIT C
   DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM
      1.      The Cable System shall be designed, constructed, routinely
inspected, and maintained to guarantee that the Cable System meets or exceeds
the requirements of the most current editions of the National Electrical Code
(NFRA 70) and the National Electrical Safety Code (ANSI C2). In all matters
requiring interpretation of either of these codes, the City's interpretation
shall control over all other sources and interpretations.
      2.      General Requirements. Grantee shall use equipment used in high-
quality, reliable, modern Cable Systems of similar design.
      3.      General Description. The Cable System shall provide Subscribers
with a technically advanced and reliable Cable System. The System shall have at
least 750 MHz of bandwidth capacity, capable of delivering approximately 80
analog channels of programming. The System will be two-way active, and it will
be designed to have capability to transmit return signals upstream in the 5-40
MHz spectrum. The design will provide the benefits of proven 80-channel
electronics while positioning the System for expansion of bandwidth and channel
capacity as technology and future services develop.
      4.      Design. The design of the System shall be based upon a "Fiber to
the node" architecture that will deliver the signals by fiber optics directly
to each neighborhood. Grantee's initial design includes a minimum of six (6)
fibers to each node site having a neighborhood group average of approximately
five hundred (500) homes. If Grantee splits nodes into smaller sizes, fewer
fibers will extend to such smaller nodes. There shall be no more than seven (7)
active amplifiers in a cascade from each node to the residential dwelling. The
incorporation of stand-by power supplies, strategically placed throughout the
system including all hubs, will further reduce the likelihood of service
interruptions.
      5.      Technical Standards. The System shall meet or exceed FCC
requirements. In no event shall the System fall below the following standards:
         a.   The System shall be capable of meeting the following distortion
parameters:
      1.   Carrier to RMS Noise         48 dB
      2.   Carrier to Second Order         53 dB
      3.   Carrier to Cross Modulation      51 dB
      4.   Carrier to Composite Triple Beat      53 dB
         b.   The frequency response of a single channel as measured across any
6 MHz analog channel shall not exceed +/-2 dB.
         c.   The frequency response of the entire passband shall not exceed N/
10+ 2 dB for the entire System where N is the number of amplifiers in cascade.
         d.   The System shall be designed such that at a minimum all technical
specifications of this Franchise Agreement are met.
         e.   The System shall be designed such that no noticeable degradation
in signal quality will appear at the Subscriber terminal.
   EXHIBIT D
   MINIMUM I-Net PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Signal Quality
The Institutional Network shall achieve the performance standards listed below,
where applicable for fiber and/or fiber/HFC-based transmissions, under worst-
case conditions for communications occurring between:
•    Any institution to any institution
•    Any institution to hub or headend and vice versa
•    Any institution to any subscriber and vice versa
For Institutional Communications Incorporating HFC Infrastructure
•    Noise and Distortion Performance - Under worst-case channel loading
(including both analog and digital signals), the combined upstream and
downstream performance of the system shall meet or exceed the following:
- Carrier to noise ratio = 45 dB or better
- Carrier to composite triple beat = 55 dB or better
- Carrier to second order distortion = 55 dB or
better
- Carrier to cross modulation = 55 dB or better
•    Data Communications - For any data communications link on the network, the
Network shall provide the capability for a Bit Error Rate (BER) to be equal to
or better than 1 x 10 to the minus 9, except where the link is 50% or more
coaxial cable, the BER shall be equal to or better than 1 x 10 to the minus 8.
This standard shall be met or exceeded under Normal Operating Conditions.
Outage times shall not be considered for purposes of determining compliance
with the BER prescribed in this paragraph.
•    Network Availability - For each user of services on the network, network
availability shall be equal to or better than 99.965% (no more than 184 minutes
of network downtime per user) as measured on an annual basis.
•    Signal Level Variation - The worst-case signal level variation (peak to
valley) shall be better than or equal to N/10 + 2 (where "N" equals the number
of RF amplifiers in cascade from the HFC node).
For End-to-End Fiber-Based Institutional Communications
•    Optical System Noise Performance - Under worst-case link loss as measured
for any voice, video or data service, the combined upstream and downstream
performance of the system shall meet or exceed the following:
- Signal to noise equals 60 dB or better for links that utilize Grantee
supplied equipment. For all other links, the network shall be capable of
providing a signal to noise of 60 dB or better, dependent upon end-user
equipment.
•    Optical Received Power Level at the Institution - For all links that
utilize Grantee-supplied equipment, the optical power level for any service
delivered to the designated demarcation point at each I-Net user location shall
meet or be better than 0 dBm and shall, in all cases, enable operation within
the equipment manufacturer's minimum specifications. For all other links on the
network, I-Net users shall be able to satisfactorily employ non-custom network
transmission and reception equipment, and the I-Net shall enable operation
within the manufacturer's minimum specifications for such equipment.
•    Network Availability - For each user on the network, network availability
on the backbone or for fully redundant, diverse path connections from hubs to
user sites, shall be equal to or better than 99.99% (no more than 53 minutes of
network downtime per user) as measured on an annual basis. For each user on the
network, network availability for standard connections from the hub to the user
site shall be equal to or better than 99.965% (no more than 184 minutes of
network downtime per user) as measured on annual basis.
For purposes of this Exhibit D, the network shall be defined as "unavailable"
under the standards herein for any given user when such user:
   a. Cannot, because of a network problem, measured by SNMP software or other
appropriate software and associated hardware, or through a failure of a
Grantee-provided interconnect, transmit video, voice and/or data communications
to, from, and/or on the network. Such problems shall be the result of a failure
of one or more of the following: 1) the fiber optic cabling, connections and
transmission equipment on the network and/or the coaxial cabling, connections
and RF transmission equipment on the network; 2) the transmission equipment at
Grantee's headend; 3) the transmission and network equipment at the customer's
premises (if such equipment is provided by Grantee); 4) network powering
systems; 5) the network equipment, connections and cabling, network management,
hardware and software, and related equipment provided by Grantee at Grantee's
headend; and/or 6) any other Grantee-provided transmission or network
component; and or,
   b. Experiences, due to a network problem, video, voice and data
transmissions that are below the standards set forth in this Franchise and/or
this Exhibit; and/or,
   c. Experiences, due to a network problem, a data communication packet loss
of greater than ten percent (10%).
For purposes of this availability standard, network problems shall not be
defined as: infrequent scheduled preventative maintenance as long as I-Net
users are notified well in advance, according to the provisions of the
Franchise. Except as otherwise provided for herein, network availability is
subject to the force majeure provisions of the Franchise and those conditions
which are not within the control of the Grantee.
Network downtime shall include, but not be limited to, network failures caused
by: third party actions; commercial power outages of a typical, non-
catastrophic nature; and power failures and other disturbances caused by
weather occurrences typical to the Twin Cities area. Grantee shall comply with
the requirements of Demand Maintenance/Service and Repair to restore service
following any of these occurrences. Grantee will give the City, the Commission
and affected I-Net users notice in the event of any of the foregoing
occurrences.
•    Data Communications - For any data communications link on the network, the
Bit Error Rate (BER) shall be equal to or better than 1 x 10 to the minus 9.
This standard shall be met or exceeded under Normal Operating Conditions.
Outage times shall not be considered for purposes of determining compliance
with the BER prescribed in this paragraph.
Service Response
Network Maintenance - Grantee shall be responsible for the ongoing maintenance
and performance of the I-Net from the demarcation point within a facility
through the network, including the I-Net headend. Routine and preventive
maintenance shall be performed continually on the network to ensure that it
meets all performance criteria detailed herein.
Specific Performance Oversight Responsibilities of the Grantee will include:
            (1)   Monitoring the operation of the fiber based transport
backbone in conjunction with I-Net users;
            (2)   Performance and fault monitoring of the transport backbone
and distribution system in accordance with same terms and conditions referenced
in subsection 13-1-11A3 of this Franchise;
            (3)   Monitoring of selected parameters and tables to allow for
early identification of potential service problems;
            (4)   Monitoring and analyzing I-Net performance; and
            (5)   Logging and reporting, as required, of data gathered from
above monitoring activities.
Preventive Maintenance/Service Interruptions - I-Net users will be notified at
least seven days in advance of any scheduled maintenance that may interrupt
service on the I-Net, unless I-Net users agree to waive such time frame. Where
possible, such maintenance will be scheduled at times of low usage.
Demand Maintenance/Service and Repair - Response to all network problems shall
occur at all hours (24 x 365). Specifically, when Grantee receives a trouble
call or alarm, either by internal monitoring or by City, Commission or user
personnel, the Grantee's Network Operations Center will ensure that appropriate
technical support shall respond within 10 minutes after receiving a call
related to a network problem (under Normal Operating Conditions the initial
page to the technician on call for I-Net problems will be within the 10 minute
time frame). The Grantee shall then work continuously until the problem is
resolved.
Network Support - Grantee shall provide an appropriate complement of
administrative, headend and field personnel at all times to meet the
performance criteria detailed herein.
Service Call Processing and Tracking - Grantee will establish mechanisms and
procedures for all I-Net users to quickly and easily report System problems.
All trouble or service calls will be documented, processed, and completed in an
expedient manner.
Documentation will include monthly I-Net service call reports, as required,
which will include a breakdown of reasons and resolutions as well as call
handling efficiency. Notwithstanding the staffing, testing and equipment and
response requirements set forth herein, the Grantee will provide the in-house
and/or contractor staff, spare and back-up equipment, test and maintenance
equipment and additional steps necessary to ensure that the network performs
reliably in accordance with all standards detailed herein.
Network Performance Testing
Proof of Performance - Proof of performance testing will be conducted on the I-
Net two (2) times per year at the same time residential subscriber system
testing is performed during the months of January/February and July/August.
Several geographically diverse I-Net test point locations for each ring and an
additional test point per node will be established which are representative of
worst-case performance for the area. Testing shall be completed at the mutually
agreed upon entry demarcation point at the institution. All active channels
upstream and downstream shall be tested at each test point location. If the
testing will subject such channels to service interruptions, Grantee will work
with Users to schedule the testing so as to minimize its impact upon the Users.
Testing shall be performed to ensure compliance with all the network
performance specifications included in this Appendix and applicable Service
Agreements. Tests shall be performed using standard test methodologies, as
mutually agreed to by the City, the Commission and Grantee.
Power Supply Inspections - All network power supplies and back-up devices will
be continuously status monitored and manually inspected at least twice per
year, which will include the following checks and tests:
•    Full load transfer and runtime test
•    Battery condition and maintenance check, including replacement if required
•    Status monitoring functional test
I-Net User Location Performance Testing - All network performance
specifications shall be met at each I-Net user location, and the network shall
at all times enable I-Net user video, voice and data communications to be
successfully transmitted in accordance with the reliability and availability
standards incorporated herein. Grantee shall schedule with each user such
testing as required to ensure successful network performance at each I-Net user
location.
Physical Network Characteristics - The physical and electrical configuration of
the I-Net will comply with all applicable Federal, State, and Local
requirements. Inspections of all cable runs and components will be made by
Grantee during the I-Net construction process to ensure the integrity of the
network and Grantee shall keep records thereof.
Performance Documentation - All tests and checks will be documented and, upon
request, filed with the City and the Commission. At the City's or the
Commission's request, all testing processes may be conducted under the
observation of a representative from the City or the Commission.
All network performance standards herein relate to Grantee-supplied
transmission and network, facilities, infrastructure, equipment and other
components.
   EXHIBIT E
   FRANCHISE FEE PAYMENT WORKSHEET
   Revenue                  Number of   Gross   5%            YTD
   Source                   Subscribe   Reven   Franchise Fee
Basic and Satellite Service                                          
Cable Guide                                                          
Equipment Rental                                                     
High Speed Data                                                      
Installation and Service                                             
Calls
Interactive Program Guide                                            
Late Fees                                                            
Music Choice                                                         
Pay-Per-View                                                         
Premium                                                              
PEG Fee                                                              
Advertising                                                          
Shopping                                                             
Other Income                                                         
   TOTAL                                                          
 
   REVENUE SOURCES INCLUDE:
INSTALLATION & SERVICE CALLS:
 Standard Installation     Commonly occurring normal Installation
 Additional Outlet         Installation on additional sets within a customer's
                            home
 VCR                       Installation of converter to a VCR
 Reconnection of Service   Reconnection of cable to a customer's address
 A/B Switch                Separate Installation of an A/B Switch
 Relocation                Moving an outlet within a customer's home
 Non-Standard              Usually Installation of a commercial type of an
                            account
 Change of Service         Charge for upgrading or switching a premium service
 Other Service Calls       Any service calls for which customers are charged a
                            fee
BASIC AND SATELLITE SERVICE:
 Basic Service             Revenue derived from basic and satellite service
 Bulk Rates                Revenue derived from non-standard billings (i.e.,
                            apt. complex)
 Reduced Promotional Basic Revenue derived from a discounted basic and
                            satellite service
PAY-PER-VIEW:
 All Movies                Revenue derived from pay-per-view movies
 Events                    Revenue derived from special events (i.e.,
                            concerts, boxing matches, etc.)
OTHER:
 Returned Check Fees       Revenue derived by Grantee from charges on returned
                            checks
 Pre-wired Cable Purchases Revenue generated from the sale of cable to
                            individuals who pre-wire their home
 Antenna Rental            Any revenue derived from renting space on towers
 A/B Switch                Revenue generated from sale of an A/B Switch
 Late Fee                  Revenue generated from receiving a late fee
OTHER:
 DOES NOT INCLUDE:
                            Revenues from the Department of Transportation or
 Reimbursements            other government entities for mandatory relocations
                            of cable system. Revenue from employee
                            reimbursements for cash advances.
 
Verified and submitted this                      day of
                          , 2000.
By:                 
Its:                 
   EXHIBIT F
   CORPORATE GUARANTY
THIS AGREEMENT is made this         day of                      , 2000 between
Meteor Acquisition Inc. ("Guarantor"), the Northern Dakota County Cable
Communications Commission ("Franchising Authority"), and MediaOne of St. Paul,
Inc. ("Company").
   WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, the Franchising Authority by action of its governing body on
October       , 1999 adopted Resolution No.          ("Resolution") approving
the transfer of control of the cable television franchise ("Franchise") from
MediaOne Group, Inc., to AT&T Corp.; and
   WHEREAS, Guarantor is a parent of the Company; and
   WHEREAS, Guarantor has a substantial interest in the conduct of the Company
in complying with the Company's obligations under the Franchise and any and all
amendments thereof and any agreements related thereto; and
   WHEREAS, the Resolution requires the Company to furnish a guaranty to ensure
the faithful payment and performance by Company of the obligations under the
Franchise; and
   WHEREAS, the Guarantor desires to provide its unconditional guaranty that
Company will fulfill the requirements of the Resolution.
   NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing premise and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees Company's due and
punctual payment and performance of all of the debts, liabilities and
obligations contained in the Franchise ("Indebtedness").
   This Agreement, unless terminated, substituted, or canceled, as provided
herein, shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of the term of
the Franchise, except as expressly provided otherwise in the Franchise.
   Upon substitution of another Guarantor reasonably satisfactory to the
Franchising Authority or upon transfer of the Franchise to another entity not
under common control of Guarantor, this Agreement shall be terminated,
substituted, or canceled upon thirty (30) days prior written notice from
Guarantor to the Franchising Authority and the Company.
   Such termination shall not affect liability incurred or accrued under this
Agreement prior to the effective date of such termination or cancellation.
   The Guarantor will not exercise or enforce any right of contribution,
reimbursement, recourse or subrogation available to the Guarantor against the
Company or any other person liable for payment of the Indebtedness or any
collateral security therefor, unless and until all of the Indebtedness shall
have been fully paid and discharged.
   The Guarantor will pay or reimburse the Franchising Authority for all
reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney fees and legal
expenses) incurred by the Franchising Authority in connection with the
protection, defense or enforcement of this guaranty in any arbitration,
litigation or bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings.
   The Guarantor will not assert, plead or enforce against the Franchising
Authority any defense of discharge in bankruptcy of the Company, statute of
fraud, or unenforceability of the Guaranty which may be available to the
Company or any other person liable in respect to any Indebtedness, whether or
not on account of a related transaction.
   Any notices given pursuant to this Agreement shall be addressed to the
Guarantor and Company at 10 River Park Plaza, St. Paul, MN 55107, Attn: Vice
President and General Manager, and to the Franchising Authority at 5845 Blaine
Avenue, Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076, Attn: Executive Director.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, Franchising Authority, and Guarantor have
executed this Corporate Guaranty as of the day, month and year first above
written.
GUARANTOR:
METEOR ACQUISITION INC.
By:                 
Its:                 
COMPANY:
MEDIAONE OF ST. PAUL, INC.
By:                 
Its:                 
FRANCHISING AUTHORITY:
NORTHERN DAKOTA COUNTY
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
By:                 
Its:                 
   EXHIBIT G
   I-Net USER SITES
Dakota County
Within NDC System
Historical Society and Museum    Northern Service Center
130 3rd Avenue North             33 East Wentworth Avenue
South St. Paul, MN 55075         West St. Paul, MN 55118
Inver Glen Library
8098 Blaine Avenue                
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Northern Service Center          Wentworth Library
(Under construction)             199 East Wentworth Avenue
5 West Mendota Road              West St. Paul, MN 55118
West St. Paul, MN 55118
ISD #199
Inver Grove Elementary School    Pine Bend Elementary School
4100 East 66th Street            9875 Inver Grove Trail
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Hilltop Elementary School        South Grove Elementary School
3201 East 68th Street            7650 Clayton Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Salem Hills Elementary School
5899 East Babcock Trail           
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Note: one elementary (potentially Inver Grove Elementary) may be closed due to
declining enrollment.
All In One Complex
Inver Grove Middle School        Simley Senior High School
8167 Cahill Avenue East          2920 East 80th Street
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
ISD #199 District Office
2990 80th Street East             
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
City of Inver Grove Heights
Inver Grove Heights City Hall    Inver Grove Heights Police
8150 Barbara Avenue              Department
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077    8150 Barbara Avenue
                                 Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077
Community Center                 Public Works Garage
8055 Barbara Avenue              8168 Barbara Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077
IGH Fire Department              IGH Fire Department
2059 Upper 55th Street E         7015 Clayton Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Water Treatment Plant            Inver Wood Golf Course
2015 75th Street                 1850 East 70th Street
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55077
IGH Fire Station (Future)        Forrest Haven Lift Stations
Location is uncertain            5916 Blackberry Bridge Path
Along Rich Valley Blvd?          Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Or Barnes Avenue?
Storm Water Lift Station         Doffing Lift Station
8481 College Trail               6320 Doffing Avenue
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076    Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
River Road Lift Station
6901 River Road                   
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
NDC4 and NDCTV Facility
5845 Blaine Avenue                
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
ISD #197
Henry Sibley High School         Friendly Hills Middle School
1897 Delaware Avenue             701 Mendota Heights Road
Mendota Heights, MN 55118        Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Heritage Middle School           Somerset Elementary School
121 West Butler Avenue           1355 Dodd Road
West St. Paul, MN 55118          Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Mendota Heights Elementary       Moreland Elementary School
School                           217 West Moreland Avenue
1979 Summit Lane                 West St. Paul, MN 55118
Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Garlough Elementary School
1740 Charlton Street              
West St. Paul, MN 55118
Community Education              Transportation Building
1300 Mendota Heights Road        1145 Medallion Drive
Mendota Heights, MN 55118        Mendota Heights, MN 55120
ISD 197 Senior Center
217 West Moreland Avenue          
West St. Paul, MN 55118
City of West St. Paul
West St. Paul City Hall          Public Works Garage
1616 Humboldt Avenue             1645 Livingston Avenue
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
Thompson Oak Golf Course         Ice Arena
1555 Oakdale Avenue              60 West Emerson Avenue
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
West St. Paul Pool               Water Tower
92 W. Orme Street                151 E. Marie Avenue
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
Lift Station                     Lift Station
455 W. Mendota Road              1384 S. Smith Avenue
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
Lift Station                     Lift Station
485 W. Emerson Avenue            355 E. Emerson Avenue
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
Lift Station                     Lift Station
1916 Oakdale Avenue              15 W. Mendota Road
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
Senior Center (Future)/Community Center (Future)
Possible location at Heritage School
OR in park property Butler and Hwy 52 (joint county/city project)
City of Mendota Heights
Mendota Heights City Hall        Mendota Heights Police Department
1101 Victoria Curve              1101 Victoria Curve
Mendota Heights, MN 55118        Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Mendota Heights Fire Department  Public Works Garage
2121 Dodd Road                   2431 South Lexington
Mendota Heights, MN 55120        Mendota Heights, MN 55120
Lift Station                     Lift Station
1180 Centre Point Boulevard      1237 Culligan Lane
Mendota Heights, MN 55120        Mendota Heights, MN 55120
Lift Station                     Lift Station
987 Mendota Heights Road         1357 Mendota Heights Road
Mendota Heights, MN 55120        Mendota Heights, MN 55118
Lift Station                     Lift Station
1444 Northland Drive             1159 Veronica Lane
Mendota Heights, MN 55118        Mendota Heights, MN 55118
City of South St. Paul
South St. Paul City Hall         South St. Paul Public Library
125 3rd Avenue                   106 3rd Avenue N.
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Wakota Arena                     Fleming Field Airport
141 East 6th Street              520 Airport Road
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Municipal Service Center         Lift Station
400 E. Richmond                  1030 Concord St. No.
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Lift Station
291 Grand Avenue East             
South St. Paul, MN 55075
City of Lilydale
Lilydale City Hall               Lexington Riverside Condominium
855 Sibley Memorial Hwy          1101 Sibley Memorial Hwy
Lilydale, MN 55118               Lilydale, MN 55118
Lift Station
1801 Lilydale                     
Lilydale, MN 55118
City of Sunfish Lake
Future splice-in along Hwy. 110
Current location is St. Anne's Church
South West Corner of Charlton St. & Hwy. 110
Sunfish Lake, MN
City of Mendota
Future splice-in along Hwy. 13
Current location is VFW on Highway 13 in Mendota
South St. Paul Schools (District 6)
South St. Paul High School       Kid Connections
700 2nd St. N.                   1549 5th Avenue South
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
District Office                  ECFE
104 5th Ave. So.                 1549 5th Ave. So.
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Lincoln Center                   Education Foundation
357 9th Ave. N.                  521 Marie Avenue
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Kaposia Education Center         ALC
1225 1st Ave. So.                151 6th St. E.
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Adult Basic Education            Family Connections
517 Marie Ave.                   1515 5th Ave. So.
South St. Paul, MN 55075         South St. Paul, MN 55075
Central Square
100 7th Ave. N.                   
South St. Paul, MN 55075
Private Schools
Convent of the Visitation School Emanuel Lutheran School
2455 Visitation Drive            115 Crusader Avenue
Mendota Heights, MN 55120        West St. Paul, MN 55118
St. Croix Lutheran High School   St. John Vianney School
1200 Oakdale Avenue              1815 Bromley Street
West St. Paul, MN 55118          South St. Paul, MN 55075
St. Joseph's School              St. Michael's School
1138 Seminole Avenue             335 E. Hurley Street
West St. Paul, MN 55118          West St. Paul, MN 55118
St. Thomas Academy               Holy Trinity School
949 Mendota Heights Road         745 6th Avenue S.
Mendota Heights, MN 55120        South St. Paul, MN 55075
Higher Education Institutions
Brown Institute
1440 Northland Drive              
Mendota Heights, MN 55120
Inver Hills Community College
2500 East 80th Street             
Inver Grove Heights, MN 55076
Proposed Interconnection Sites
Administration Center            Government Complex
1590 West Hwy 55                 1560 - 1590 West Hwy 55
Hastings, MN 55033               Hastings, MN 55033
Judicial Center                  Law Enforcement Center
1560 West Hwy 55                 1580 West Hwy 55
Hastings, MN 55033               Hastings, MN 55033
Pleasant Hill Library            Burnhaven Library
1490 South Frontage Road         1101 West County Road 42
Hastings, MN 55033               Burnsville, MN 55306
Burnsville Police Department     Library System Administration
100 Civic Center Parkway         1340 Wescott Road
Burnsville, MN 55337             Eagan, MN 55123
Western Service Center           Galaxie Library
14955 Galaxie Avenue             14955 Galaxie Avenue
Apple Valley, MN 55124           Apple Valley, MN 55124
Pilot Knob Elementary School     Apple Valley Police Department
1436 Lone Oak Road               7100 147th Street West
Eagan, MN                        Apple Valley, MN 55124-9016
Dakota County Technical College
1300 - 145th Street E.            
Rosemount, MN 55068
 
*Grantee to provide interconnection between NDC4 I-Net hub and the I-Net hubs
of other Twin Cities area MediaOne systems which have been built or may be
built in the future. Future interconnection to sites within these systems or
interconnection between Grantee's system and other companies' systems are
subject to agreement with other franchisors and/or other companies where
applicable.
(Ord. 353, 2-15-2000)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-2: Adoption Of Franchise
13-2-3: Location, Other Regulations
13-2-4: Relocations
13-2-5: Tree Trimming
13-2-6: Indemnification
13-2-7: Vacation Of Public Ways
13-2-8: Change In Form Of Government
13-2-9: Franchise Fee
13-2-10: Provisions Of Chapter
13-2-11: Amendment Procedure
13-2-12: Previous Franchises Superseded
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following capitalized terms listed in
alphabetical order shall have the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights, county of Dakota, state of Minnesota.
CITY UTILITY SYSTEM: Facilities used for providing nonenergy related public
utility service owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer
and water service, but excluding facilities for providing heating, lighting or
other forms of energy.
COMMISSION: The Minnesota public utilities commission, or any successor agency
or agencies, including an agency of the federal government, which preempts all,
or part of the authority to regulate electric retail rates now vested in the
Minnesota public utilities commission.
COMPANY: Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, DBA Xcel
Energy its successors and assigns.
ELECTRIC FACILITIES: Electric transmission and distribution towers, poles,
lines, guys, anchors, conduits, fixtures, and necessary appurtenances owned or
operated by company for the purpose of providing electric energy for public
use.
NOTICE: A written notice served by one party on the other party referencing one
or more provisions of this chapter. Notice to company shall be mailed to the
general counsel, 414 Nicollet Mall, 5th floor, Minneapolis, MN 55401. Notice to
the city shall be mailed to the city administrator, city hall, 1101 Victoria
Curve, Mendota Heights, MN 55118. Either party may change its respective
address for the purpose of this chapter by written notice to the other party.
PUBLIC GROUND: Land owned by the city for park, open space or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, walkway or other public right of way within the
city. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-2: ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant Of Franchise: City hereby grants company, for a period of twenty
(20) years from the date passed and approved by the city, the right to transmit
and furnish electric energy for light, heat, power and other purposes for
public and private use within and through the limits of the city as its
boundaries now exist or as they may be adjusted in the future. For these
purposes, company may construct, operate, repair and maintain electric
facilities in, on, over, under and across the public grounds and public ways of
city, subject to the provisions of this chapter. Company may do all reasonable
things necessary or customary to accomplish these purposes, subject, however,
to such reasonable regulations as may be imposed by the city pursuant to
ordinance and to the further provisions of this franchise agreement.
   B.   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: This franchise agreement shall be
in force and effect from and after passage of this chapter, its acceptance by
company, and its publication as required by law. The city by council resolution
may revoke this franchise agreement if company does not file a written
acceptance with the city within ninety (90) days after publication.
   C.   Service And Rates: The service to be provided and the rates to be
charged by company for electric service in the city are subject to the
jurisdiction of the commission. The area within the city in which company may
provide electric service is subject to the provisions of Minnesota statutes,
section 216B.40.
   D.   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this chapter will be
paid by city and reimbursed to city by company.
   E.   Dispute Resolution: If either party asserts that the other party is in
default in the performance of any obligation hereunder, the complaining party
shall notify the other party of the default and the desired remedy. The
notification shall be written. Representatives of the parties must promptly
meet and attempt in good faith to negotiate a resolution of the dispute. If the
dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days of the written notice, the
parties may jointly select a mediator to facilitate further discussion. The
parties will equally share the fees and expenses of this mediator. If a
mediator is not used or if the parties are unable to resolve the dispute within
thirty (30) days after first meeting with the selected mediator, either party
may commence an action in district court to interpret and enforce this
franchise agreement or for such other relief as may be permitted by law or
equity for breach of contract, or either party may take any other action
permitted by law. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-3: LOCATION, OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: Electric facilities shall be located,
constructed and maintained so as not to interfere with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel along and over public ways and so as not to
disrupt normal operation of any city utility system previously installed
therein. Electric facilities shall be located on public grounds as determined
by the city. Company's construction, reconstruction, operation, repair,
maintenance and location of electric facilities shall be subject to permits if
required by separate ordinance and to other reasonable regulations of the city
to the extent not inconsistent with the terms of this franchise agreement.
Company may abandon underground electric facilities in place, provided at the
city's request, company will remove abandoned metal or concrete encased conduit
interfering with a city improvement project, but only to the extent such
conduit is uncovered by excavation as part of the city improvement project.
   B.   Field Locations: Company shall provide field locations for its
underground electric facilities within city consistent with the requirements of
Minnesota statutes, chapter 216D.
   C.   Street Openings: Company shall not open or disturb any public ground or
public way for any purpose without first having obtained a permit from the
city, if required by a separate ordinance, for which the city may impose a
reasonable fee. Permit conditions imposed on company shall not be more
burdensome than those imposed on other utilities for similar facilities or
work. Company may, however, open and disturb any public ground or public way
without permission from the city where an emergency exists requiring the
immediate repair of electric facilities. In such event company shall notify the
city by telephone to the office designated by the city as soon as practicable.
Not later than the second working day thereafter, company shall obtain any
required permits and pay any required fees.
   D.   Restoration: After undertaking any work requiring the opening of any
public ground or public way, company shall restore the same, including paving
and its foundation, to as good a condition as formerly existed, and shall
maintain any paved surface in good condition for one year thereafter. The work
shall be completed as promptly as weather permits, and if company shall not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and put the public ground or public way in the said condition, the
city shall have, after demand to company to cure and the passage of a
reasonable period of time following the demand, but not to exceed five (5)
days, the right to make the restoration at the expense of company. Company
shall pay to the city the cost of such work done for or performed by the city.
This remedy shall be in addition to any other remedy available to the city for
noncompliance with this subsection, but the city hereby waives any requirement
for company to post a construction performance bond, certificate of insurance,
letter of credit or any other form of security or assurance that may be
required, under a separate existing or future ordinance of the city, of a
person or entity obtaining the city's permission to install, replace or
maintain facilities in a public way.
   E.   Avoid Damage To Electric Facilities: Nothing in this chapter relieves
any person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable
care to avoid damaging electric facilities while performing any activity.
   F.   Notice Of Improvements: The city must give company reasonable notice of
plans for improvements to public grounds or public ways where the city has
reason to believe that electric facilities may affect or be affected by the
improvement. The notice must contain: 1) the nature and character of the
improvements, 2) the public grounds and public ways upon which the improvements
are to be made, 3) the extent of the improvements, 4) the time when the city
will start the work, and 5) if more than one public ground or public way is
involved, the order in which the work is to proceed. The notice must be given
to company a sufficient length of time in advance of the actual commencement of
the work to permit company to make any necessary additions, alterations or
repairs to its electric facilities.
   G.   Shared Use Of Poles: Company shall make space available on its poles or
towers for city fire, water utility, police or other city facilities upon terms
and conditions acceptable to company whenever such use will not interfere with
the use of such poles or towers by company, by another electric utility, by a
telephone utility, or by any cable television company or other form of
communication company. In addition, the city shall pay for any added cost
incurred by company because of such use by city. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-4: RELOCATIONS:
   A.   Relocation Of Electric Facilities In Public Ways: If the city
determines to vacate a public way for a city improvement project, or at city's
cost to grade, regrade, or change the line of any public way, or construct or
reconstruct any city utility system in any public way, it may order company to
relocate its electric facilities located therein if relocation is reasonably
necessary to accomplish the city's proposed public improvement. Except as
provided in subsection C of this section, company shall relocate its electric
facilities at its own expense. The city shall give company reasonable notice of
plans to vacate for a city improvement project, or to grade, regrade, or change
the line of any public way or to construct or reconstruct any city utility
system. If a relocation is ordered within five (5) years of a prior relocation
of the same electric facilities, which was made at company expense, the city
shall reimburse company for nonbetterment costs on a time and material basis,
provided that if a subsequent relocation is required because of the extension
of a city utility system to a previously unserved area, company may be required
to make the subsequent relocation at its expense. Nothing in this chapter
requires company to relocate, remove, replace or reconstruct at its own expense
its electric facilities where such relocation, removal, replacement or
reconstruction is solely for the convenience of the city and is not reasonably
necessary for the construction or reconstruction of a public way or city
utility system or other city improvement.
   B.   Relocation Of Electric Facilities In Public Ground: City may require
company at company's expense to relocate or remove its electric facilities from
public ground upon a finding by city that the electric facilities have become
or will become a substantial impairment to the existing or proposed public use
of the public ground.
   C.   Projects With Federal Funding: City shall not order company to remove
or relocate its electric facilities when a public way is vacated, improved or
realigned for a right of way project or any other project which is financially
subsidized in whole or in part by the federal government or any agency thereof,
unless the reasonable nonbetterment costs of such relocation are first paid to
company. The city is obligated to pay company only for those portions of its
relocation costs for which city has received federal funding specifically
allocated for relocation costs in the amount requested by the company, which
allocated funding the city shall specifically request. Relocation, removal or
rearrangement of any company electric facilities made necessary because of a
federally aided highway project shall be governed by the provisions of
Minnesota statutes, section 161.46, as supplemented or amended. It is
understood that the rights herein granted to company are valuable rights.
   D.   No Waiver: The provisions of this franchise apply only to facilities
constructed in reliance on a franchise from the city and shall not be construed
to waive or modify any rights obtained by company for installations within a
company right of way acquired by easement or prescriptive right before the
applicable public ground or public way was established, or company's rights
under state or county permit. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-5: TREE TRIMMING:
Company may trim all trees and shrubs in the public grounds and public ways of
city to the extent company finds necessary to avoid interference with the
proper construction, operation, repair and maintenance of any electric
facilities installed hereunder, provided that company shall save the city
harmless from any liability arising therefrom, and subject to permit or other
reasonable regulation by the city. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-6: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Indemnity Of City: Company shall indemnify, keep and hold the city free
and harmless from any and all liability on account of injury to persons or
damage to property occasioned by the construction, maintenance, repair,
inspection, the issuance of permits, or the operation of the electric
facilities located in the public grounds and public ways. The city shall not be
indemnified for losses or claims occasioned through its own negligence except
for losses or claims arising out of or alleging the city's negligence as to the
issuance of permits for, or inspection of, company's plans or work. The city
shall not be indemnified if the injury or damage results from the performance
in a proper manner of acts reasonably deemed hazardous by company, and such
performance is nevertheless ordered or directed by city after notice of
company's determination.
   B.   Defense Of City: In the event a suit is brought against the city under
circumstances where this agreement to indemnify applies, company at its sole
cost and expense shall defend the city in such suit if written notice thereof
is promptly given to company within a period wherein company is not prejudiced
by lack of such notice. If company is required to indemnify and defend, it will
thereafter have control of such litigation, but company may not settle such
litigation without the consent of the city, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of
any defense or immunity otherwise available to the city and company, in
defending any action on behalf of the city shall be entitled to assert in any
action every defense or immunity that the city could assert in its own behalf.
(Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-7: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
The city shall give company at least two (2) weeks prior written notice of a
proposed vacation of a public way. Except where required for a city improvement
project, the vacation of any public way, after the installation of electric
facilities, shall not operate to deprive company of its rights to operate and
maintain such electric facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the
same and the loss and expense resulting from such relocation are first paid to
company. In no case, however, shall city be liable to company for failure to
specifically preserve a right of way under Minnesota statutes, section 160.29.
(Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-8: CHANGE IN FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
Any change in the form of government of the city shall not affect the validity
of this chapter. Any governmental unit succeeding the city shall, without the
consent of company, succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the city
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-9: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Purpose. The Mendota Heights City Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the City to impose a franchise fee on those public utility
companies that provide electric services within the City of Mendota Heights.
      1.   Pursuant to City Ordinance 585, a Franchise Agreement between the
City of Mendota Heights and Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota
corporation, its successors and assigns, the City has the right to impose a
franchise fee on Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, its
successors and assigns, in an amount and fee design as set forth in Section 9
of the Northern States Power Company Franchise and in the fee schedule attached
to the ordinance codified herein as Schedule A.
   B.   Franchise Fee Statement.
      1.   A franchise fee is hereby imposed on Northern States Power Company,
a Minnesota Corporation, its successors and assigns, under its electric
franchise in accordance with the schedule attached here to and made a part of
this chapter, commencing with the NSPM April, 2024 billing month.
      2.   This fee is an account-based fee on each premise and not a meter-
based fee. In the event that an entity covered by this ordinance has more than
one meter at a single premise, but only one account, only one fee shall be
assessed to that account. If a premise has two or more meters being billed at
different rates, the Company may have an account for each rate classification,
which will result in more than one franchise fee assessment for electric
service to that premise. If the Company combines the rate classifications into
a single account, the franchise fee assessed to the account will be the largest
franchise fee applicable to a single rate classification for energy delivered
to that premise. In the event any entities covered by this ordinance have more
than one premise, each premise (address) shall be subject to the appropriate
fee. In the event a question arises as to the proper fee amount for any
premise, the Company’s manner of billing for energy used at all similar
premises in the city will control.
   C.   Payment. The said franchise fee shall be payable to the City in
accordance with the terms set forth in Section 9 of the Franchise.
   D.   Surcharge. The City recognizes that the Minnesota Public Utilities
Commission may allow Company to add a surcharge to customer rates of city
residents to reimburse Company for the cost of the fee.
   E.   Enforcement. Any dispute, including enforcement of a default regarding
this ordinance will be resolved in accordance with Section 13-2-2 E. of this
chapter.
   F.   Effective Date of Franchise Fee. The effective date of this Ordinance
shall be after its publication and ninety (90) days after the sending of
written notice enclosing a copy of this adopted Ordinance to NSPM by certified
mail. Collection of the fee shall commence as provided above. (Ord. 463, 11-18-
2014; amd. Ord. 586, 1-9-2024)
13-2-10: PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Severability: Every section, provision, or part of this chapter is
declared separate from every other section, provision, or part and if any
section, provision, or part shall be held invalid, it shall not affect any
other section, provision, or part. Where a provision of any other city
ordinance conflicts with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail.
   B.   Limitation On Applicability: This chapter constitutes a franchise
agreement between the city and company as the only parties and no provision of
this franchise shall in any way inure to the benefit of any third person
(including the public at large) so as to constitute any such person as a third
party beneficiary of the agreement or of any one or more of the terms hereof,
or otherwise give rise to any cause of action in any person not a party hereto.
(Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
13-2-11: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
Either party to this franchise agreement may at any time propose that the
agreement be amended to address a subject of concern and the other party will
consider whether it agrees that the amendment is mutually appropriate. If an
amendment is agreed upon, this chapter may be amended at any time by the city
passing a subsequent ordinance declaring the provisions of the amendment, which
amendatory ordinance shall become effective upon the filing of company's
written consent thereto with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after the
date of final passage by the city of the amendatory ordinance. (Ord. 463, 11-
18-2014)
13-2-12: PREVIOUS FRANCHISES SUPERSEDED:
This franchise supersedes any previous electric franchise granted to company or
its predecessor. (Ord. 463, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 3
GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
13-3-1: Definitions
13-3-2: Adoption Of Franchise
13-3-3: Location, Other Regulations
13-3-4: Relocations
13-3-5: Tree Trimming
13-3-6: Indemnification
13-3-7: Vacation Of Public Ways
13-3-8: Change In Form Of Government
13-3-9: Franchise Fee
13-3-10: Provisions Of Chapter
13-3-11: Amendment Procedure
13-3-12: Previous Franchises Superseded
13-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following capitalized terms listed in
alphabetical order shall have the following meanings:
CITY: The city of Mendota Heights, county of Dakota, state of Minnesota.
CITY UTILITY SYSTEM: Facilities used for providing nonenergy related public
utility service owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer
and water service, but excluding facilities for providing heating, lighting or
other forms of energy.
COMMISSION: The Minnesota public utilities commission, or any successor agency
or agencies, including an agency of the federal government, which preempts all,
or part of the authority to regulate gas retail rates now vested in the
Minnesota public utilities commission.
COMPANY: Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, DBA Xcel
Energy its successors and assigns.
GAS: As used herein shall be held to include natural gas, manufactured gas, or
other form of gaseous energy.
GAS FACILITIES: Pipes, mains, regulators, and other facilities owned or
operated by company for the purpose of providing gas service for public use.
NOTICE: A written notice served by one party on the other party referencing one
or more provisions of this chapter. Notice to company shall be mailed to the
general counsel, 414 Nicollet Mall, 5th floor, Minneapolis, MN 55401. Notice to
the city shall be mailed to the city administrator, city hall, 1101 Victoria
Curve, Mendota Heights, MN 55118. Either party may change its respective
address for the purpose of this chapter by written notice to the other party.
PUBLIC GROUND: Land owned by the city for park, open space or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, walkway or other public right of way within the
city. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-2: ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant Of Franchise: City hereby grants company, for a period of twenty
(20) years from the date passed and approved by the city, the right to transmit
and furnish gas energy for light, heat, power and other purposes for public and
private use within and through the limits of the city as its boundaries now
exist or as they may be adjusted in the future. For these purposes, company may
construct, operate, repair and maintain gas facilities in, on, over, under and
across the public grounds and public ways of city, subject to the provisions of
this chapter. Company may do all reasonable things necessary or customary to
accomplish these purposes, subject, however, to such reasonable regulations as
may be imposed by the city pursuant to ordinance and to the further provisions
of this franchise agreement.
   B.   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: This franchise agreement shall be
in force and effect from and after passage of this chapter, its acceptance by
company, and its publication as required by law. The city by council resolution
may revoke this franchise agreement if company does not file a written
acceptance with the city within ninety (90) days after publication.
   C.   Service And Rates: The service to be provided and the rates to be
charged by company for gas service in city are subject to the jurisdiction of
the commission.
   D.   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this chapter will be
paid by city and reimbursed to city by company.
   E.   Dispute Resolution: If either party asserts that the other party is in
default in the performance of any obligation hereunder, the complaining party
shall notify the other party of the default and the desired remedy. The
notification shall be written. Representatives of the parties must promptly
meet and attempt in good faith to negotiate a resolution of the dispute. If the
dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days of the written notice, the
parties may jointly select a mediator to facilitate further discussion. The
parties will equally share the fees and expenses of this mediator. If a
mediator is not used, or if the parties are unable to resolve the dispute
within thirty (30) days after first meeting with the selected mediator, either
party may commence an action in district court to interpret and enforce this
franchise agreement or for such other relief as may be permitted by law or
equity for breach of contract, or either party may take any other action
permitted by law. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-3: LOCATION, OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: Gas facilities shall be located, constructed
and maintained so as not to interfere with the safety and convenience of
ordinary travel along and over public ways and so as not to disrupt normal
operation of any city utility system previously installed therein. Gas
facilities shall be located on public grounds as determined by the city.
Company's construction, reconstruction, operation, repair, maintenance and
location of gas facilities shall be subject to permits if required by separate
ordinance and to other reasonable regulations of the city to the extent not
inconsistent with the terms of this franchise agreement. Company may abandon
underground gas facilities in place, provided, at city's request, company will
remove abandoned metal pipe interfering with a city improvement project, but
only to the extent such metal pipe is uncovered by excavation as part of the
city's improvement project.
   B.   Field Locations: Company shall provide field locations for its
underground gas facilities within city consistent with the requirements of
Minnesota statutes, chapter 216D.
   C.   Street Openings: Company shall not open or disturb any public ground or
public way for any purpose without first having obtained a permit from the
city, if required by a separate ordinance, for which the city may impose a
reasonable fee. Permit conditions imposed on company shall not be more
burdensome than those imposed on other utilities for similar facilities or
work. Company may, however, open and disturb any public ground or public way
without permission from the city where an emergency exists requiring the
immediate repair of gas facilities. In such event company shall notify the city
by telephone to the office designated by the city as soon as practicable. Not
later than the second working day thereafter, company shall obtain any required
permits and pay any required fees.
   D.   Restoration: After undertaking any work requiring the opening of any
public ground or public way, company shall restore the same, including paving
and its foundation, to as good a condition as formerly existed, and shall
maintain any paved surface in good condition for one year thereafter. The work
shall be completed as promptly as weather permits, and if company shall not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and put the public ground or public way in the said condition, the
city shall have, after demand to company to cure and the passage of a
reasonable period of time following the demand, but not to exceed five (5)
days, the right to make the restoration at the expense of company. Company
shall pay to the city the cost of such work done for or performed by the city.
This remedy shall be in addition to any other remedy available to the city for
noncompliance with this subsection, but the city hereby waives any requirement
for company to post a construction performance bond, certificate of insurance,
letter of credit or any other form of security or assurance that may be
required, under a separate existing or future ordinance of the city, of a
person or entity obtaining the city's permission to install, replace or
maintain facilities in a public way.
   E.   Avoid Damage To Gas Facilities: Nothing in this chapter relieves any
person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to
avoid damaging gas facilities while performing any activity.
   F.   Notice Of Improvements: The city must give company reasonable notice of
plans for improvements to public grounds or public ways where the city has
reason to believe that gas facilities may affect or be affected by the
improvement. The notice must contain: 1) the nature and character of the
improvements, 2) the public grounds and public ways upon which the improvements
are to be made, 3) the extent of the improvements, 4) the time when the city
will start the work, and 5) if more than one public ground or public way is
involved, the order in which the work is to proceed. The notice must be given
to company a sufficient length of time in advance of the actual commencement of
the work to permit company to make any necessary additions, alterations or
repairs to its gas facilities. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-4: RELOCATIONS:
   A.   Relocation Of Gas Facilities In Public Ways: If the city determines to
vacate a public way for a city improvement project, or at city's cost to grade,
regrade, or change the line of any public way, or construct or reconstruct any
city utility system in any public way, it may order company to relocate its gas
facilities located therein if relocation is reasonably necessary to accomplish
the city's proposed public improvement. Except as provided in subsection C of
this section, company shall relocate its gas facilities at its own expense. The
city shall give company reasonable notice of plans to vacate for a city
improvement project, or to grade, regrade, or change the line of any public way
or to construct or reconstruct any city utility system. If a relocation is
ordered within five (5) years of a prior relocation of the same gas facilities,
which was made at company expense, the city shall reimburse company for
nonbetterment costs on a time and material basis, provided that if a subsequent
relocation is required because of the extension of a city utility system to a
previously unserved area, company may be required to make the subsequent
relocation at its expense. Nothing in this chapter requires company to
relocate, remove, replace or reconstruct at its own expense its gas facilities
where such relocation, removal, replacement or reconstruction is solely for the
convenience of the city and is not reasonably necessary for the construction or
reconstruction of a public way or city utility system or other city
improvement.
   B.   Relocation Of Gas Facilities In Public Ground: City may require company
at company's expense to relocate or remove its gas facilities from public
ground upon a finding by city that the gas facilities have become or will
become a substantial impairment to the existing or proposed public use of the
public ground.
   C.   Projects With Federal Funding: City shall not order company to remove
or relocate its gas facilities when a public way is vacated, improved or
realigned for a right of way project or any other project which is financially
subsidized in whole or in part by the federal government or any agency thereof,
unless the reasonable nonbetterment costs of such relocation are first paid to
company. The city is obligated to pay company only for those portions of its
relocation costs for which city has received federal funding specifically
allocated for relocation costs in the amount requested by the company, which
allocated funding the city shall specifically request. Relocation, removal or
rearrangement of any company gas facilities made necessary because of a
federally aided highway project shall be governed by the provisions of
Minnesota statutes, section 161.46, as supplemented or amended. It is
understood that the rights herein granted to company are valuable rights.
   D.   No Waiver: The provisions of this franchise apply only to facilities
constructed in reliance on a franchise from the city and shall not be construed
to waive or modify any rights obtained by company for installations within a
company right of way acquired by easement or prescriptive right before the
applicable public ground or public way was established, or company's rights
under state or county permit. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-5: TREE TRIMMING:
Company is also granted the permission and authority to trim all shrubs and
trees, including roots, in the public ways of city to the extent company finds
necessary to avoid interference with the proper construction, operation, repair
and maintenance of gas facilities, provided that company shall save city
harmless from any liability in the premises. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-6: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Indemnity Of City: Company shall indemnify, keep and hold the city free
and harmless from any and all liability on account of injury to persons or
damage to property occasioned by the construction, maintenance, repair,
inspection, the issuance of permits, or the operation of the gas facilities
located in the public grounds and public ways. The city shall not be
indemnified for losses or claims occasioned through its own negligence except
for losses or claims arising out of or alleging the city's negligence as to the
issuance of permits for, or inspection of, company's plans or work. The city
shall not be indemnified if the injury or damage results from the performance
in a proper manner of acts reasonably deemed hazardous by company, and such
performance is nevertheless ordered or directed by city after notice of
company's determination.
   B.   Defense Of City: In the event a suit is brought against the city under
circumstances where this agreement to indemnify applies, company at its sole
cost and expense shall defend the city in such suit if written notice thereof
is promptly given to company within a period wherein company is not prejudiced
by lack of such notice. If company is required to indemnify and defend, it will
thereafter have control of such litigation, but company may not settle such
litigation without the consent of the city, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld. This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of
any defense or immunity otherwise available to the city and company, in
defending any action on behalf of the city shall be entitled to assert in any
action every defense or immunity that the city could assert in its own behalf.
(Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-7: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
The city shall give company at least two (2) weeks prior written notice of a
proposed vacation of a public way. Except where required for a city improvement
project, the vacation of any public way, after the installation of gas
facilities, shall not operate to deprive company of its rights to operate and
maintain such gas facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
and the loss and expense resulting from such relocation are first paid to
company. In no case, however, shall city be liable to company for failure to
specifically preserve a right of way under Minnesota statutes, section 160.29.
(Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-8: CHANGE IN FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
Any change in the form of government of the city shall not affect the validity
of this chapter. Any governmental unit succeeding the city shall, without the
consent of company, succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the city
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-9: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Fee Schedule. During the term of the franchise hereby granted, and in
lieu of any permit or other fees being imposed on the Company, the City may
impose on the Company a franchise fee by collecting the amounts indicated in a
Fee Schedule set forth in a separate ordinance from each customer in the
designated Company Customer Class. The parties have agreed that the franchise
fee collected by the Company and paid to the City in accordance with this
Section 9 shall not exceed the following amounts:
Class Fee Per Premise Per Month
Class              Fee Per Premise Per Month
Residential        $2.00
Sm C & I - Non-Dem $20.00
Sm C & I - Demand  $20.00
Large C & I        $50.00
Public Street Ltg  $15.00
Muni Pumping - N/D $2.00
Muni Pumping - Dem $2.00
 
   B.   Separate Ordinance. The franchise fee shall be imposed by a separate
ordinance duly adopted by the City Council, which ordinance shall not be
adopted until at least 90 days after written notice enclosing such proposed
ordinance has been served upon Company by certified mail. The fee shall not
become effective until the beginning of a Company billing month at least 90
days after written notice enclosing such adopted ordinance has been served upon
Company by certified mail. Section 13-3-2 E. shall constitute the sole remedy
for solving disputes between Company and the City in regard to the
interpretation of, or enforcement of, the separate ordinance. No action by the
City to implement a separate ordinance will commence until this Ordinance is
effective. A separate ordinance which imposes a lesser franchise fee on the
residential class of customers than the maximum amount set forth in Section 13-
3-9 A. above shall not be effective against Company unless the fee imposed on
each other customer classification is reduced proportionately in the same or
greater amount per class as the reduction represented by the lesser fee on the
residential class.
   C.   Terms Defined.
 
CUSTOMER  Shall refer to classes listed in the Fee Schedule and as defined or
CLASS:    determined in Company’s gas rate book on file with the Commission.
          Refers to the Schedule in Section 13-3-9 A. setting forth the
          various customer classes from which a franchise fee would be
FEE       collected if a separate ordinance were implemented immediately after
SCHEDULE: the effective date of this franchise agreement. The Fee Schedule in
          the separate ordinance may include new Customer Classes added by the
          Company to its gas tariffs after the effective date of this
          franchise agreement.
 
   D.   Equivalent Fee Requirement. The separate ordinance imposing the fee
shall not be effective against Company unless it lawfully imposes and the City
monthly or more often collects a fee or tax of the same or greater equivalent
amount on the receipts from sales of energy within the City by any other energy
supplier, provided that, as to such a supplier, the City has the authority to
require a franchise fee or to impose a tax. The “same or greater equivalent
amount” shall be measured, if practicable, by comparing amounts collected as a
franchise fee from each similar customer, or by comparing, as to similar
customers the percentage of the annual bill represented by the amount collected
for franchise fee purposes. If the Company specifically consents in writing to
a franchise or separate ordinance collecting or failing to collect a fee from
another energy supplier in contravention of this Section 13-3-9 D., the
foregoing conditions will be waived to the extent of such written consent.
   E.   Collection of the Fee. The franchise fee shall be payable quarterly and
shall be based on the amount collected by Company during complete billing
months during the period for which payment is to be made by imposing a
surcharge equal to the designated franchise fee for the applicable customer
classification in all customer billings for electric service in each class. The
payment shall be due the last business day of the month following the period
for which the payment is made. The franchise fee may be changed by ordinance
from time to time; however, each change shall meet the same notice requirements
and not occur more often than annually and no change shall require a collection
from any customer for electric service in excess of the amounts specifically
permitted by this Section 13-3-9. The time and manner of collecting the
franchise fee is subject to the approval of the Commission. No franchise fee
shall be payable by Company if Company is legally unable to first collect an
amount equal to the franchise fee from its customers in each applicable class
of customers by imposing a surcharge in Company’s applicable rates for electric
service. Company may pay the City the fee based upon the surcharge billed
subject to subsequent reductions to account for uncollectibles, refunds and
correction of erroneous billings. Company agrees to make its records available
for inspection by the City at reasonable times provided that the City and its
designated representative agree in writing not to disclose any information
which would indicate the amount paid by any identifiable customer or customers
or any other information regarding identified customers. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014;
amd. Ord. 583, 1-9-2024; Ord. 584, 1-9-2024; Ord. 585, 1-9-2024)
13-3-10: PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Severability: Every section, provision, or part of this chapter is
declared separate from every other section, provision, or part and if any
section, provision, or part shall be held invalid, it shall not affect any
other section, provision, or part. Where a provision of any other city
ordinance conflicts with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail.
   B.   Limitation On Applicability: This chapter constitutes a franchise
agreement between the city and company as the only parties and no provision of
this franchise shall in any way inure to the benefit of any third person
(including the public at large) so as to constitute any such person as a third
party beneficiary of the agreement or of any one or more of the terms hereof,
or otherwise give rise to any cause of action in any person not a party hereto.
(Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
13-3-11: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
Either party to this franchise agreement may at any time propose that the
agreement be amended to address a subject of concern and the other party will
consider whether it agrees that the amendment is mutually appropriate. If an
amendment is agreed upon, this chapter may be amended at any time by the city
passing a subsequent ordinance declaring the provisions of the amendment, which
amendatory ordinance shall become effective upon the filing of company's
written consent thereto with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after the
date of final passage by the city of the amendatory ordinance. (Ord. 464, 11-
18-2014)
13-3-12: PREVIOUS FRANCHISES SUPERSEDED:
This franchise supersedes any previous gas franchise granted to company or its
predecessor. (Ord. 464, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 4
QWEST BROADBAND SERVICES FRANCHISE
SECTION:
13-4-1: Franchise Adopted
13-4-1: FRANCHISE ADOPTED:
An ordinance granting a franchise to Qwest Broadband Services, Inc., DBA
CenturyLink, Inc. ("CenturyLink"), to construct, operate and maintain a cable
system in the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, setting forth conditions
accompanying the grant of the franchise; providing for regulation and use of
the system and the public rights of way; and prescribing penalties for the
violation of the provisions herein.
On March 15, 2016, the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota ("city"), adopted an
ordinance granting a cable television franchise to CenturyLink. The ordinance
serves two (2) purposes. First, it is intended to provide requirements for the
provision of cable television services with respect to technical standards,
customer service obligations, and related matters. Second, it grants a
nonexclusive cable franchise to CenturyLink to operate, construct and maintain
a cable system within the city.
The ordinance includes the following: a) requires CenturyLink to have a
bandwidth capable of providing the equivalent of a typical 750 MHz cable
system; b) imposes on CenturyLink a franchise fee of five percent (5%) of
CenturyLink's annual gross revenues; c) establishes a franchise term of five
(5) years with the option for the city to extend for an additional five (5)
years; d) provides a list of schools and public buildings entitled to receive
complimentary cable service; e) requires CenturyLink to dedicate channel
capacity for public, educational and governmental programming and provides
financial support of such channels; f) mandates customer service standards
regarding CenturyLink's provision of cable services; and g) requires a
performance bond and security fund to enforce CenturyLink's compliance with the
ordinance.
It is hereby determined that publication of this chapter and summary will
clearly inform the public of the intent and effect of ordinance 493. A copy of
the entire ordinance shall be posted at the Mendota Heights City Hall. (Ord.
493, 3-15-2016)
TITLE 14
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT, ILLICIT DISCHARGE, SOIL EROSION, AND SEDIMENTATION
SECTION:
14-1-1: Purpose
14-1-2: Definitions
14-1-3: Responsibility For Administration
14-1-4: Applicability
14-1-5: Severability
14-1-6: Construction Site Stormwater Runoff And Erosion Control
14-1-7: Illicit Discharge And Connection
14-1-8: Postconstruction Stormwater Runoff
14-1-9: Wetland Protection
14-1-10: Enforcement
14-1-11: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
14-1-12: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
14-1-13: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
14-1-14: Injunctive Relief
14-1-15: Compensatory Action
14-1-16: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
14-1-17: Criminal Prosecution
14-1-18: Remedies Not Exclusive
14-1-19: Sealants
14-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of Mendota Heights by reducing and controlling
stormwater, soil erosion and sedimentation within the city of Mendota Heights.
It establishes standards and specifications for conservation practices and
planning activities which enhance water quality, minimize stormwater pollution,
soil erosion, and sediment in waterways, and control the volume of water runoff
to receiving streams and other water resources.
This chapter requires that all land disturbance activities, whether requiring a
permit under this chapter or otherwise, shall not result in nuisance conditions
or threaten public safety, health and welfare. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord.
490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
ANTI-ICING:    The application of a liquid deicer prior to onset of a snow event.
ASPHALT BASED  A petroleum based sealer material that is commonly used on driveways, parking
SEALER:        lots, and other surfaces and does contain PAHs.
AUTHORIZED     Employees or designees of the city of Mendota Heights or other governing
ENFORCEMENT    authorities designated to enforce this chapter.
AGENCY:
BEST
MANAGEMENT     Structural, vegetative, or managerial practices used to treat, prevent or
PRACTICES      reduce water pollution.
(BMPs):
CITY:          The city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, and any of its employees, agents,
               contractors or designees.
CERTIFIED SALT An individual who applies deicer and has completed Minnesota Pollution Control
APPLICATOR:    Agency Smart Salting training (Level 1 or 2).
CLEAN WATER    The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251 et seq.), and any
ACT:           subsequent amendments thereto.
COAL TAR:      A byproduct of the process used to refine coal.
COAL TAR       A surface applied sealing product containing coal tar, coal tar pitch, coal tar
SEALANT        pitch volatiles, or any variation assigned the chemical abstracts service (CAS)
PRODUCT:       numbers 65996-93-2, 65996-89-6, or 8007-45-2.
DEICER:        Any substance used to melt snow and ice or used for its ani-icing effects.
DISCHARGE:     Any substance entering the stormwater system by any means.
DISCHARGE,     Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the stormwater system, except
ILLICIT:       as exempted in subsections 14-1-7B2a and B2b of this chapter.
DISCHARGE,     Any discharge to the stormwater system that is not composed entirely of
NONSTORMWATER: stormwater.
               Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action of water,
EROSION:       wind, ice or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities of people or
               nature.
EROSION        Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include, but are not limited to:
PREVENTION:    soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, limited grading,
               temporary or permanent cover, and construction phasing.
               A.   All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed and a
               uniform (e.g., evenly distributed, without large bare areas) perennial
FINAL          vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the native
STABILIZATION: background vegetative cover for the area has been established on all unpaved
               areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent
               stabilization measures have been employed;
               B.   For individual lots in residential construction by the contractor, the
               contractor must either: 1) complete final stabilization as specified above, or
              2) establish temporary stabilization including perimeter controls for an
               individual lot prior to occupation of the structure. If the contractor chooses
               item 2 above, it must inform the owner in writing of the need for, and benefits
               of, final stabilization;
              C.   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes, final
               stabilization may be accomplished by returning the disturbed land to its
               preconstruction agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not previously used
               for agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately adjacent to
              surface waters and drainage systems and areas which are not being returned to
               their preconstruction agricultural use must meet the final stabilization
               criteria in subsection A or B of this definition;
               D.   The contractor must clean out all sediment from conveyances and from
               temporary sedimentation basins that are to be used as permanent water quality
               management basins. Sediment must be stabilized to prevent it from washing back
              into the basin, conveyances or drainageways discharging off site or to surface
               waters. The cleanout of permanent basins must be sufficient to return the basin
               to design capacity. All drainage ditches constructed to drain water from the
               site after construction is complete must be stabilized to preclude erosion; and
              E.   All temporary synthetic and structural erosion prevention and sediment
               control BMPs must be removed as part of the final stabilization on the site.
               Any material, including any substance, waste, or combination thereof, which
HAZARDOUS      because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or infectious
MATERIALS:     characteristics, may cause or significantly contribute to a substantial present
               or potential hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment when
               improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
ILLICIT        Either:
CONNECTIONS:   A.   Any drainage, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows an
               illicit discharge to enter
               the stormwater system, including, but not limited to, any conveyances which
               allow any nonstormwater discharge including wastewater, process wastewater, and
              wash water to enter the stormwater system and any connections to the stormwater
               system from indoor drains, floor drains, washbasins, or sinks, regardless of
               whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or
               approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
               B.   Any drainage connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the
              stormwater system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent
               records and approved by an authorized enforcement agent.
INDUSTRIAL     Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined in 40 CFR section
ACTIVITY:      122.26(b)(14).
LAND           The city’s guidance document, which defines the technical erosion control,
DISTURBANCE    sediment control and stormwater management guidelines required to be met when
GUIDANCE       submitting the stormwater pollution prevention plan.
DOCUMENT:
               Any activity which changes the volume or peak flow discharge rate of stormwater
LAND           runoff from the land surface, including the grading, digging, cutting,
DISTURBING     scraping, or excavating of soil, placement of fill materials, paving,
ACTIVITY:      construction, substantial removal of vegetation or any activity which bares
               soil or rock, or involves the diversion or piping of any natural or manmade
               watercourse.
MPCA:          The Minnesota pollution control agency.
               National pollutant discharge elimination system as established pursuant to 33
NPDES:         USC section 1342(b) to regulate discharges of pollutants to waters of the
               United States.
               A national pollutant discharge elimination system stormwater discharge permit
               issued by the Minnesota pollution control agency (pursuant to 33 USC section
NPDES PERMIT:  1342(b)) that regulates discharges of pollutants to waters of the United
               States, whether the permit is issued to an individual, group, or general area
               wide basis.
NONPOINT       Pollution from any source other than any discernible, confined or discreet
SOURCE         conveyances, and shall include, but not be limited to, pollutants from
POLLUTION:     agricultural, silvicultural, mining, construction including grading, subsurface
               disposal and urban runoff sources.
               Any condition resulting in or likely to result in any damages, degraded water
NUISANCE       quality, increased erosion, unstable conditions, flooding, lack of easement,
CONDITION:     lack of capacity, disrepair and all threats to public health, safety and
               welfare.
PAHs           A group of organic chemicals formed during the incomplete burning of coal, oil,
(POLYCYCLIC    gas, or other organic substances. Present in coal tar and believed harmful to
AROMATIC       humans, fish, and other aquatic life.
HYDROCARBONS):
PERMANENT      A plan to establish permanent vegetation to prevent erosion of soil as defined
STABILIZATION  under “final stabilization”. Permanent vegetation includes sod, native grasses,
PLAN:          trees or other acceptable forms of landscaping.
               Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm, corporation or
PERSON:        other private or public entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
               or as the owner’s agent.
               Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include, but
               are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive
               fluids; nonhazardous liquids and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
               garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances/ munitions,
POLLUTANT:     and accumulations of these materials, so that same may cause or contribute to
               pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
               substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
               particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
               constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
               kind.
PREMISES:      Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or
               unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
SWMP:          The city’s surface water management plan.
SEDIMENT:      Solid matter carried by water, wastewater or other liquids that has come to
               rest on the earth’s surface either above or below the water level.
               Methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the site. Sediment control
SEDIMENT       practices include, but are not limited to: silt fences, sediment traps, earth
CONTROL:       dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm
               drain inlet protection and temporary or permanent sediment basins.
               Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any
STORMWATER:    form of natural precipitation, snowmelt and/or discharges from surface
               dewatering activities.
               Anything within the stormwater system that collects, conveys or stores
STORMWATER     stormwater, including, but not limited to: any inlets, piped storm drains,
FACILITY:      pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or
               altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
               The use of structural or nonstructural practices that are designed to prevent
STORMWATER     nuisance conditions or reduce stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge
MANAGEMENT:    volumes, peak flow discharge rates and detrimental changes that affect water
               quality and habitat.
               A plan submitted by the applicant that includes erosion prevention measures,
               sediment control measures, pollution prevention measures and stormwater
               management measures. The plan shall contain a narrative, plan sheets and
STORMWATER     appropriate details that describe how the erosion prevention measures, sediment
POLLUTION      control measures, pollution prevention measures and stormwater management
PREVENTION     measures will be implemented. The plan shall also indicate whether stormwater
PLAN:          will be managed on site or off site and, if on site, the general location and
               type of management practices. This final plan must be signed by a licensed
               professional engineer (PE) of the state of Minnesota, who will verify that the
               design of all stormwater management practices meets the submittal requirements
               of the city of Mendota Heights land disturbance guidance document.
               Facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not
STORMWATER     limited to: any roads with drainage systems, streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
SYSTEM:        piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
               and humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, watercourses and other
               drainage structures.
               Anything manufactured, constructed or erected, which is normally attached to,
STRUCTURE:     or positioned on, land including portable structures, earthen structures,
               roads, parking lots and paved storage areas.
WASTEWATER:    Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater, discharged
               from a constructed facility.
WATERCOURSE:   A stream or body of water, or a natural or artificial channel for the passage
               of stormwater.
WATERS OF THE  Any federally regulated water in the United States per definition as specified
U.S.:          by 33 CFR 328.a.
               As defined in Minnesota rules 7050.0130, subpart F, means areas that are
               inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and
WETLANDS:      duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support,
               a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
               conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
               areas.
WINTER         An individual who applies deicer for hire (i.e., snow plow drivers, salt truck
MAINTENANCE    drivers, property managers). (Ord. 459, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016;
PROFESSIONAL:  Ord. 573, 9-6-2022)
 
14-1-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all land disturbing activities and water entering a
stormwater system or watercourse generated on any developed and undeveloped
lands unless explicitly exempted by this chapter. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd.
Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-6: CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER RUNOFF AND EROSION CONTROL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish regulation of land
disturbing activities, preservation and enhancement of the natural environment
by reducing sedimentation in streams, lakes, stormwater systems and other
waterways, protection of the quality of surface water resources, preserve and
protection of wildlife habitat, restore sites to reduce the negative
environmental effects of land disturbing activities, provide effective
practices for erosion and sedimentation control, and to comply with local,
state and federal regulations.
   B.   Scope: Except where an exemption applies, any person proposing a land
disturbing activity or whose land constitutes a land disturbing activity within
the city shall apply to the city for the approval of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan. No land shall be disturbed until the plan is approved by the
city and conforms to the standards set forth herein.
   C.   Stormwater Management Permit Required:
      1.   Review And Approval: No person shall grade, fill, excavate, store,
dispose of soil and earth materials, or perform any other land disturbing or
land filling activity without first submitting a stormwater pollution
prevention plan for review and approval by the city and obtaining a permit as
required in this section and the requirements of section
14-1-8, "Postconstruction Stormwater Runoff", of this chapter. If the
applicability requirements of this section or section
14-1-8 of this chapter apply the stormwater pollution prevention plan submittal
needs only to meet the requirements of that section. The stormwater management
permit is not a replacement for a conditional use permit as required in this
code or a wetlands permit as required in section
12-2-6 of this code, or the requirements of the critical area district as
required in title 12, chapter 3 of this code nor is it a replacement for a
watershed district permit or a state NPDES permit.
      2.   General Exemptions: Land disturbing activities, which meet all the
following criteria are exempt from the requirements of this section:
         a.   The disturbed or filled area is five thousand (5,000) square feet
or less in area; and
         b.   The volume of soil or earth material stored or moved is fifty
(50) cubic yards or less; and
         c.   No drainageway is blocked or has its stormwater carrying
capacities or characteristics modified; and
         d.   The activity does not take place within one hundred feet (100')
by horizontal measurement from the top of the bank of a watercourse, the
ordinary high water mark of a water body, or the ordinary high water mark of a
wetland associated with a watercourse or water body. The activity does not take
place within an established 100-year floodplain; and
         e.   Not considered part of a larger common plan of development. (Ord.
421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
      3.   Categorical Exemptions: Notwithstanding the requirements of this
Code, the following activities are exempt from the permit requirements:
         a.   Emergency activities necessary to prevent or alleviate immediate
dangers to life or property.
         b.   Activities that are under the regulatory jurisdiction of an
authorized State or Federal agency.
         c.   General farming, gardening and nursery activities.
         d.   Residential construction activity limited to:
            (1)   Additions to the existing structure,
            (2)   Landscaping and landscaping structures, and
            (3)   Construction of a detached garage or accessory structure.
(Ord. 540, 4-2-2019)
   D.   Submission Requirements For A Stormwater Management Permit:
      1.   Application Items: Application for a stormwater management permit
shall include submittal of stormwater pollution prevention plan which shall
include:
         a.   Application form and fee.
         b.   Narrative describing temporary erosion and sediment control,
permanent stabilization, pollution prevention and permanent stormwater
management.
         c.   Site map and grading plan.
         d.   Temporary erosion and sediment control plan meeting the
requirements of the City's land disturbance guidance document.
         e.   Permanent stabilization plan meeting the requirements of the
City's land disturbance guidance document.
         f.   Permanent stormwater management measures meeting the requirements
outlined in section
14-1-8 of this chapter and the City's land disturbance guidance document.
         g.   Work schedule.
         h.   Cost estimate.
         i.   Landscape plan showing proposed landscape improvements
(plantings, seeding, sod, etc.) if applicable to the project application.
         j.   Lighting/photometric plan displaying proposed exterior lighting,
to include light fixture type, height, and foot-candle coverage if applicable
to the project application.
         k.   The City may require the applicant to submit additional
information or data it determines necessary to complete its review. Submittals
determined by the City to be incomplete or otherwise unacceptable for the
purposes of this chapter shall be returned to the applicant for correction and
resubmittal. (Ord. 431, 2-1-2011; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
      2.   Fees: All applications shall be accompanied by a permit fee. Fees
for permits shall be fixed and determined by the City Council, adopted by
ordinance and uniformly enforced. Such permit fees may, from time to time, be
amended by City Council ordinance. A copy of the ordinance setting forth
currently in effect permit fees shall be kept on file by the City and shall be
open to inspection during regular business hours.
   E.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Process: City staff will review each complete application for a
stormwater management permit to determine its conformance with the provisions
of this chapter. Within ten (10) working days of receiving an application, city
staff will identify if additional materials are required to complete a permit
application and within sixty (60) days of receiving an application, city staff
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a stormwater management permit
application.
      2.   Appeal: An applicant may appeal a decision of denial of a permit
under this section which shall be made under the manner prescribed in section
14-1-11 of this chapter.
      3.   Site Review: Once a permit is granted, city staff shall inspect the
property for:
         a.   Erosion control compliance with this code;
         b.   Permit conditions and site plans prior to the onset of
construction; and
         c.   Permit conditions and site plans throughout project construction.
      4.   Stop Work Order: The city reserves the right to issue a stop work
order for any violation of this chapter, or noncompliance with permit
conditions, observed during site inspection. Stop work order shall remain in
effect until identified violations or noncompliant issues have been corrected.
   F.   Form Of Security: Before a permit is issued, the city may require the
permittee to post security in a form acceptable to the city equal to one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the cost estimate stated in the
application and agreed by the city to be the cost of the work to be done under
the permit. The security may take the form of cash in United States currency or
an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a financial institution in a form
acceptable to the city.
      1.   Release Of Security:
         a.   Provided no action has been taken by the city to recover all or a
part of the security before that determination has been made, any security
deposited with the city to guarantee performance of the grading and erosion
control work shall be released to the person holding the permit upon
determination by the city that the conditions of the permit have been
satisfactorily performed.
         b.   Provided no action has been taken by the city to recover all or
part of the security filed by the permittee before that date, securities held
to ensure the successful completion of an interim or final plan shall be
released to the permittee either one year after termination of the permit or
when a final plan is submitted for the unimproved site, whichever is later.
   G.   Suspension Of Permit: In enforcing the permit:
      1.   The city may suspend the permit and issue a stop work order as
provided under subsection E4 of this section. Upon receipt of a stop work
order, the permittee shall cease all work on the work site except for work
necessary to remedy the cause of the suspension.
      2.   The permittee may request a reinstatement of a suspended permit upon
correction of the causes for suspension and, if the conditions of the permit
have been complied with in full, the city shall reinstate the permit.
      3.   If the permittee fails or refuses to cease work as required under
subsection E4 of this section, the city shall revoke the permit.
      4.   The city shall not reinstate a revoked permit but shall proceed to
act against the security as provided in subsection H of this section.
      5.   Work performed without a permit is a violation of this chapter and
is subject to misdemeanor enforcement.
   H.   Action Against Security: The city may act against the appropriate
security if any of the following conditions exist:
      1.   The permittee stops performing the land disturbing activities or
filling, and abandons the work site prior to completion of permanent site
stabilization.
      2.   The permittee fails to conform to the stormwater pollution
prevention plan as approved, and has had its permit revoked as provided in
subsection G of this section.
      3.   The techniques utilized for temporary or permanent stabilization
fail within one year of installation or before the final plan is implemented
for the site or portion of the site, whichever comes later.
      4.   The city determines that its actions are necessary to prevent
excessive erosion from occurring on the site, or to prevent nuisance conditions
from occurring on adjacent or nearby properties.
The city shall use funds recovered from the security to reimburse the city for
all direct and indirect costs incurred in doing the remedial work undertaken by
the city or private contractor under contract with the city. (Ord. 421, 2-3-
2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-7: ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION:
   A.   Objectives: The objectives prevent the introduction of pollutants to
the stormwater system by any user, to prohibit illicit connections and
discharges to the stormwater system, and to establish authority to carry out
all inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Discharge Prohibitions:
      1.   Prohibition Of Illegal Disposal And Dumping Of Substances And
Materials: No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, or store any
substance upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin
conduit or drainage structure, business place or upon any public or private
plot of land, so that the same might be or become a pollutant, except if
secured within a container or bag or contained within a lawfully established
waste disposal facility.
No person shall intentionally dispose of grass, leaves, dirt or landscape
material into a water resource, buffer, street, road, alley, catch basin,
culvert, curb, gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, flood control
channel, canal, storm drain or any fabricated natural channel.
      2.   Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged into the stormwater system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
         a.   The commencement, execution or continuance of discharge of
pollutants to the stormwater system is prohibited except as follows: water line
flushing or other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering,
diverted stream flows, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated
pumped groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active
groundwater dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian
habitat or wetland flows, firefighting activities, and any other water source
not containing pollutants.
         b.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety are allowed.
         c.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
         d.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the federal environmental
protection agency, Minnesota pollution control agency, or other agency,
provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the
permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the
stormwater system.
      3.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections: The construction, use,
maintenance, or continued existence of such connections that intentionally
convey nonstormwater to the stormwater system is prohibited. This prohibition
expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.
      A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the person
connects a line conveying wastewater to the stormwater system, or allows such a
connection to continue.
      No person shall connect or convey water from floor drains to the storm
sewer system.
   C.   Discharge Prevention:
      1.   Discharge Prevention Requirements: Any property owner within the
city shall comply with the following requirements to prevent discharges:
         a.   No person shall leave, deposit, discharge, dump, or otherwise
expose any chemical or septic waste in an area where discharge to a street,
storm sewer system, or surface water body may occur. This prohibition shall
apply to actual discharges as well as the potential for discharge from, for
example, a septic system in a location where emergency overflow could discharge
to a street, surface water body, or storm sewer system.
         b.   Individual sewage treatment systems must be maintained in order
to prevent failure. No part of any individual sewage treatment system requiring
on land or inground disposal of waste shall be located in an area where
effluent could immediately or gradually reach a body of water due to the
existing physical characteristics of the site or the system.
         c.   Recreational vehicle sewage shall be disposed of at a proper
sanitary waste facility. Waste must not be discharged in an area where drainage
to streets or storm sewer system may occur.
         d.   Water in swimming pools must sit for seven (7) days without the
addition of any chlorine to allow for evaporation of the chlorine before it is
discharged.
         e.   Runoff of water from residential properties shall be minimized to
the maximum extent practicable. Paved areas must be swept prior to wash down
activity. Runoff water from the washing down of paved areas on commercial or
industrial properties is prohibited unless necessary for health or safety
purposes and is not in violation of any other applicable regulations.
         f.   Mobile washing companies, such as carpet cleaning and mobile
vehicle washing services, shall dispose of any wastewater to the sanitary sewer
system. Wastewater shall not be discharged to the streets or storm sewer
system.
         g.   Objects such as motor vehicle parts that contain grease, oil or
other hazardous substances and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous
materials shall not be stored in areas susceptible to runoff. Any machinery or
equipment that is to be repaired or maintained in areas susceptible to runoff
shall be placed in a confined area to contain any leaks, spills, or discharges.
         h.   Debris and residue shall be removed, as required below:
            (1)   All motor vehicle parking lots and private streets shall be
swept, at a minimum of once a year in the spring, to remove debris. Such debris
shall be collected and disposed of properly.
            (2)   Fuel and chemical residue or other types of potentially
harmful material, such as animal waste, garbage or batteries shall be removed
as soon as possible and disposed of properly. Household hazardous waste must be
disposed of through the county collection program or at any other authorized
disposal site. Household hazardous waste shall not be placed in a trash
container.
   D.   Industrial Activity Discharges To The Storm Sewer System:
      1.   Any person subject to an industrial activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the city
prior to allowing of discharge to the storm sewer system.
      2.   All facilities that have stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activity must adhere to the following requirements: Any person
responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an
illicit discharge may be required to implement, at said person's expense,
additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge
of pollutants to the storm sewer system. These BMPs shall be part of a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the NPDES permit.
   E.   Suspension Of Stormwater System Access:
      1.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
city may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater system discharge access to a
person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent or substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the stormwater
system or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the
stormwater system or waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to
persons. If authorized enforcement agency takes steps to prevent or minimize
damage to the stormwater system or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons, the city may bill the property owner and/or operator, or
lien the subject property for the cost of the action.
      2.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the stormwater system in violation of this chapter may have
their stormwater system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of the violator's stormwater system access. The violator may
petition the city for a reconsideration and hearing. A person is committing an
offense and is subject to misdemeanor enforcement if the person reinstates
stormwater system access to premises terminated pursuant to this chapter
without the prior approval of the city.
   F.   Monitoring Of Discharges:
      1.   The city shall be allowed to enter and inspect facilities and
properties subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter and for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination, and the performance of any additional duties
as defined by state and federal law that relate to the discharge of stormwater.
If a person does not wish to allow the city to enter a building to conduct the
required activity, he or she may retain a private inspector to conduct the
activity. The private inspector must have credentials that are acceptable to
the city. The private inspector shall provide the city with the relevant
samples, test results, reports or any other information that is being
requested.
      2.   The city shall have the right to establish on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency solely to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's
stormwater discharge.
      3.   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment to ensure discharge is in compliance with MPCA standards.
The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own
expense.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
owner or operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner or
operator.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the owner and/or operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the city reasonable access to the permitted facility for the
purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
   G.   Requirement To Prevent, Reduce, And Control Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: The owner or operator of any property shall
provide, at owner/operator's expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal stormwater
system or watercourses through the use of structural and nonstructural best
management practices (BMPs). Further any person responsible for a property or
premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be
required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and
nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
stormwater system. These BMPs are listed in the stormwater pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP) and the Minnesota pollution control agency's current BMPs, and are
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit and chapter 6 of
the city's surface water management plan (SWMP).
   H.   Watercourse Protection:
      1.   Owner Responsibility: Every owner of a property through which a
watercourse passes, or such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part
of the watercourse within their property free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly impact the flow of water through the watercourse. All owners or
lessees shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent
to a watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   I.   Notification Of Spills:
      1.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility, vehicle or operation, or responsible for emergency
response for a facility or operation has knowledge of any known or suspected
release of materials of any amount which are resulting or may result in illicit
discharges or pollutants discharging into the stormwater system, watercourse,
or waters of the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of
such a release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify the
city and other emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services.
In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify
the city in person or by phone no later than the beginning of the next business
day.
If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment or vehicle, the owner or operator of such
establishment or vehicle shall also retain a written record of the discharge
and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained
for at least ten (10) years, or longer if required by other regulatory
authority.
   J.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to reduce the illicit discharge
of chloride, which is used in most deicers, and can be easily transmitted into
surface waters and well as groundwater, threatening drinking water supplies, as
well as the health of freshwater fish and other aquatic life. One of the
primary sources of chloride entering surface and ground water is the improper
utilization and management of deicing materials. The city seeks to minimize the
negative environmental impacts of chloride while maintaining public safety
through removal of snow and ice from roadways, sidewalks, and other paved
surfaces, by requiring proper storage and Best Management Practices for
commercial, institutional, and non-NPDES permitted industrial facilities.
Winter maintenance professionals are also encouraged but not required to
complete the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Smart Salting training (Level 1
or 2). The following is required for all commercial, institutional, and non-
NPDES permitted industrial facilities located within the city of Mendota
Heights:
      1.   Designated salt storage areas must be covered or indoors;
      2.   Designated salt storage areas must be located on an impervious
surface; and
      3.   Best Management Practices must be implemented to reduce exposure
when transferring material in designated salt storage areas, such as sweeping,
diversions, containments, etc. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016;
Ord. 573, 9-62022)
14-1-8: POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER RUNOFF:
   A.   Objectives: The objectives of this section are to establish minimum
stormwater management requirements and controls to protect and safeguard the
general health, safety, and welfare of the public residing in watersheds within
this jurisdiction. This section seeks to meet that purpose through the
following objectives:
      1.   Reduce stormwater runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and
nonpoint source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater management
controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained
and pose no threat to public safety;
      2.   Control stormwater runoff from development and redevelopment to
reduce flooding, silt deposits and stream bank erosion, and maintain the
integrity of stream channels;
      3.   Control nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater runoff from
development; and
      4.   Control the total annual volume of surface water runoff which flows
from any specific site following development.
   B.   Applicability: The rules of applicability are as set forth in section
14-1-6, "Construction Site Stormwater Runoff And Erosion Control", of this
chapter.
   C.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan:
      1.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan Required For All New
Developments And Redevelopments: No application for development or
redevelopment will be approved unless it includes a stormwater pollution
prevention plan detailing how runoff and associated water quality impacts
resulting from the development will be controlled or managed and contains the
submission materials identified in subsection 14-1-6D of this chapter. This
plan must indicate whether stormwater will be managed on site or off site and,
if on site, the general location and type of practices.
The stormwater pollution prevention plan(s) shall be referred for comment to
interested agencies, and any comments must be addressed in a final stormwater
pollution prevention plan. This final plan must be signed by a licensed
professional engineer (PE) of the state of Minnesota.
      2.   Design Of Stormwater Facilities: The stormwater pollution prevention
plan shall meet the design requirements outlined in the city's land disturbance
guidance document.
      3.   Maintenance Of Existing Stormwater Facilities: Any stormwater
facility in existence prior to the adoption date hereof shall be maintained by
the owner of the stormwater facility and in a manner to conform to design
standards for that facility. Any redevelopment of the stormwater facility shall
require that the facility meet current stormwater design standards as set forth
in the city's land disturbance guidance document.
The thresholds for maintenance are triggered once sediment deposits reach a
point greater than is allowed under the design standard criteria, or such
deposits begin to have a substantial effect on the water quality or holding
capacity of the pond.
      4.   Inspection Of Stormwater Facilities: Inspection programs shall be
established on a regular basis, including, but not limited to, an inspection in
accordance with the schedule defined in the MPCA MS4 permit section V, part 6.b
or more often if deemed necessary to ensure proper functioning of the
stormwater management facility. Inspections are the responsibility of the owner
of the stormwater facility and must be completed by a certified erosion control
specialist in the state of Minnesota hired for that purpose. Inspection results
must be completed and submitted to the city in accordance with the schedule
defined in the MPCA MS4 permit section V, part 6.b from the completion of
development or from the adoption date hereof for a preexisting stormwater
facility.
Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and
repair records; sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material
or water in drainage control facilities; and evaluating the condition of
drainage control facilities and other stormwater treatment practices.
All new and existing stormwater management facilities must undergo, at a
minimum, an inspection in accordance with the schedule defined in the MPCA MS4
permit section V, part 6.b to document maintenance and repair needs and ensure
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and accomplishment of its
purposes. This maintenance may include: removal of silt, litter and other
debris from all catch basins, inlets and drainage pipes; grass cutting and
vegetation removal; and necessary replacement of landscape vegetation. Any
maintenance needs found must be addressed in a timely manner, as determined by
the city. The inspection and maintenance requirement may be increased as deemed
necessary to ensure proper functioning of the stormwater management facility.
   D.   Maintenance Covenants: Maintenance of all stormwater management
facilities shall be ensured through the creation of a formal maintenance
covenant that must be approved by the city and recorded at the Dakota County
recorder's office prior to final plan approval. As part of the covenant, a
schedule shall be developed for when and how often maintenance will occur to
ensure proper function of the stormwater management facility. The covenant
shall also include plans for periodic inspections to ensure proper performance
of the facility between scheduled cleanouts.
The owner/operator shall show in the maintenance covenant how it will utilize
best management practices (BMPs) to prevent discharge of pollutants into the
stormwater system. These BMPs are listed in the city's stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) and the most current Minnesota pollution control agency
BMP standards, the state of Minnesota stormwater manual and are necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit and the city's local surface
water management plan. The threshold for maintenance is triggered once sediment
deposition reaches a point greater than is allowed under the design standard
criteria, or such deposition begins to have a substantial effect on the water
quality or holding capacity of the pond.
   E.   Right Of Entry For Inspection: When any new drainage control facility
is installed on private property, or when any new connection is made between
private property and a public stormwater system, the property owner shall grant
to the city the right to enter the property at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner for the purpose of inspection. This includes the right to
enter a property when the city has a reasonable basis to believe that a
violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, and to enter when
necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or correction of an ordinance
violation.
   F.   Records Of Installation And Maintenance Activities: Parties responsible
for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management facility shall
make records of the installation, inspections, and of all maintenance and
repairs, and shall retain the records for at least ten (10) years. These
records shall be made available to the city during inspection of the facility
and at other reasonable times upon request. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490,
2-16-2016)
14-1-9: WETLAND PROTECTION:
All land disturbing activities which impact or may impact a wetland must be in
conformance with title 12, chapter 2, "Wetlands Systems", of this code. (Ord.
421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Violation: Any action, failure to act or land use practice that would
impair water quality if allowed to continue, shall constitute a public nuisance
condition and be treated as a misdemeanor under this code.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city finds that a person has violated
any section of this chapter or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter,
the city shall order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. Such notice may require:
      1.   Monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      2.   Elimination of illicit discharges or connections;
      3.   Abatement of pollution and hazards;
      4.   Restoration of affected property;
      5.   Remediation of violation;
      6.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
      7.   Loss of any posted securities;
      8.   Implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; and
      9.   Other actions as deemed necessary by the city.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by the city or other local governmental unit or a contractor
and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
   C.   Failure To Maintain Practices: If a responsible party fails or refuses
to meet the requirements of the maintenance covenant, the city, after
reasonable notice, may correct a violation of the design standards or
maintenance needs by performing all necessary work to place the facility in
proper working condition. In the event that the stormwater management facility
becomes a danger to public safety or public health, the city shall notify the
party responsible for maintenance of the stormwater management facility in
writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall have thirty
(30) days to effect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved
manner. After proper notice, the city may assess the owner(s) of the facility
for the cost of repair work, and any penalties and the cost of the work shall
be a lien on the property, or prorated against the beneficial users of the
property, and may be placed on the tax bill and collected as ordinary taxes by
the county. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-11: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
city. The notice of appeal must be received within five (5) days from the date
of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate
authority or designee shall take place within thirty (30) days from the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the city or the local
government unit or designee shall be final. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490,
2-16-2016)
14-1-12: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within five (5)
working days of the decision of the city or local government unit upholding the
decision of the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and
are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation
and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent
or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government
agency or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set
forth above. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-13: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner must file any objection to the amount of the
assessment in writing with the city within thirty (30) days. If the amount due
is not paid within a timely manner, as determined by the decision of the city,
or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the costs shall
become a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on
the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such
violation. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-14: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 421, 2-3-
2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-15: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and similar programs. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009;
amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-16: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-
16-2016)
14-1-17: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person who has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law. The authorized
enforcement agency may recover all attorney fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses. (Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-18: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 421, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 490, 2-16-2016)
14-1-19: SEALANTS:
   A.   Purpose: The city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, understands that
lakes, rivers, streams and other bodies of water are natural assets which
enhance the environmental, recreational, cultural and economic resources and
contribute to the general health and welfare of the community. The use of
sealers on asphalt driveways is a common practice. However, scientific studies
on the use of driveway sealers have demonstrated a relationship between
stormwater runoff and certain health and environmental concerns.
The 2013 Minnesota legislature enacted a statewide prohibition on the use and
sale of coal tar sealant products. This new statewide prohibition has been
codified under Minnesota statutes section 116.202 and is effective on January
1, 2014. The purpose of this section is to prohibit violations of Minnesota
statutes section 116.202 in the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, in order to
protect, restore, and preserve the quality of its waters.
   B.   Prohibitions: In accordance with Minnesota statutes section 116.202:
      1.   No person shall apply a coal tar sealant product on asphalt paved
surfaces within the city of Mendota Heights.
      2.   No person shall sell a coal tar sealant product that is formulated
or marketed for application on asphalt paved surfaces within the city of
Mendota Heights.
      3.   No person shall allow a coal tar sealant product to be applied upon
property that is under that person's ownership or control.
      4.   No person shall contract with any commercial sealer product
applicator, residential or commercial developer, or any other person for the
application of any coal tar sealant product to any driveway, parking lot, or
other surface within the city.
      5.   No commercial sealer product applicator, residential or commercial
developer, or other similar individual or organization shall direct any
employee, independent contractor, volunteer, or other person to apply any coal
tar sealant product to any driveway, parking lot, or other surface within the
city.
   C.   Exemption: Upon the express written approval from the MPCA and in
accordance with Minnesota statutes section 116.202, a person who conducts
research on the environmental effects of coal tar sealant product or where the
use of coal tar sealant product is necessary in the development of an
alternative technology shall be exempt from the prohibitions provided in
subsection B of this section. Any person that is granted approval by the MPCA
must provide a copy of the written approval from the MPCA to the city of
Mendota Heights, Minnesota, twenty (20) days before conducting the research.
   D.   Asphalt Based Sealcoat Products: The provisions of this section shall
only apply to coal tar sealant products in the city and shall not affect the
use of asphalt based sealer products within the city.
   E.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more than
ninety (90) days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
   F.   Severability: If any provision of this section is found to be invalid
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the
remaining provisions shall not be affected. (Ord. 459, 2-3-2014; amd. Ord. 490,
2-16-2016)
TITLE 15
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, AND CONFORMANCE
ARTICLE A. TITLE, PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
15-1A-1: Title And Application
15-1A-2: Intent And Purpose
15-1A-3: Application And Interpretation
15-1A-4: Separability
15-1A-1: TITLE AND APPLICATION:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as the MENDOTA HEIGHTS
ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS or except as referred to hereinafter, where it shall be
known as this “Environmental Standards Ordinance”. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-1A-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This Environmental Standards Ordinance is adopted for the purposes of:
   A.   Implementing the Natural Resources Plan incorporated as part of the
City’s Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   Protect the health and safety of residents.
   C.   Protect water quality and minimize stormwater runoff.
   D.   Prevent erosion or flooding.
   E.   Control or eliminate soil erosion and sedimentation.
   F.   Encourage renewable energy systems that have a positive impact in
energy conservation, with limited adverse impact on the community.
   G.   Maintain slope stability and existing drainage patterns. (Ord. 593, 9-
17-2024)
15-1A-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Environmental Standards Ordinance shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of pub
   B.   This article shall apply to any person, developer or use that would
alter or impact a natural resource which shall be identified by, or included
within, an:
      1.   Officially adopted map.
      2.   Wetland Delineation and any Mitigation or Replacement.
      3.   Identified public water as established by the MN Department of
Natural Resources.
      4.   Significant or Heritage Tree Removal.
      5.   Forest Alteration. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-1A-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention that the provisions of this
Environmental Standards Ordinance are separable in accordance with the
following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge any provisions of
this Environmental Standards Ordinance to be invalid, such judgement shall not
affect any other provision of this Environmental Standards Ordinance not
specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court or competent jurisdiction shall judge the application of
any provision of this Environmental Standards Ordinance to a particular
property, building or structure, such judgement shall not affect any other
property, buildings or structures. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION, ROLES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
15-2-1:    Administration And Enforcement Officials
15-2-2:    Natural Resources Commission
15-2-3:    Appeal Of Public Works Director
15-2-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
This Environmental Standards Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by
the Public Works Director, who may designate the Zoning Administrator, Natural
Resources Coordinator or assigns as referenced throughout this Chapter. The
following roles and responsibilities of the Public Works Director, or as may be
assigned, are established:
   A.   Wetland Delineation Certification in accordance with the Wetland
Conservation Act.
   B.   Review and approval of any administrative permit for compliance with
the requirements of this Environmental Standards Ordinance.
   C.   All applications for any permit required by this Environmental
Standards Ordinance are received, dated, and filed.
   D.   Coordinate the review process required by this Environmental Standards
Ordinance which may include review and recommendation by the Natural Resources
Commission.
   E.   Issuance of any Administrative Permit or WCA Permit including, but not
limited to, the Notice of Decision and mitigation or replacement plans.
   F.   Permanent and current records of this Environmental Standards Ordinance
are maintained, including, but not limited to all maps, amendments,
conservation easements, permit approvals, and required official actions.
   G.   The Public Works Director shall institute in the name of the City
appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator of this Environmental
Standards Ordinance as provided by law. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-2-2: NATURAL RESOURCES COMMISSION:
The Natural Resources Commission (“NRC”) is established for the City on [XXXX,
XXX]. The following is established:
   A.   Meetings, Procedures, Records.
      1.   The NRC shall be appointed by the City Council and shall serve as a
recommending body to the city council and planning commission.
      2.   The NRC shall publish a monthly meeting schedule on an annual basis.
The NRC shall meet to conduct their official business.
      3.   The NRC shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its recommendations, transactions and findings, which record
shall be maintained as a public record.
      4.   The NRC shall submit to the city council a true and correct copy of
all its minutes, recommendations and other reports.
   B.   Powers and Duties.
      1.   The NRC is a recommending body and shall not make any final
determination or decisions, unless such decision making is expressly granted by
the City Code or directed by the City Council.
      2.   The NRC shall be responsible for the review, amendment or study of
this Environmental Standards Ordinance when directed by the City Council.
Authorization must be granted by the City Council.
      3.   The NRC shall review and provide recommendations to the planning
commission or City Council as required by this Environmental Standards
Ordinance or as required by Title 12: Zoning of the City Code.
      4.   The NRC shall provide recommendations on the following common
applications:
         a.   Deviations or variances from the Landscape Standards in Section [
12-4A-5 ].
         b.   Deviations or variances from the requirements established in
Chapter 3: Urban Forest and Significant Trees of this Environmental Standards
Ordinance.
         c.    Deviations or variances from the Buffer requirements established
in Section [
12-4A-4 .D.].
         d.   Deviations or variances from the requirements established in
Section [
12-6A-12 ] MRCCA Site Plan Requirements.
         e.   As may be requested from the planning commission or City Council.
(Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-2-3: APPEAL OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   Board of Appeals. The City Council is designated as the Board of
Appeals for any appeal of a decision made by either the Public Works Director
or it is assigned.
   B.   Time for Filing Appeal. An appeal to a decision made by the Public
Works Director must be filed within 90 days. The Applicant, Owner, other
interested person, or officer of the City affected by the decision may appeal
to the City Council by filing a written notice stating the action and the
specific grounds upon which the appeal is made.
   C.   City Council Action.
      1.   The City Council may conduct a hearing as it determines is necessary
and will determine what notice, if any, shall be given of such hearing.
      2.   If the City Council determines a hearing is necessary, the City
Council shall set a date no earlier than seven (7) days or more than 30 days
after the determination is made.
      3.   Notice of the hearing before the City Council shall be mailed to all
appellants.
      4.   The City Council shall take action to either uphold the decision of
the Public Works Director or may overturn in full or with certain conditions
the initial decision. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 3
URBAN FOREST PRESERVATION
SECTION:
15-3-1:    Purpose
15-3-2:    Applicability
15-3-3:    Definitions
15-3-4:    Standards
15-3-5:    Forest Alteration Permit
15-3-6:    Forest Management Plan Required
15-3-7:    Tree Loss Mitigation
15-3-8:    Diseased Trees
15-3-9:    Enforcement
15-3-1: PURPOSE:
Trees and woodlands play an integral role throughout the City of Mendota
Heights, providing improved air quality, erosion control, energy conservation,
wildlife habitat, cooler surface temperatures, increased property values, and
aesthetic beauty. It is therefore the intent of the City of Mendota Heights to
protect, preserve, and enhance trees and woodlands within the City, by
reasonably limiting the removal of trees during construction, site work, and
land development activities, as well as to mitigate for the loss of trees due
to these activities, thereby promoting and protecting public health, safety,
welfare and assuring a healthy urban forest into the future. (Ord. 595, 11-6-
2024)
15-3-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to construction, development, or redevelopment projects
that require a grading permit, building permit, or planning application, and
will affect trees or forested areas. This chapter also applies to any proposed
Heritage Tree removal, or property in which 33% or more significant and/or
heritage trees are removed from the property where the property contains a
minimum of seven trees. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, as used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AMERICAN NATIONAL STANDARDS INSTITUTE (ANSI) A300 TREE STANDARDS (“ANSI A300"):
Standards set forth by the ANSI in Standard A300 that establish the performance
standards for the care and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and other woody
plants. The ANSI A300 is available from the City’s Natural Resources
Coordinator.
APPLICANT: Developer, builder, contractor, or property owner who applies for a
forest alteration, land use alteration, grading or building permit; or as part
of a planning case.
CERTIFIED ARBORIST: An arborist with up-to-date certification by the
International Society of Arborists (ISA).
CONIFER TREE: A woody plant that is a member of the division Pinophyta and at
maturity is at least 12 feet or more in height. Conifers are cone bearing and
most in our climate keep their leaves (also called needles) year-round.
Tamarack (also called larch) is the only native conifer in our climate that
drops all of its needles in the fall.
CONTROL: Includes measures to prevent, slow the spread, suppress, eradicate, or
destroy a tree disease or pests.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE (CRZ): The minimum area around a tree that must remain
undisturbed. The critical root radius is calculated by measuring the tree’s
diameter at standard height (DSH). For each inch of tree diameter, 1.5 feet of
root zone radius must be protected. For example, if a tree’s DSH is 10 inches,
then its critical root zone radius is 15 feet (10 x 1.5 = 15).
DECIDUOUS TREE: A woody plant, which sheds leaves annually, having a defined
crown, and at maturity is at least 15 feet or more in height.
DEVELOPMENT: A project on land, including vacant land, which the construction
of structures, improvements, or land use changes has been approved or requires
a permit by the City.
DIAMETER AT STANDARD HEIGHT (DSH): A measurement used for trees in the
landscape. It is the diameter of a tree trunk as measured at a height of four
and one-half feet above ground. Diameter is determined by measuring the
circumference of the tree trunk at four and one-half feet above ground and
dividing by 3.14.
FOREST: A stand of significant trees covering at least a quarter acre of
ground, where the leaves and branches of trees (forest canopy) shade 75 percent
or more of the ground. Forests can be continuous areas covering many acres or
can be isolated quarter-acre patches on individual or multiple lots.
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN: A plan that shows all trees located within the area to
be developed or within the property. The plan shall include all significant and
heritage trees to be preserved and measures taken to preserve them. The plan
will also include calculations to determine the number of replacement trees as
required by the tree mitigation and management plan section. The plan shall be
developed by a forestry or horticultural professional.
FOREST PEST OR SHADE TREE PEST: Has the same meaning as set forth in Minnesota
Statutes § 89.001, as may be amended from time to time.
HAZARD TREE: A tree that has structural defects that may cause the tree or tree
part to fail, and has been determined that such failure could cause property
damage or personal injury and has been identified as a hazard tree or high risk
tree by an International Society of Agriculture (ISA) Certified Arborist.
HERITAGE TREE: A tree of any native species or cultivar of a native species
that is 24 inches in diameter or greater, excluding invasive species. Heritage
trees are healthy trees that are likely to have a life expectancy of greater
than ten years, have a relatively sound and solid trunk with no extensive
decay, and have no major insects, pathological problem, or defects and is not
deemed a Hazard Tree. Heritage trees are valued for their size and their
legacy.
INVASIVE SPECIES: Species that are not native to Minnesota and cause economic
or environmental harm or harm to human health or are regulated as prohibited or
restricted under the Minnesota Department of Agriculture’s noxious weed law.
NATIVE TREE: A tree native to the local ecosystem(s) found in Mendota Heights
and immediate surrounding area, is naturally found in the area, is suited to
the local climatological conditions or recommended by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources as a native tree for the changing climate, and is not an
introduced, exotic, noxious, or invasive species.
NATURAL RESOURCES COORDINATOR: A natural resources professional who is employed
by the City or appropriate agent or independent contractor designated by the
City.
REDEVELOPMENT: A project in which the construction of structures, improvements,
or land use changes has been approved or requires a permit by the City. Lots
with existing structures that are split for the construction of additional
structures are included in this definition.
SHADE TREE: A woody perennial that at maturity is at least 15 feet in height
and grown primarily for aesthetic or environmental purposes.
SIGNIFICANT TREE: A healthy tree measuring a minimum of six inches in diameter
for deciduous trees, 10 feet in height for conifer trees, and is not considered
hazardous. Buckthorn or other noxious, invasive, woody plants or trees as
determined by the Natural Resources Coordinator or are listed as prohibited or
restricted under the Minnesota Department of Agriculture’s noxious weed law are
not considered a significant tree species at any diameter.
STRUCTURE: Anything manufactured, constructed, or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures.
TREE PEST: Any vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen, or plant that
is determined by the City to be harmful, injurious, or destructive to trees or
community forests.
TREE REMOVAL: Cutting, pruning, girdling, or otherwise causing tree death by
human activities.
UTILITY: Electric, telephone, cable television, water, sanitary or storm sewer,
solid waste, gas or similar service operations.
VACANT LOT: A lot or parcel located within the City that is not currently
occupied by a resident, business, or organization. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-4: STANDARDS:
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A300 shall be followed in the
planting, transplanting, and care of trees and other woody species. Where the
ANSI A300 does not establish a standard, or where circumstances warrant, the
City shall have the authority to require compliance with additional tree
standards concerning the management of trees and other woody species. When
developing a Forest Management Plan in compliance with the ANSI A300 standards
and/or any standards required by the City, the Forest Management Plan shall
take the following standards into consideration:
   A.   Saving forests and groups of trees is encouraged over protecting
individual trees scattered across the site; and
   B.   Placement of utilities is encouraged to be along corridors between tree
preservation areas, and use of common trenches or tunnel installation, if
possible. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-5: FOREST ALTERATION PERMIT:
   A.   Forest alteration permit. A forest alteration permit application is
required to be submitted to the City and must be approved prior to removing any
significant or heritage trees as part of any of the following:
      1.   Removal of any Heritage Tree.
      2.   Removal of 33% of significant and/or heritage trees on any lot,
vacant or otherwise occupied, when the property contains seven (7) or more
significant or heritage trees.
      3.   A project that requires a planning application when trees on the
property may be affected.
      4.   A grading or building permit is required and trees on the property
may be affected. Failure to obtain a Forest Alteration Permit prior to removing
significant or specimen trees when a forest alteration permit is required will
result in a tree replacement requirement that assumes all trees removed were
significant trees, and/or escrow fee forfeiture.
   B.   When tree replacement is required, any significant and heritage trees
removed as part of a forest alteration permit shall follow requirements for
tree replacement as shown in
15-3-6  and
15-3-7  within this chapter.
   C.   Forest alteration permit appeal process. If the forest alteration
permit is denied by the city, the applicant may appeal the decision. The appeal
shall be submitted in writing, along with the argument(s) for appeal, and
received by the city within 90 days of denial. The City Council shall set a
date of hearing of the appeal at a regular City Council meeting within 15 days
of the date the appeal is submitted. The City Council shall issue a final
decision of the appeal on the date of the hearing or at the regular City
Council meeting following the hearing of the appeal. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-6: FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN REQUIRED:
   A.   The applicant shall submit a Forest Management Plan containing all
requirements listed in this Section, and other necessary information to
determine compliance with this chapter, when removing any significant or
heritage trees as part of any of the following:
      1.   When removing 33% or more of significant and/or heritage trees on
any lot, vacant or otherwise occupied, when the property contains seven (7) or
more significant or heritage trees.
      2.   A project that requires a planning case when trees on the property
may be affected.
      3.   A grading or building permit is required and trees on the property
may be affected.
   B.   An application fee, as well as an escrow fee, shall be required as
established annually by the City Council. The Forest Management Plan should
reflect the applicant’s best effort to determine the most feasible and
practical layout of buildings, parking lots, driveways, streets, storage and
recreational facilities, and other physical features, so as to remove or damage
the fewest significant and/or heritage trees and minimize the negative
environmental effects caused by loss of tree canopy.
   C.   Forest Management Plan Requirements
      1.   The Forest Management Plan shall include the following:
         a.   A forest and significant tree inventory overlaid on site plans
that shows size, species, and location of all significant trees located within
the property where tree removal is proposed.
         b.   A list of total diameter inches and species of all healthy
significant and heritage trees inventoried.
         c.   A list of the total diameter inches and species of all healthy
significant and heritage trees proposed for removal.
         d.   Location of trees preserved and the proposed measures for
protection, including delineation of tree protection fencing, tree protection
signs, location for material storage, parking, debris storage, and wash-out
area for cement trucks.
         e.   Protection measures for replacement trees being planted in areas
with high deer population.
         f.   The name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of the person
(s) responsible for tree preservation during the course of the project.
         g.   Size, species, number, and location of all replacement trees and
woody shrubs proposed to be planted on the property in accordance with 15-3-6.
G. Significant and Heritage Tree Replacement Calculation and
15-3-7 : Tree Loss Mitigation.
         h.   The outer boundaries shown of all forest areas of one-quarter
acre and larger.
         i.   Indications of the known presence of any tree pests and diseases.
         j.   Locations of standing, dead or diseased significant and heritage
trees.
         k.   Locations of proposed building, structures, and impervious
surfaces.
         l.   Grading, land disturbance, clearing, and trenching limits.
         m.   A three-year tree maintenance and preservation plan.
   D.   Tree replacement escrow. The applicant shall post a tree replacement
escrow with the City. For every heritage tree preserved on site, the escrow may
be reduced by $250.00. The escrow will be held by the City until successful
completion of final planting inspection, assurance that the trees have survived
for at least one growing season, and are covered by at least a one-year
warranty for replacement. The escrow may be held for longer to ensure viability
of trees. Once the escrow is reimbursed to the applicant, it remains the
applicant’s responsibility to maintain the replacement trees for three years
after planting during the three-year maintenance period, and replace any trees
lost during this period.
   E.   Exemptions. The following exemptions shall apply to the requirements
for Forest Management Plans and Tree Replacement Escrow requirements set forth
in this chapter. Applicants may still be subject to tree replacement
requirements as stated in
15-3-6  Section G. Significant and Heritage Tree Replacement Calculation.
      1.   If less than ten (10) total significant and/or heritage trees on the
property are removed, and the removal does not require a building permit,
grading permit, or does not require a planning application, the applicant is
exempt from Forest Management Plan and Escrow requirements but may still be
subject to tree replacement requirements as stated in Section G. Significant
and Heritage Tree Replacement Calculation.
      2.   Interior structure improvements that do not expand the current
footprint of the structure and do not affect surrounding trees or forested
areas.
      3.   Tree removal related to public improvement projects, including but
not limited to, road reconstruction and improvement, parks, infrastructure work
or repair, stormwater treatment projects, and utility work or repair.
      4.   Emergency work to protect public health.
      5.   Removal of hazardous, dead, dying, or diseased trees, unless those
trees were planted as part of a forestry management or other tree replacement
plan, in which case they shall be replaced based on the requirements of the
approved plan.
      6.   Alteration of the forest canopy to improve tree health/diversity
that is recommended as part of a Forest Management Plan.
      7.   Tree removal as part of a City-approved native vegetative community
restoration plan to restore or enhance native woodlands, savannas, prairies, or
wetland areas.
      8.   Removal of non-native trees that the City deems are invasive or
noxious.
      9.   Commercial tree nursery and landscape operations.
      10.   In cases where a tree is deemed a hazard tree as determined by an
ISA Certified Arborist.
   F.   Safeguarding Preserved Trees.
      1.   All development and redevelopment projects in the City shall be
designed with the preservation of the urban forest, natural woodlands, and
significant trees in mind. The following criteria will be considered to ensure
survival of trees scheduled to be preserved:
         a.   Size of lot or project to be developed.
         b.   Tree size.
         c.   Species, role, and health of trees.
         d.   Tree life span.
         e.   Sensitivity to disease.
         f.   Nuisance characteristics.
         g.   Sensitivity to grading and grade change.
         h.   Transplanting potential.
         i.   Effects on the functioning of a development.
      2.   Prior to issuance of a grading or building permit the City may
require one or all of the following measures be added to the Forest Management
Plan in order to safeguard preserved trees:
         a.   Tree protective areas shall be designated at a minimum of the CRZ
of trees or drip line, whichever is greater, whenever possible.
         b.   Layout of the project site utility and grading plans shall
accommodate the forest and tree preservation areas, whenever possible.
         c.   Custom grading, retaining walls, or tree wells should be utilized
to maintain existing grade for preserved trees.
         d.   Suitable tree protection fencing shall be installed in active
areas. Such fencing includes use of orange polyethylene laminar safety fencing,
woven polyethylene fabric (silt fencing), or similar high visibility fencing.
Fencing shall be self-supportive. Tree protection fencing shall be inspected by
City Staff before work begins; and shall be maintained and repaired by the
applicant for the duration of construction.
         e.   Use of passive forms of tree protection may be allowed, such as
continuous heavy-duty rope or flagging (heavy plastic four inches or wider) or
other easily recognized barriers to vehicles and people.
         d.   Active tree protection areas with “Tree Save Area” signs shall be
posted and readable from at least ten feet away.
         e.   Additional protection, signage, and buffer distances shall be
established around Heritage Trees.
         f.   Felling or removing trees shall be done in a direction away from
preserved trees to minimize tree wounding.
         g.   Construction site activities such as parking, material storage,
concrete washout, placement of holes, compaction, construction access,
stockpiling of earth, storage of equipment or building materials, or grading of
any kind, shall be arranged so as not to encroach on tree preservation areas
and CRZ areas of trees to be protected.
         h.   Measures such as deep mulching may be required if root pruning or
root compaction cannot be avoided.
         i.   Identify and prevent oak wilt infection. Treat all known oak wilt
infected areas with current accepted guidelines including root cutting and
removal of infected trees. If pruning oaks is required between April 1 and
October 31, fresh wounds shall be covered with nontoxic tree wound sealant or
latex paint.
      3.   All developments and redevelopment projects in the City shall be
designed to preserve forests and significant trees, where such preservation
would not adversely affect the public health, safety, or welfare of Mendota
Heights residents, businesses, and visitors. The City may require clustering of
buildings, access roads, parking lots, or stormwater facilities and prohibit
removal of all or a part of a forest or of heritage or significant trees.
      4.   If any significant tree designated as preserved in the approved
Forest Management Plan is cut, damaged, or encroached upon during the
construction process without City authorization and if it is determined by the
City that the damaged tree will not survive, the said damaged tree shall be
removed by the applicant at their expense and replacement trees installed at a
rate of two times the tree replacement calculations as described below.
   G.   Significant and Heritage Tree Replacement Calculation.
      1.   If less than seven (7) total significant and/or heritage trees on
the property are removed, the applicant shall replace one tree per significant
or heritage tree removed. Replacement trees shall be a minimum of one caliper
inch in size.
      2.   If seven (7) or more total significant or heritage trees on the
property are removed, the applicant shall mitigate all significant and heritage
tree inches measured at DSH at a rate of 75%. Example: 84 DSH inches removed x
.75 = 63 DSH inches required to be replaced
      3.   For every heritage tree preserved on site, escrow may be reduced by
$250.00. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-7: TREE LOSS MITIGATION:
   A.   The applicant shall mitigate loss of significant and heritage trees by
planting replacement trees in appropriate areas on the property in accordance
with section
15-3-6  G. Significant and Heritage Tree Replacement Calculation, and as
indicated in the applicant’s approved Forest Management Plan, if required.
Trees shall not be planted within 10 feet of property lines without written
permission of the affected adjacent property, nor shall trees be planted at lot
corners in a way that obstructs a driver’s line of sight. If compliance with
the tree replacement requirement is not feasible, the City may approve
alternative tree replacement measures, including the planting of trees at an
alternate site. The alternate site must be public land, and at the choice of
the city. The city may require post-construction tree care.
   B.   In order to preserve diversity and provide protection from tree disease
and pests; where ten or more replacement trees are required, not more than 20
percent shall be of the same family, not more than 10 percent of the same
genus, and not more than 5 percent of the same species, unless approved by the
City. Tree species of the genus Acer shall be limited to 10 percent of total
replacement trees planted, due to its over-abundance in the City’s forest
canopy. A minimum of 50 percent of replacement trees must be species native to
Minnesota or recommended by the Department of Natural Resources or University
of Minnesota Extension. Applicants are encouraged to plant trees that are
recommended by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources at the time of
planting. All replacement trees shall be healthy and free from insect or
disease infestations. When replacement trees are required, replacement trees
shall be no less than a one-caliper inch deciduous or six-foot height conifer
tree unless approved by the City. No more than three consecutive trees of the
same species may be planted in a continuous row, including around corners and
in groupings.
   C.   It is the applicant’s responsibility to maintain the replacement and
preserved trees for at least three years. The applicant is responsible for
replacing any tree that dies during this three-year period. The City may
require additional post-construction tree care mitigation for preserved and
replacement trees.
   D.   Woody plant species are considered invasive, and/or are regulated as
prohibited or restricted under the Minnesota Department of Agriculture’s
noxious weed law are prohibited from City plantings and on development and
redevelopment projects.
   E.   The City may require revision of, or may deny approval of, a Forest
Alteration Permit or a Forest Management Plan that includes any new or emerging
invasive species that is not included in this list. Trees that are overly
susceptible to diseases that cause tree death, such as Dutch Elm Disease or
Emerald Ash Borer, should not be planted unless they are of a resistant variety
or cultivar.
   F>   In addition to the requirements set forth in this Section, replacement
trees should be appropriate for the planting location, including soil,
moisture, and sunlight conditions. Replacement trees shall consist of certified
nursery stock as defined by current Minnesota Statutes and shall be hardy for
USDA plant hardiness zones 4 or 5. Trees shall be planted in accordance with
the American National Standard for Tree Care Operations. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-8: DISEASED TREES:
   A.   The health of trees in the City is threatened by tree pests, which can
result in hazardous trees that cause property damage or personal injury. The
loss of trees, or presence of diseased and hazardous trees on public and
private property depreciates the value of property within the City and impairs
the safety and general welfare of the public. The provisions of this section
are adopted to comply with applicable Minnesota Statutes and as an effort to
control and prevent the spread of tree pests and disease.
   B.   To the extent allowed by Minnesota Statutes, the City may deem any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal, plant pathogen, or plant in the community
threatening to cause significant damage or death to trees in the community to
be a forest pest or a shade tree pest, and prescribe control measures to
effectively eradicate, control, or manage the disease, forest pest or shade
tree pest according to current guidance set by the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture.
   C.   The City may notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the
premise that a diseased or hazard tree exists. The notice may specify required
abatement measures to be taken to abate the nuisance in accordance with City
Code
4-1-5 . When removing and managing diseased trees, property owners shall follow
any diseased tree management plans that are put forth by the City, Dakota
County, or the State of Minnesota and comply with all quarantine requirements
and restrictions.
   D.   If a diseased, nuisance, dead, dying, or Hazard Tree exists within
publicly-owned property or rights-of-way, including boulevard trees, the City
may remove, at any time, diseased, nuisance or hazard trees without the
permission of, or notice to, adjacent property owners. (Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
15-3-9: ENFORCEMENT:
The City shall be responsible for the enforcement of this chapter and determine
any violations. All land use, building, and grading permits shall be suspended
until the applicant has corrected a violation. The City reserves the right to
inspect the permitted site or property at any reasonable time for compliance
with the Forest Management Plan and forest alteration permit. If the City finds
the site in violation, the City may issue a stop work order until conditions
are corrected. Conditions that are not corrected within the required timeframe
may result in forfeiture of escrow, or may be subject to enforcement pursuant
to the City’s Nuisance ordinance or other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 595, 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 4
WETLAND CONSERVATION
SECTION:
15-4-1:    Purpose
15-4-2:    Definitions
15-4-3:    Application Of Provisions
15-4-4:    Application For Wetland Delineation Report Or Wetland Boundary
Determination
15-4-5:    Alterations Within Wetland And Buffer Setbacks
15-4-6:    Vegetation Performance Standards
15-4-7:    Wetland And Buffer Setback Mitigation
15-4-8:    Fees
15-4-9:    Violation; Penalty
15-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter to provide for the protection, preservation,
maintenance, and use of Mendota Heights wetlands and water resource related
areas, to maintain the natural drainage system, to minimize the disturbance
which may result from alteration by earthwork, loss of vegetation, loss of
wildlife and aquatic organisms as a result of the disturbance of the natural
environment, or from excessive sedimentation; to provide for protection of
probable fresh water supplies; and to ensure safety from floods. (1981 Code 402
§ 1; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Applicant means the individual or entity submitting a land use
application to the city.
   B.   Buffer setback means the minimum horizontal distance between a
structure and the nearest edge of a structure and the delineated wetland
boundary.
   C.   Native vegetation means plant species indigenous to or naturalized to
the Dakota County Region of the State of Minnesota or plant species classified
by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources as native in the Minnesota
Native Plant Database. Native Vegetation does not include Weeds as defined by
this Section.
   D.   Non-native vegetation means species not indigenous to or naturalized to
the Dakota County Region of the State of Minnesota by the Department of Natural
Resources.
   E.   WCA means the Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act of 1991, Minnesota
Statutes Sections 103G222-2373. The City of Mendota Heights shall be designated
as the Local Government Unit for the purposes of the WCA.
   F.   Weeds means noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to the
“Minnesota Noxious Weed Law,” Minnesota Statutes Section 18.76 through 18.88,
as amended from time to time. For purposes of this section, Weeds shall not
include dandelions or clover.
   G.   Wetland means the definition as established by the Wetland Conservation
Act and the Army Corps of Engineers, which may be revised or amended from time
to time.
   H.   Wetland map means the city’s wetland map derived or compiled from
available public data from Dakota County or the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources and the National Wetland Inventory (NWI). (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   This Chapter incorporates by reference the WCA and any future
amendments to the WCA. In the event that any requirements of this section are
inconsistent with the WCA, the stricter provisions that provides the most
protection for Wetlands shall apply.
   B.   Any structure erected following the effective date of this Chapter
shall be setback the greater of the following distances:
      1.   The required setbacks from a Wetland are established in Section [
Table 12-4A-4.1 ].
      2.   A minimum of 25 feet from the edge of the delineated Wetland, as
approved by the City.
   C.   Applicability. The Buffer Setback requirements of this Chapter and
Chapter 12 shall apply to all property containing Wetlands in the following
circumstances:
      1.   When any new development activity occurs on the property. For
purposes of this chapter, “new development activity” means:
         a.   Any subdivision, as defined by state law;
         b.   Any site plan review required by Mendota Heights City Code
section [
12-5B-4 ].
         c.   Any planned unit development.
         d.   Construction of a principal building on a vacant lot.
         e.   Redevelopment of a property where all the following conditions
are met:
            (1)   Results in the removal of more than 50 percent of the market
value of the principal structure.
            (2)   The building’s removal is followed by reconstruction (except
as exempted by subsection 3 of this section), and
            (3)   Results in a net increase in the square footage of impervious
surfaces that drain to a Wetland, or results in the relocation of impervious
surfaces closer to a Wetland, or results in changes to drainage patterns
(slopes, meander patterns, etc.) that the Public Works Director determines will
increase the velocity or rate of runoff to a Wetland.
         f.   Any project that involves the draining, filling, excavating, or
altering of a Wetland except if:
            (1)   Less than 50 cubic yards or 5,000 square feet of disturbance
is completed, and
            (2)   The city determines that the project improves drainage
infrastructure and/or the function or value of the Wetland.
         g.   Any other land use application which proposes more than 50 cubic
yards or 5,000 square feet of grading disturbance, which requires city review,
and which is not specified above, including, but not limited to, conditional
use permits, variances, or
         h.   When the proposed activity or grading exceeds 50 cubic yards or
the construction activity involves the disturbance of more than 3,000 square
feet.
         i.   When the proposed activity increases the amount of impervious
surface within 50-feet of the Wetland by more than 1,000 square feet.
   D.   Exemptions. The Buffer Setback requirements of this section shall not
apply to the following:
      1.   Any plat which has received preliminary approval or any other land
use application that has received final approval by the city council prior to
the effective date of this Ordinance.
      2.   Reconstruction of a legal non-conforming structure that was
destroyed by fire or other peril that is permitted to be reconstructed by city
code and state statute.
      3.   Any previously buildable parcel existing prior to the effective date
of this section which is rendered unbuildable under city code because of the
implementation of the Buffer Setback as required by this Chapter. (Ord. 593, 9-
17-2024)
15-4-4: APPLICATION FOR WETLAND DELINEATION REPORT OR WETLAND BOUNDARY
DETERMINATION:
   A.   Any project or land alteration activity that meets the criteria
established in Section [
15-4-3 ] the Applicant must submit the following materials for review and
approval by the city’s designated representative that holds the wetland
delineator certification. When a project requires another Land Use Application
such as a plat, conditional use permit or variance, then the following
materials may be submitted concurrently with the Land Use Application.
      1.   A grading plan (if grading is proposed) including the area and
volume of land disturbance.
      2.   A Wetland delineation report. It is the responsibility of the
Applicant to determine whether Wetlands exist on the property by completing a
Wetland delineation and submitting a Wetland delineation report. The following
shall apply to the Wetland delineation report:
         a.   The report shall delineate and document the boundaries of any
Wetlands on the property in accordance with the WCA requirements.
         b.   The Wetland delineation report must be performed by a certified
Wetland delineator. The Wetland delineation must be performed using the most
current US Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual and be acceptable
to the Natural Resources Coordinator, or their assigns.
         c.   The Wetland delineation must be completed during the established
growing season, or the delineation may be deemed incomplete.
      3.   Certificate of Survey. A certificate of survey or to-scale site plan
describing the proposed activity and showing the Wetland and Buffer Setback
boundaries.
      4.   Landscape Plan. A landscape plan for the Buffer Setback area, if any
disturbance is proposed.
      5.   A plan identifying the measures to protect wetlands during the
construction process. Measures may include silt fencing, snow fencing, signage,
or other measures agreed to by the city.
   B.   Exemptions: An Applicant may request an exemption for the requirements
to prepare a full Wetland delineation report if:
      1.   The Public Works Director and the Natural Resources Coordinator
determine that the project or land disturbance activity will not adversely
affect any potential Wetland on the project site.
      2.   An official Boundary determination is made for that portion of the
Wetland closest to the Project or land disturbance activity and the Project
will exceed the Buffer Setback requirements.
   C.   Variance. A Variance from the requirements of this Chapter may be
granted by the city council in accordance with the variance provisions
established in city code Title 12: Zoning, so long as the variance does not
violate the WCA or any other applicable state statutes or rules. (Ord. 593, 9-
17-2024)
15-4-5: ALTERATIONS WITHIN WETLAND AND BUFFER SETBACKS:
   A.   The area within Wetlands and the Buffer Setbacks shall be preserved
predominantly in their natural states, except those exemptions stated within
this Chapter.
   B.   Any alterations within the Wetland and Buffer Setbacks, except the
permitted activities stated below, are prohibited, including but not limited to
the installation or placement of structures and impervious surfaces, the
operation of construction machinery, the destruction or removal of trees,
shrubs or other vegetation, the introduction of any Non-native Vegetation, any
mowing, dredging or excavation activities and the placement or storage of any
fill material, manure, or trash and the application of fertilizer. The
following activities are permitted:
      1.   Activities described within a Buffer Setback area landscaping or
mitigation plan, or a WCA application that was approved by the City.
      2.   The removal of Non-native Vegetation
      3.   Necessary alterations related to the establishment and maintenance
of the native vegetation within the Buffer Setback area.
      4.   Proposed alterations which are determined by the city to be
consistent with the vegetative standards and purposes of this Chapter.
      5.   The removal of dead or diseased trees, removal of any root structure
for potential impacts is subject to WCA rules.
      6.   The installation of utility poles, underground utility lines, light
poles, traffic regulator signs and signals, mailboxes, and other equipment that
is determined by the City to provide an essential public service.
      7.   The installation of public and private flood control structures,
ponding and drainage facilities and associated accessory appurtenances as
approved by the City.
      8.   The installation of environmental monitoring or control facilities,
including those related to water quality and wildlife regulation,
      9.   The mowing of or installation of permeable pathways not to exceed
four feet in width to allow reasonable access to the Wetland.
      10.   The installation of boardwalks, docks, or other structures to allow
reasonable access to the Wetland. These structures shall not exceed four feet
in width or have poses greater than eight inches in diameter.
      11.   The installation of public trails, if required. The temporary and
permanent trail disturbance shall not exceed eight feet in width.
   C.   Any WCA required wetland banking or replacement plan shall be reviewed
and approved by the city council. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-6: VEGETATION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buffer Setback areas shall meet the following vegetation performance standards:
   A.   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in a Buffer Setback area,
disturbance is allowed only with approval from the city. A Buffer Setback area
will be considered to have acceptable natural vegetation if it:
      1.   Is composed of less than 25 percent Weeds;
      2.   Is covered by Native Vegetation with less than five percent exposed
soil. Exposed soils may exceed 5% in cases where native trees and shrub canopy
closure of 75% or greater exists; and
      3.   Does not contain maintained turf grass.
   B.   Where a Buffer Setback area or a portion thereof is not considered
acceptable or is to be disturbed, a Buffer landscape plan must be submitted to
the Natural Resource Coordinator for approval. At a minimum the landscaping
plan shall include the following information:
      1.   A plan sheet that shows the location of the Buffer Zone area. The
plan must identify the buffer areas that are acceptable and the areas that have
been identified as unacceptable or disturbed. The city will require that all
acceptable buffer areas be protected with silt fence during construction to
protect them from erosion and disturbance.
      2.   The species, planting and seeding locations for the Buffer Zones for
the unacceptable and/or disturbed areas. The plan shall include a minimum of
four species of native grasses and five species of native forbs and a cover
crop. The seed mix shall consist of at least 15 pounds of pure live seed (PLS)
per acre and the cover crop shall be at least 20 pounds per acre.
      3.   Detailed specifications that describe sequencing, scheduling,
materials, installation of maintenance execution for the seeding, planting or
Weed removal.
   C.   In cases where a Buffer Setback landscaping plan is required, the city
may require an approved form of a financial guarantee. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-7: WETLAND AND BUFFER SETBACK MITIGATION:
   A.   In cases where a Wetland or Buffer Setback alteration is approved by
the city and mitigation is required, the mitigation must result in equal or
improved Wetland function and value. The following standards shall apply for
any Wetland or Buffer Setback mitigation:
      1.   Wetland mitigation must conform to the requirements of the WCA.
      2.   In cases where an approved WCA Application allows Wetland impacts,
Buffer Setback areas shall be required on the fill slope of the impact, but
additional fill shall not be permitted to meet the Buffer Setback requirements
of this Chapter. Instead, expansion of the Buffer Setback area shall be
required elsewhere along the edge of the Wetland to meet the overall area of
the required buffer.
      3.   The area of the Buffer Setback area required for Wetlands created is
subject to an approved WCA Permit Application and shall meet or exceed the area
of required Buffer Setbacks by this Chapter and Section [Table 12-4A-1.1] for
the impacted Wetland.
      4.   Wetland and Buffer Setback area plantings that are completed for
mitigation shall meet the vegetative requirements of this Chapter.
      5.   Buffer Setback areas may be utilized for Wetland mitigation credits
if they meet the requirements of the WCA. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-8: FEES:
   A.   Fees: A base fee as set by resolution of the city council shall be paid
by all applicants for review of a Wetland Delineation Report.
   B.   Escrows: All applicants shall submit an escrow as determined by the
city council to cover the staff and consultant costs to review the Wetland
Delineation Report and any associated mitigation plan. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-4-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (1981 Code 402 § 13; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 5
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
15-5-1:    Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact And Purpose
15-5-2:    General Provisions
15-5-3:    Establishment Of Zoning Districts
15-5-4:    Floodway District (FW)
15-5-5:    Flood Fringe District (FF)
15-5-6:    Reserved
15-5-7:    Subdivisions
15-5-8:    Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, And Bridges
15-5-9:    Manufactured Homes, Manufactured Home Parks, And Placement Of
Recreational Vehicles
15-5-10: Administration
15-5-11: Nonconforming Uses
15-5-12: Penalties For Violation
15-5-13: Amendments
15-5-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses in
flood hazard areas by provisions contained herein.
   B.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Minnesota has,
in Minnesota statutes chapters 103F and 462 delegated the responsibility to
local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the city council of the city of Mendota Heights, Minnesota, does
ordain as follows.
   C.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   Effects Of Flooding: The flood hazard areas of the city of Mendota
Heights, Minnesota, are subject to periodic inundation which results in
potential loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures or
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.   Methods Used To Analyze Flood Hazards: This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the Minnesota department of natural resources.
      3.   National Flood Insurance Program Compliance: This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood insurance
program codified as 44 code of federal regulations parts 59-78, as amended, so
as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the national flood insurance
program. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the city of Mendota Heights shown on the official
zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as being located within the
boundaries of the floodway and flood fringe districts.
   B.   Establishment Of Official Zoning Map: The official zoning map together
with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The attached material shall include the “Flood
Insurance Study, Dakota County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas”, flood
insurance rate map panels therein numbered 27037C0014E, 27037C0017E,
27037C0018E, 27037C0019E, 27037C0036E, 27037C0080E, and 27037C0081E and the
flood insurance rate map index (map number 27037CIND1A), all dated December 2,
2011, and prepared by the federal emergency management agency. The official
zoning map shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and the zoning
administrator.
   C.   Interpretation:
      1.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      2.   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the zoning administrator, the board of adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or on the date of the first national flood insurance program map
showing the area within the 100-year floodplain if earlier, and other available
technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the board of
adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   E.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city of Mendota Heights or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   F.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   G.   Annexations: The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
into subsection B of this section may include floodplain areas that lie outside
of the corporate boundaries of the city of Mendota Heights at the time of
adoption hereof. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the
city of Mendota Heights after the date of adoption hereof, the newly annexed
floodplain lands shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately
upon the date of annexation into the city of Mendota Heights. (Ord. 439, 11-1-
2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Districts:
      1.   Floodway District: The floodway district shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in subsection
15-5-2 B of this chapter.
      2.   Flood Fringe District: The flood fringe district shall include those
areas designated as floodway fringe. The flood fringe district shall include
those areas shown on the flood insurance rate map as adopted in subsection
15-5-2 B of this chapter as being within zones AE but being located outside of
the floodway.
   B.   Compliance: No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, repaired,
maintained or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the
jurisdiction of this chapter. All uses not listed as permitted uses or
conditional uses in this code are prohibited. In addition, a caution is
provided here that:
      1.   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are prohibited by this code.
      2.   Modifications, repair and maintenance, additions, structural
alterations, normal maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are
regulated by the general provisions of this chapter and specifically section
15-5-11  of this chapter.
      3.   As built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and floodproofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in section
15-5-10  of this chapter. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-4: FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW):
   A.   Permitted Uses, Standards For Floodway And Flood Fringe Permitted Uses:
      1.   Permitted uses shall be any use of land which does not involve a
structure, a fence, an addition to the outside dimensions to an existing
structure (including a fence) or an obstruction to flood flows such as fill,
excavation, or storage of materials or equipment.
      2.   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   B.   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Conditional uses shall be permissible in the underlying zoning
district and shall have low flood damage potential.
      2.   Structures accessory to the uses listed in subsections A and B3
through B8 of this section.
      3.   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      4.   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water control
structures.
      5.   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines.
      6.   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
      7.   Placement of fill or construction of fences.
      8.   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes, and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures.
   C.   Standards For Floodway And Flood Fringe Conditional Uses:
      1.   All Uses: No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including
fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an
increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      2.   Procedures And Standards: All floodway and flood fringe conditional
uses shall be subject to the procedures and standards contained in subsection
15-5-10 D of this chapter.
      3.   Fill:
         a.   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain and flood fringe shall not cause a net decrease in
storage capacity without providing compensatory storage. This shall be
determined by a professional engineer, or satisfied through a no-rise
certification. If compensatory storage is needed, creation of determined
adequate storage shall be created before the proposed fill is placed, unless it
is demonstrated that doing so is impractical and that placement of fill and
creation of compensatory storage can be achieved concurrently.
         b.   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain and Flood Fringe shall be protected from erosion by
vegetative cover, mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         c.   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway and flood fringe unless a long term site development
plan is submitted which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to
the plan.
         d.   As an alternative and consistent with subsection C3b of this
section, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow
temporary, on site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused
an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the
governing body has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of
the materials from the floodway and flood fringe based upon the flood warning
time available. The conditional use permit must be title registered with the
property in the office of the county recorder.
      4.   Accessory Structures:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         b.   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of floodwaters:
            (1)   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
            (2)   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         c.   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classifications in the state building code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classification
in the state building code provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment, does not exceed five hundred (500) square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards:
            (1)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
            (2)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed; and
            (3)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two (2) “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot (1') above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure.
Using human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not
satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
      5.   Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
         a.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         b.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      6.   Structural Works For Flood Control: Structural works for flood
control that will change the course, current or cross section of protected
wetlands or public waters shall be subject to the provisions of Minnesota
statute, chapter 103G. Community wide structural works for flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in
the floodway.
      7.   Structures In Floodway: A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in
the floodway shall not cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and
the technical analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both
sides of a stream. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 556, 4-21-2020; Ord. 593, 9-
17-2024)
15-5-5: FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF):
   A.   Permitted Uses: Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
   B.   Standards For Flood Fringe Permitted Uses:
      1.   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than two feet (2') below the regulatory flood
protection elevation, unless protection via floodproofing is provided, and the
fill shall extend at suchelevation at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the
outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      2.   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet at its largest projection may be internally floodproofed in
accordance with subsection
15-5-4 C(4) of this chapter.
      3.   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   C.   Standards For All Flood Fringe Uses:
      1.   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation - FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      2.   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
      3.   Commercial uses: Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four (4)
upon occurrence of the regional flood.
      4.   Manufacturing and industrial uses: Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
subsection C3 of this section. In considering permit applications, due
consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires
that it be located in floodplain areas. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 556, 4-
21-2020; Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-6: RESERVED:
15-5-7: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Review Criteria: No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside of the floodway district at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access
both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two
feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all subdivisions
in the floodplain, the floodway and flood fringe districts boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   B.   Removal Of Special Flood Hazard Area Designation: The federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the special
flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated on fill
above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific
fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi- structure or
multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated prior to the
initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard area
designation will be requested. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-8: PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES
   A.   Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be floodproofed in accordance with the state building code or elevated to
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   B.   Public Transportation Facilities: Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall comply with sections
15-5-4  and
15-5-5  of this chapter. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be provided where failure or interruption of these transportation
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   C.   On Site Sewage Treatment And Water Supply Systems: Where public
utilities are not provided: 1) on site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and 2) new
or replacement on site sewage treatment systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into floodwaters and they shall not be subject to impairment or
contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment system designed in
accordance with the state’s current statewide standards for on site sewage
treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-9: MANUFACTURED HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, AND PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Manufactured homes are not permissible under this title.
   B.   Licensed and operable recreation vehicles are allowed only within
residential districts and shall not be stored in floodplain areas.
      1.   No structural additions or accessory structures may be attached to
recreational vehicles in any zoning district. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord.
593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-10: ADMINISTRATION
   A.   Zoning Administrator: A zoning administrator or other official
designated by the governing body shall administer and enforce this chapter. If
the zoning administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter
the zoning administrator shall notify the person responsible for such violation
in accordance with the procedures stated in section
15-5-12  of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit issued by the zoning administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land; prior to
the construction of a dam, fence, or on site septic system; prior to the change
or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that
has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
      2.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit shall be made to
the zoning administrator on forms furnished by the zoning administrator and
shall include the following where applicable: plans drawn to scale showing the
nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the lot; existing or proposed
structures, fill, or storage of materials; and the location of the foregoing in
relation to the stream channel.
      3.   State And Federal Permits: Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the zoning
administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
      4.   Certificate Of Zoning Compliance For A New, Altered, Or
Nonconforming Use: It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the zoning
administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
      5.   Construction And Use To Be As Provided On Applications, Plans,
Permits, Variances And Certificates of Zoning Compliance: Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by section
15-5-12 of this chapter.
      6.   Certification: The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
      7.   Record Of First Floor Elevation: The zoning administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The zoning administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
floodproofed.
      8.   Notifications For Watercourse Alterations: The zoning administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the commissioner
of the department of natural resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota statute,
chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the commissioner of
natural resources. A copy of said notification shall also be submitted to the
Chicago regional office of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      9.   Notification To FEMA When Physical Changes Increase Or Decrease The
100-Year Flood Elevation: As soon as is practicable, but not later than six (6)
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the zoning
administrator shall notify the Chicago regional office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
   C.   Board Of Adjustment:
      1.   Rules: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
      2.   Administrative Review: The board of adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      3.   Variances: The board of adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the board of adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
federal emergency management agency must be satisfied:
         a.   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         b.   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon: 1) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Hearings: Upon filing with the board of adjustment of an appeal from
a decision of the zoning administrator, or an application for a variance, the
board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The board of adjustment
shall submit by mail to the commissioner of natural resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
commissioner will receive at least ten (10) days’ notice of the hearing.
      5.   Decisions: The board of adjustment shall arrive at a decision on
such appeal or variance within sixty (60) days. In passing upon an appeal, the
board of adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning administrator or
other public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance the
board of adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in subsection D6 of this section, which are in conformity with
the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter punishable under section
15-5-12  of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be
forwarded by mail to the commissioner of natural resources within ten (10) days
of such action.
      6.   Appeals: Appeals from any decision of the board of adjustment may be
made, and as specified in this community’s official controls and also by
Minnesota statutes.
      7.   Flood Insurance Notice And Recordkeeping: The zoning administrator
shall notify the applicant for a variance that: a) the issuance of a variance
to construct a structure below the base flood level will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars
($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage and b) such
construction below the 100-year or regional flood level increases risks to life
and property. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in
its annual or biennial report submitted to the administrator of the national
flood insurance program.
   D.   Conditional Uses: The city council shall hear and decide applications
for conditional uses permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be
submitted to the zoning administrator who shall forward the application for
consideration.
      1.   Hearings: Upon filing with the zoning administrator an application
for a conditional use permit, the zoning administrator shall submit by mail to
the commissioner of natural resources a copy of the application for proposed
conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the commissioner will receive
at least ten (10) days’ notice of the hearing.
      2.   Decisions: The city council shall arrive at a decision on a
conditional use within sixty (60) days. In granting a conditional use permit
the city council shall prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards which
are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
punishable under section
15-5-12  of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use
permits shall be forwarded by mail to the commissioner of natural resources
within ten (10) days of such action.
      3.   Procedures To Be Followed By The City Council In Passing On
Conditional Use Permit Applications Within All Floodplain Districts:
         a.   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following
information and additional information as deemed necessary by the city council
for determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
            (1)   Plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions
and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, floodproofing measures, and the relationship of the above to the
location of the stream channel; and
            (2)   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         b.   Transmit one copy of the information described in subsection D3a
of this section to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters.
         c.   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the city council shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site
and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood
hazard.
      4.   Factors Upon Which The Decision Of The City Council Shall Be Based:
In passing upon conditional use applications, the city council shall consider
all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         f.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
         g.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
         h.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
         l.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
      5.   Time For Acting On Application: The city council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within sixty (60) days from receiving
a completed application.
      6.   Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the city council
shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
         b.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation.
         c.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed
restrictions.
         d.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures.
         e.   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the state building
code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area. (Ord. 439, 11-1-2011; amd.
Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-11: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined by this chapter shall be subject to
the following provisions:
      1.   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a
way that increases its nonconformity.
      2.   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 floodproofing
classifications) allowable in the state building code, except as further
restricted below.
      3.   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure unless the conditions of
this section are satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and
additions must include all costs such as construction materials and a
reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous
and proposed alterations and additions exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, then the structure must meet the standards of
section
15-5-4  or
15-5-5  of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
      4.   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The assessor shall notify the zoning administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of twelve (12)
months.
      5.   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in subsection
15-5-3 B(2) of this chapter, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing
new uses or new structures in section
15-5-4  or
15-5-5  of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
      6.   If a “substantial improvement” occurs, as defined in subsection
15-5-3 B(2) of this chapter, from any combination of a building addition to the
outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration, or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of section
15-5-4  or
15-5-5  of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively. (Ord. 439,
11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-12: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
   A.   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   B.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city of Mendota Heights from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. Such actions may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   In responding to a suspected chapter violation, the zoning
administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after the fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the national flood insurance program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct chapter violations to the extent
possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the national flood
insurance program.
      2.   When a chapter violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the zoning administrator, the zoning administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate department of natural
resources and federal emergency management agency regional office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      3.   The zoning administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the zoning administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the zoning administrator may either: a) issue an order
identifying the corrective actions that must be made within a specified time
period to bring the use or structure into compliance with the official
controls; or b) notify the responsible party to apply for an after the fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed
thirty (30) days.
      4.   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
zoning administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The zoning administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter. (Ord. 439,
11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-5-13: AMENDMENTS:
The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be removed from
floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or
that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood
protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the commissioner of natural
resources if he determines that, through other measures, lands are adequately
protected for the intended use.
All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official zoning
map, must be submitted to and approved by the commissioner of natural resources
prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the federal
emergency management agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must
receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The commissioner of natural
resources must be given ten (10) days’ written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of
the chapter amendment or technical study under consideration. (Ord. 439, 11-1-
2011; amd. Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 6
SHORELAND ORDINANCE
SECTION:
15-6-1:    In General
15-6-2:    Shoreland Ordinance
15-6-1: IN GENERAL:
Reserved
15-6-2: SHORELAND ORDINANCE:
   A.   Intent and Purpose. The city has determined that a shoreland ordinance
will help protect surface water quality, near shore habitat, and the shoreland
aesthetics. The city intends to adopt a tailored ordinance after it has studied
the specific characteristics of the city’s shoreland in coordination with the
other chapters contained in this Environmental Standards ordinance.
   B.   State Rules adopted by Reference. Until the city completes its study
and adopts its regulations, it herein incorporates by reference the applicable
standards and regulations established by Minnesota Rules Chapter 6120.
      1.   Where any rule or regulation is in conflict with any other provision
of this Environmental Standards ordinance, the more restrictive standard shall
apply. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
CHAPTER 7
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
15-7-1:    Chloride Reduction
15-7-2:    Temporary Keeping Of Goats For Prescribed Grazing And Invasive
Vegetation Removal
15-7-3:    Shade Tree Program
15-7-4:    Weeds And Noxious Vegetation
15-7-1: CHLORIDE REDUCTION:
   A.   Definitions. The following words, terms, phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      1.   Anti-icing means the application of a liquid deicer prior to the
onset of a snow event.
      2.   Best Management Practice (BMP) means structural, vegetative, or
managerial practices used to treat, prevent, or reduce water pollution.
      3.   Certified Salt Applicator means an individual who apples deicer and
has completed Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Smart Salting training (Level
1 or 2).
      4.   Deicer means any substance used to melt snow and ice or used for
it’s anti-icing effects.
      5.   Winter Maintenance Professional means an individual who applies
deicer for hire (i.e. snow plow drivers, salt truck drivers).
   B.    Intent and purpose.
      1.   The removal of snow and ice from roadways is essential to both
public safety and to the local economy and in order to protect the public
safety, during and after winter storm events, the use of pavement deicing
chemical is a widely accepted means of keeping roadways passable; and
      2.   Pavement deicing is typically accomplished through the use of
deicers which can be corrosive to vehicles, roadway surfaces, and bridges and
has been found to have adverse effects on the surface waters, groundwater and
to environmentally sensitive areas; and
      3.   The restoration of surface and ground water quality and ecosystems
in such areas can be very difficult and costly, if not impossible to
rehabilitate through reverse osmosis, once the events of contamination occur;
and
      4.   Proper utilization and management of deicing materials is critical
to ensure that the environmental impacts of related practices are reduced to
the maximum extent possible; and
      5.   Negative environmental impacts may occur when salt and other deicers
are not properly stored and transported; and
      6.   One of the primary sources of chloride entering the ground water is
salt spillage that is either plowed of washed from maintenance yards, unloading
and loading areas and it is necessary to regulate all persons engaged in the
storage and use of bulk deicing materials on their property and elsewhere in
order to reduce the costly impacts of such use to the surrounding vegetation,
surface water and ground water; and
   C.    Occupational Licensure for Winter Maintenance Professionals
      1.   Applicability. No person will engage in the operation of a winter
maintenance business for the private operation of a snowplowing service or the
use or storage of salt and other deicing materials, or to assist others in the
same for the purpose of managing ice and snow from private roadways, parking
areas, and sidewalks on commercial, industrial, institutional, office, multi-
family, and private single-family residential dwellings without being in
compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter,
      2.   Certification Required.
         a.   All persons engaged in the operation of a winter maintenance
business for the private operation of a snowplowing service or the use or
storage of salt or other deicing materials must employ an individual who
possesses current Smart Salting Level 1 and Level 2 Certification from the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. This individual must be responsible for the
application of appropriate deicing material at the proper amount and rate; the
employment of correct procedures for temperature and conditions; accurate
record-keeping and data recordation; and calibration of equipment annually. In
the event of a major storm emergency, the licensing official may exempt winter
maintenance professionals from the requirements of this section for services
completed under contract with the City of Mendota Heights.
      3.   Deicer Storage Requirements.
         a.   All persons must employ best management practices to minimize the
discharge of polluted runoff from salt and deicer storage and application as
follows:
            (1)   Designated salt and deicer storage areas must be covered or
indoors.
            (2)   Designated salt and deicer storage areas must be located on
an impervious surface; and
            (3)   Implementation of practices to reduce exposure when
transferring material in designated salt and deicer storage areas (e.g.,
sweeping, diversions, and/or containment).
      4.    Deicer Bulk Storage Facility Regulations.
         a.   Applicability.
            (1)   The following sections apply to all indoor and outdoor bulk
deicer storage facilities (temporary and permanent) including salt piles, salt
bag storage, sand piles and other storage of deicing materials. Bulk storage,
as regulated by this chapter, is defined as storage of any material used for
deicing and/or traction during winter conditions that is more than five tons in
solid form (or 1,000 gallons in liquid form).
         b.   General Requirements.
            (1)   Indoor operations for the storage of deicing materials must
be provided wherever possible in order to prevent such materials from being
affected by rain, snow and melt water.
            (2)   All salt, sand and other deicing materials stored outdoors
must be covered at all times.
               (A)   When not using a permanent roof, a waterproof impermeable,
flexible cover must be placed over all storage piles (to protect against
precipitation and surface water runoff). The cover must prevent runoff and
leachate from being generated by the outdoor storage piles. The cover must be
secured to prevent removal by wind or other storm events. Piles must be formed
in a conical shape and covered as necessary to prevent leaching.
               (B)   Any roof leaks, tears or damage should be temporarily
repaired during winter to reduce the entrance of precipitation. Permanent
repairs must be completed prior to the next winter season.
         c.   Facility Siting.
            (1)   The facility must be in close proximity to the area in which
the deicing materials are to be used, if practical.
            (2)   Each facility must be located outside of floodplains and 300
feet from lakes, streams, ditches, storm drains, manholes, catch basins,
wetlands and any other areas likely to absorb runoff. A facility must not be
located in close proximity to surface water features, water supplies, wells or
drywells.
            (3)   A facility must be located on impermeable surfaces.
            (4)   The property slope must be away from the facility’s salt,
deicer, and sand storage area.
            (5)   Salt vulnerable/intolerant natural areas should be avoided as
storage facilities to the extent possible. Where they cannot be avoided,
specific measures should be instituted to protect vulnerable areas. Salt
vulnerable/intolerable natural areas include, but are not limited to:
               (A)   Areas with salt sensitive vegetation.
               (B)   Areas serving as a source of drinking water (surface water
and ground water).
               (C)   Areas with bodies of water with low dilution, low volume
or salt sensitive species.
               (D)   Areas associated with ground water recharge zones or
shallow water table, with medium to high permeable soils.
         d.   Snow Piles
            (1)   Snow piles must be located downslope from salt and deicer
storage areas to prevent the snow melt from flowing through storage areas and
carrying material to the nearest drainage system or waterway.
         e.   Deicer Tuck Wash Water
            (1)   Deicer- and salt-containing truck wash water must be
captured, treated, and recycled for use as saltbrine in pre-wetting and anti-
icing activities.
         f.   Transfer of Materials
            (1)   Practices must be implemented in order to reduce exposure
(e.g., sweeping, diversions, and/or containment when transferring salt or other
deicing material.
   D.    Land Disturbance Permitting.
      1.   Chloride Management
         a.   An applicant for a permit for land-disturbing activity on
property other than individual single-family home sites must provide a plan for
post construction management of chloride use on the site that includes, at a
minimum:
            (1)   Designation of an individual authorized to implement the
chloride-use plan; and
            (2)   Designation of a Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Smart
Salting-certified salt applicator engaged in the implementation of the
chloride-use plan for the site.
   E.   Parking Lot, Sidewalk and Private Road Sweeping Requirements.
      1.   Sweeping of Parking Lots, Sidewalk, and Private Roads
         a.   Every owner or occupant of any dwelling or other residential
building, proprietor or lessee of any business, commercial or public premises,
or [insert other entities as appropriate such as homeowner’s associations]
within the City of Mendota Heights, must conform to ice and snow removal
specified under this section [12-7-1]. If dry deicing material is spread, it
must be properly swept and disposed of immediately after snow melt. If an
owner, occupant, proprietor or lessee neglects or refuses to sweep excess
deicing material, the City of Mendota Heights may sweep such material or
authorize some person to do the same on behalf of the City of Mendota Heights.
The City of Mendota Heights, in its sole discretion, may issue notices of
violation to an owner, lessee, proprietor, or occupant for violations of this
section. (Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-7-2: TEMPORARY KEEPING OF GOATS FOR PRESCRIBED GRAZING AND INVASIVE
VEGETATION REMOVAL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to establish conditions under
which the temporary and periodic use of a limited number of goats for invasive
and noxious vegetation control is permitted and to establish the requirements
for doing so in order to protect the environment and the health, safety, and
welfare of the general population.
   B.   Prescribed Goat Grazing Permit Required: No goat may be kept,
maintained, or harbored on any property in the city unless a goat grazing
permit has been approved and issued. A permit may be granted only for:
      1.   A parcel or lot of record that is 0.5 acres or more in size; or
      2.   A prescribed grazing area located on more than one parcel or lot
provided the grazing areas on each parcel/lot are contiguous and an aggregate
of 0.5 acres or more in size.
   C.   Application for Permit: The applicant must submit the following
information for the request to be considered.
      1.   The applicant shall complete an application form provided by the
City and filed with the City Clerk. The applicant shall also pay the
application fee for the permit which shall be established by the City fee
schedule. Permit fees shall not be prorated or refundable.
      2.   A detailed site plan of the premises on which prescribed grazing is
sought to occur, including the location and the dimensions of the proposed
grazing area, a list of the vegetation existing on the site and sought to be
controlled by the prescribed grazing.
      3.   The full name and address of the following persons:
         a.   The applicant; and
         b.   The owner(s) of the premises on which prescribed goat grazing is
sought to occur and for which the permit would apply.
      4.   The street address of the premises on which prescribed grazing is
sought to occur and for which the permit would apply.
      5.   The number of goats to be kept on the premises under the permit, not
to exceed two (2) goats per every one-tenth (0.10) acre of the prescribed
grazing area.
      6.   A list of person(s) owning, providing, managing and monitoring the
goats, including their full name, address, and twenty-four (24)-hour contact
information accompanied by evidence of liability insurance as required by this
Section.
      7.   The type of fencing to be used for the required enclosure, and date
the temporary fence will be installed.
      8.   Date the goats will arrive on the premises for which the permit
would apply, and the latest date the goats will be removed from the premises
for which the permit would apply.
      9.   A statement certifying whether the property’s homeowners’
association rules, if any, prohibit the keeping of goats on the property for
which the permit is sought.
      10.   The signature of the owner(s) of the premises or a homeowners’
association board officers where the prescribed grazing will occur.
      11.   Any other and further information as the City deems necessary.
   D.   Granting or Denying Issuance of Permit: The City may grant a permit
under this Section provided the application filed demonstrates compliance with
the requirements of this section. The City shall deny a permit hereunder for
any of the following reasons:
      1.   The application is incomplete or contains false, fraudulent, or
deceptive statements.
      2.   The applicant does not or has not complied with one or more of the
provisions of this Section.
      3.   The premises for which the permit is sought, including, but not
limited to, the proposed grazing area, is not in compliance with any provisions
of this subdivision, other City Code provisions or state laws relating to
zoning, health, fire, building, or safety.
      4.   The applicant or owner of the premises where the prescribed grazing
is to occur has been previously convicted of a violation under this Section
within the past two (2) years.
      5.   The owner of the goats has violated any provision hereunder, or on
more than two prior occasions, the owner’s goats have been found running at
large.
   E.   Duration of Permit: The duration of a permit under this section shall
be as follows:
      1.   Prescribed grazing shall not be permitted for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days. No more than three (3) prescribed grazing permits may be
issued within one (1) calendar year for the same property. There shall be a
minimum of thirty (30) days between the expiration of the first permit issued
and the second permit issued in a twelve (12) month period.
   F.   Conditions of Permit: The keeping of goats is permitted pursuant to a
permit granted under this Section, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Transferability of Permit: A permit issued hereunder shall be
nontransferable and shall be solely for the property listed on the permit.
      2.   Liability Insurance: The provider or owner of the goat(s) to be
utilized under the permit shall have and maintain insurance coverage for claims
arising from prescribed grazing in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000) per occurrence and two million dollars ($2,000,000) general
aggregate and shall provide to the City proof of the required insurance
coverage prior to issuance of the permit. The City shall have no liability for
any damages that may be caused by goats kept on a property pursuant to a
prescribed grazing permit. The permit holder shall be responsible for any
damage caused by goats used for prescribed grazing purposes.
      3.   Monitoring: Goat provider or owner must have staff available to
respond to any emergency complaints or concerns at all time of the day or
night. Applicant will furnish an emergency contact number when applying for any
permit.
      4.   Right-of-Entry for Inspection: The premises for which a permit is
issued shall, at all reasonable times, be open to inspection by the city staff
to determine compliance with the permit, other City Code provisions and state
laws relating to zoning, health, fire, building, or safety.
      5.   Number of Goats Permitted: No more than two (2) goats per every one-
tenth (0.10) acre of the prescribed grazing area shall be on the premises at
one time under the permit.
      6.   Proper Enclosures: The prescribed grazing area shall be fully and
securely enclosed with proper enclosures, and fully maintained for the duration
of the prescribed grazing permit, as required and provided herein. Fencing must
be designed to prevent escape by goats and to protect the goats from the
intrusion of other predatory animals. All sides of the enclosure(s) shall be of
sufficient height and the bottom of the enclosures shall be constructed or
secured in a manner as to prevent the goats from escaping over or under the
enclosure(s). The prescribed grazing activity shall be fully and properly
enclosed at all times. It is unlawful and a violation of the permit for any
goat to be allowed to run at large during the duration of this permit. An
enclosure shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Permanent enclosures: Fences and structures constructed to
enclose prescribed grazing goats, but intended to remain at the expiration of
the prescribed grazing activity, shall comply with the regulations for the
zoning district in which the prescribed grazing is located and shall be
permitted separately from the prescribed grazing activity.
         b.   Temporary enclosures:
            (1)   Temporary fencing and structures for the sole purpose of
enclosing prescribed grazing goats shall be allowed for the duration of the
prescribed grazing. All temporary fencing or structures shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the removal of the goats from the premises as required under
the permit;
            (2)   Temporary fences must not exceed six-feet (6') in height;
            (3)   Temporary fences may be electric or electrified as specified
in the approved prescribed grazing permit. Where electric fences are used, a
double fence system with a non-electric outer fence, maintained a minimum of
three (3) feet from the electric fence, is required to serve as a safety
barrier to reduce the possibility of the public coming in contact with the
electric fence. If an existing natural barrier or permanent structure exist as
to prevent contact with or serve as a barrier to the electric fence, then the
second outer fence may not be required for the applicable segment of fencing;
and
            (4)   The outer fence may be allowed up to the property line of the
premises on which the permit applies, and shall not be located within any
public or private right-of-way.
      7.   Signage, Temporary: The permit holder shall install and maintain
temporary signs on the premises for the duration of the permit as follows:
         a.   All signs must be located on each side of the enclosed area and
visible to the public;
         b.   The signs must state the purpose of the goats and enclosure, and
provide any caution or warning message in a manner that is visible to the
public;
         c.   The signs must contain emergency contact information of the owner
of the goat(s);
         d.   The signs shall be setback a minimum of ten (10) feet from
property line if freestanding, or placed on the enclosure fence;
         e.   All signs shall be removed when goats are removed from the
premises; and
         f.   Any electric or electrified fence in association with prescribed
grazing must have a warning sign posted on every boundary of the enclosure at
least every fifty (50) feet along each side of the fence. The warning sign
shall clearly identify the electric fence. No single sign shall exceed four (4)
square feet in area. Each sign shall be clearly visible on the approach to the
fence and be posted on or within one (1) foot of the electric or electrified
fence.
      8.   Shelter: Temporary shelters for the goats may be allowed as per the
discretion of the provider.
      9.   Herd Specifics: Only females, neutered male goats, or unneutered
male goats less than six months old that accompany female goats are allowed.
      10.   Odor and Cleanliness: The property must be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition so as to be free from offensive odors, fly breeding, dust,
and general nuisance conditions.
      11.   Natural Resources Protection: Prescribed grazing shall not
adversely affect significant natural resources. Prescribed grazing activities
shall comply with the following:
         a.   Prescribed grazing activities shall comply with the best
management practices established by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture,
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, Dakota County Soil and Water
Conservation District, and all other pertinent agencies;
         b.   Prescribed grazing activities shall not impair water quality as
defined by the Federal Clean Water Act;
         c.   Threatened or endangered plant species shall be protected from
grazing activities; and
         d.   No goats may be brought onto a property that is known to have the
Invasive Jumping Worm (Amynthas Z species).
      12.   Conservation Easements: If the proposed prescribed grazing area is
within a conservation easement, all requirements of the conservation easement
must be met. If the terms of the conservation easements do not allow prescribed
grazing, then the permit will be denied.
   G.   Feeding of Goats: No supplemental feeding of grain based feed or foods
will be allowed, except for vitamin or mineral supplements. All goats on the
premises shall be provided with and have daily access to fresh drinking water.
   H.   Care of Goats: All goats used under the permit shall receive proper
veterinary treatment and regular deworming. In the event that a prescribed
grazing goat becomes ill, hurt, or perishes, the permit holder and the owner of
the goat is responsible for immediate on-site care or removal of the goat from
the property. Overall care of the goats shall include the following:
      1.   Goats that become parasitized or otherwise unhealthy shall be
removed off-site by the contractor or provider.
      2.   To ensure the biosecurity of the grazing site, all goats introduced
to the permitted grazing site must come clean and leave clean.
   I.   Violation and Penalties: If a violation of the terms of this Section or
the prescribed goat grazing permit is found, the City shall give written notice
thereof to the permit holder. If the violation is not remedied within ten (10)
days of the date of the notice, a misdemeanor citation may be issued and/or the
prescribed goat grazing permit may be revoked. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the City may immediately revoke the permit and/or a misdemeanor citation may be
immediately issued if there is a violation of 15-7-2(G) or 15-7-2(H) or if a
permit holder’s goat(s) have been found running at large on two (2) or more
occurrences within the term of the permit. The City shall notify the permit
holder of the opportunity to appeal the revocation to the City Council in
writing, and the City shall specify the length of time the permit holder has to
file an appeal. The permit holder shall file the request for the hearing in
front of City Council within ten (10) days of the date of the revocation or
shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal. (Ord. 566, 7-6-2021; amd.
Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
15-7-3: SHADE TREE PROGRAM:
   A.   State regulations adopted:
      1.   Sections 1505.0010 through 1505.0600 of 3 Minnesota rules,
department of agriculture, shade tree program, together with amendments thereof
to date, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter as if
set out herein in full, except as hereinafter provided. A copy of said rules
marked “Official Copy” is on file in the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Stockpiling elm wood:
      1.   The stockpiling of bark bearing elm wood within the city limits of
the city shall be permitted during the period from September 15 through April 1
of any given year. Any such wood not utilized by April 1 of any year must then
be removed and disposed of as provided by this chapter and the regulations
incorporated hereby.
   C.   Conflicting provisions:
      1.   Where the provisions of this chapter conflict or are inconsistent
with any other ordinance of the city, the provisions of this chapter shall
supersede except in instances where one regulation is more restrictive than
another, in which case, the more restrictive shall apply and control.
   D.   Violation; penalty:
      1.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (1981 Code 1008 §§ 1-4; amd. 2003 Code; Ord 593, 9-17-
2024)
15-7-4: WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION:
   A.   Definition:
      1.   The word “person” as used in this chapter shall mean and include one
or more persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations, partnerships,
associations, joint stock companies, societies and all other entities of any
kind capable of being sued.
   B.   Weeds and Noxious Vegetation Prohibited:
      1.   Height Restriction; Accumulations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent, servant, representative or
employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any occupied
or unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in the City to permit or maintain
on any such lot or land, or on or along the sidewalk, street, or alley adjacent
to the same between the property line and the curb or middle of the alley or
for ten feet (10') outside the property line if there is no curb, any growth of
weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height than twelve inches
(12"), or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush.
      2.   Exemption. Any ground cover vegetation located in the following
areas is hereby exempt from height restrictions:
         a.   Shore impact zones;
         b.   Areas within fifty feet (50') of a wetland or natural drainage
way;
         c.   Bluff impact zones;
         d.   Areas of native plant communities; and
         e.   Significant vegetative stands, with said areas identified under
Title 12 Zoning, Chapter 3, Mississippi River Corridor Critical Area (MRCCA)
Overlay District ordinance.
         f.   Ground cover vegetation and any vegetation management within the
MRCCA Overlay District shall comply with the Vegetation Management requirements
and standards of Section
12-6A-9  of City Code Title 12, Chapter 6 and any Vegetation Management Permits
approved by the City.
      3.   Poisonous Plants: It shall be unlawful for any such person or
persons to cause, suffer, or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plant
or plants detrimental to health to grow on any lot or land in such manner that
any part of such ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous or harmful weed shall extend
upon, overhang or border any public place or allow the seed, pollen, or other
poisonous particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into
any public place.
   C.   Duty to Abate:
      1.   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or
land to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass or
other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to
comply with the provisions of section
15-7-4 B of this chapter; provided, that cutting and removing such weeds, grass
and vegetation at least once in every three (3) weeks, between May 15 and
September 15 shall be deemed to be a compliance with this chapter.
   D.   Abatement Procedure:
      1.   Notice To Abate: If the provisions of sections 15-7-4B and 15-7-4C
of this chapter are not complied with, the weed inspector shall serve written
notice upon the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care or
control of any such lot or land to comply with the provision of this chapter.
      2.   Abatement By City; Costs A Lien: If the person upon whom the notice
is served fails, neglects or refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be cut
and removed such weeds, grass or other vegetation within five (5) days after
receipt of such notice, or if no person can be found in the city who either is
or claims to be the owner of such lot or land or who either represents or
claims to represent such owner, the weed inspector shall cause such weeds,
grass and other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and removed, and the
actual cost of such cutting and removal, plus five percent (5%) for inspection
and other additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the
city clerk to the county auditor and shall thereupon become and be a lien upon
the property on which such weeds, grass and other vegetation were located and
shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and
levied upon such lot or land and shall bear interest at the same rate as taxes
and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in the same manner
as taxes.
   E.   Exemptions from Provisions:
      1.   Application For Exemption: An application for an annual exemption
from the requirements of this chapter may be filed with the weed inspector.
      2.   Grounds For Exemptions: The weed inspector may grant exemption from
strict compliance with this chapter if, in his determination, the property
meets certain criteria.
         a.   The inspector will give consideration for exemption to properties
which he determines to be wetland areas, wooded areas, steep slopes, large
undeveloped parcels, wildlife habitats, nature preserves or properties adjacent
thereto, or to those portions of developed residential lots which are
designated as natural and planted with decorative plants such as prairie grass
and wildflowers.
         b.   Unimproved portions of city parks, state owned property, rights
of way, and ditches are exempt from compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      3.    Revocation Of Exemption: Exemptions authorized by the weed
inspector are subject to revocation should any of the following conditions be
determined to exist:
         a    Noxious weeds are found to be present subsequent to the granting
of an exemption;
         b.   The exemption results in creation of a sight obstruction or
hydrant obstruction;
         c.   An unusual number of complaints are lodged with the weed
inspector; or
         d.   The property becomes a disposal site for grass clippings,
branches or other forms of debris.
   F.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass or other
vegetation as directed in this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the provisions of any notice herein provided or who shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter or who shall resist or obstruct the weed
inspector or his employees in the cutting and removal of weeds, grass and other
vegetation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1  of this code, and each day on which such violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (1981 Code 1001 §§ 1-5; amd. Ord. 273, 3-5-1991;
2003 Code; Ord. 568, 9-23-2021; Ord. 593, 9-17-2024)
