MONTICELLO, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 840, passed 12-9-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
   
Appendix:      Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The county of Wright.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   All future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in
existence at the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention
expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any Licensed Peace Officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may, with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, Peace Officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particula
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer
or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be
given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the
property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident, or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the City Clerk to object to the termination before
it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established in Appendix VI of the User’s
Guide to the MBC. Such resolution may not proscribe administrative penalties
for traffic offenses designated by M.S. § 169.999.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective, and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk, or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a written
notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is
alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request the
payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to the
City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. A sample notice
is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In the sole discretion of the
person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time for payment may be
extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by the person to whom
the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative penalty, the
person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged violator to adopt
a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation
and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting
in the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the
payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by City Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the City Council or any city official designated by it, may
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   APPENDIX
   NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of section of the city code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §
                     of the city code relating to
                                                                                                                                                                  
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the City Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                              
      (Name and title of person giving notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEE POLICIES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES
      
35.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
37.   LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Agenda
   
30.06   Quorum
   
30.07   Voting
   
30.08   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, and the like
   
30.09   Commissions
   
30.10   Suspensions, amendments of rules
   
30.11   Compensation
   
30.12   Worker’s compensation; elected officials
   
30.13   Mayoral term
   
30.14   Removal of appointed city councilmembers from a committee, commission,
board, and the like
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Monday of each calendar month at a time to be established and approved
annually with the regular meeting schedule of Council and commissions. Any
regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be held on the next following
business day at the same time and place. All meetings, including special and
adjourned meetings, shall be held in the Council chambers, unless the notice of
the special meeting designates a different location.
   (B)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or by
any two members of the Council by writing filed with the Clerk. At least one
day before the meeting, the Clerk or his or her appointed assistant shall
notify each member of the time, place, and purpose of the meeting. Special
meetings may be held without prior written notice when all councilmembers are
present at the meeting or consent thereto in writing. Any special meeting
attended by all the councilmembers shall be a valid meeting for the transaction
of any business that may come before the meeting.
   (C)   At the first regular City Council meeting in January of each year, the
Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose an acting Mayor from the members who shall perform the
duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city, or in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor until a successor has been
appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of boards, commissions,
and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   All City Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings,
shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1) (Ord. 616, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. In the
absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside, or in the absence of
both, the Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the
councilmembers present at the meeting choose one of their number to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules of
procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to the final
decision of the City Council on appeal, all questions of procedures and order.
Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the proceedings of
the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order,
Revised.
   (C)   Any member may appeal to the City Council from a ruling of the
presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely
on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or her
ruling, but no other councilmember shall participate in the discussion. The
appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   The Mayor or any other member of the City Council may move, second,
and debate a motion. The presiding officer shall not be deprived of any of the
privileges of a councilmember by reason of his or her acting as the presiding
officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   The minutes of each City Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk.
In the absence of the Clerk, the presiding officer shall appoint a secretary
pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in full in
the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the Clerk and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   The minutes of each meeting shall be signed by the Clerk, and copies
thereof shall be delivered to each city councilmember as soon as practicable
after the meeting. At the next regular meeting following delivery, approval of
the minutes shall be considered by the Council, which minutes need not be read
aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections.
If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made
without a vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote
upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the
minutes shall stand approved as submitted.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Each meeting of the City Council shall convene at the time and place
appointed therefor, and Council business shall be conducted in the following
order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Approval of minutes;
      (3)   Citizen comments;
      (4)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (5)   Consent agenda;
      (6)   Payment of claims;
      (7)   Ordinance and resolutions;
      (8)   Public hearings;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Unfinished business; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The order of business may be varied by the presiding officer, but all
public hearings shall be held at an approximate time specified in the notice of
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 AGENDA.
   The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the order of business and
agenda packet shall be provided to each councilmember. No item of business
shall be considered unless it appears on the agenda for the meeting; but the
City Council may, in its discretion, consider matters not appearing on the
agenda.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 30.06 QUORUM.
   At all City Council meetings, a majority of all councilmembers elected shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 30.07 VOTING.
   The votes of the members on any question pending before the City Council may
be by voice vote, standing vote, or in any other manner of voting which
signifies the intention of the members; but if the vote is not unanimous, the
names of those voting for and against the question shall be recorded in the
minutes. If any member being present does not vote, the minutes, as to his or
her name, shall be marked “present, not voting”.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 30.08 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in writing and shall
be ready in full before a vote is taken thereon, but reading in full may be
dispensed with by unanimous consent. All motions shall be recorded in the
minutes and stated in full before they are submitted to a vote by the presiding
officer. All petitions and other communications addressed to the City Council
shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation of the same to
the Council. They shall then be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with
the minutes in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Every ordinance and resolution passed by the City Council shall be
signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk, and filed by him or her in the
ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be
attached to and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or
resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall be assigned the number, if
any, and the title of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or
part. No ordinance or resolution or section or subdivision thereof shall be
amended by reference to the title alone, but an amending ordinance or
resolution shall set forth in full each section or subdivision to be amended.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
§ 30.09 COMMISSIONS.
   The City Council may create such commissions, standing or special, as it
deems necessary. Commissions shall consist of as many members, and perform such
duties, as the Council may from time to time require. Any matter brought before
the Council for consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the
appropriate commission or to a special commission appointed by him or her for a
written report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-9)
§ 30.10 SUSPENSIONS, AMENDMENTS OF RULES.
   The rules and regulation of the City Council may be temporarily suspended by
a majority vote of all the councilmembers and shall not be repealed or amended
except by a majority vote of the whole Council after notice has been given at
some preceding Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-10)
§ 30.11 COMPENSATION.
   The monthly salary for the offices of Mayor and councilmembers shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Mayor: $700; and
   (B)   Councilmembers: $600.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-11) (Ord. 482, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 30.12 WORKER’S COMPENSATION; ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 176.011, subd. 9, clause 6, as it may be amended from
time to time, the elected officials of the city are hereby included in the
coverage of the state’s Worker’s Compensation Act, being M.S. Ch. 176, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-12) (Ord. 168, passed 1-23-1989)
§ 30.13 MAYORAL TERM.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 205.07, as it may be amended from time to time, the term
of an elected mayor shall be two years, effective January 1, 2001.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-13) (Ord. 316, passed 8-10-1998; Ord. 324, passed 4-26-1999)
§ 30.14 REMOVAL OF APPOINTED COUNCILMEMBERS FROM A COMMITTEE, COMMISSION,
BOARD, AND THE LIKE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, any city councilmember appointed
to any board, commission, committee, or other entity by the City Council,
whether for a specified term or for an indefinite term, shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council and may be removed by the Council by a three-fifths
vote of the full Council at any time.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-14) (Ord. 327, passed 6-28-1999; Ord. 328, passed 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Section
Personnel
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Adoption of city personnel handbook by reference
   
31.03   Positions
   
31.04   City Administrator
   
31.05   Outside employment
Procedure for Enforcing Administrative Offenses
   
31.20   Purpose
   
31.21   Definition
   
31.22   Notices
   
31.23   Payment
   
31.24   Hearing
   
31.25   Hearing Officer
   
31.26   Failure to pay
   
31.27   Disposition of penalties
Criminal History Background Investigations
   
31.40   Background investigations
   
31.41   Investigation process
   
31.42   Results and action by city
   
31.43   Additional conditions
PERSONNEL
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   It shall be the purpose of those rules and regulations to establish a
uniform and equitable system of municipal personnel administration for all
employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 31.02 ADOPTION OF CITY PERSONNEL HANDBOOK BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s personnel handbook as adopted by the City Council, and amended as
needed, shall serve as the system of municipal personnel administration for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 31.03 POSITIONS.
   All offices and positions in the city now existing or hereafter created by
the City Council, unless specifically exempt, shall be subject to the
provisions of these rules and regulations, except that the following offices
and positions in the municipal employ shall be exempt from the provisions of
these rules and regulations:
   (A)   Elected officials;
   (B)   Members of boards and commissions; and
   (C)   Appointed officials as follows: Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 31.04 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a City Administrator who shall provide
the administrative supervision and direction of the city under the governance
of the Council.
   (B)   The duties of Administrator shall be as prescribed by the City Council
and in accordance with state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 72, passed 1-30-1980; Ord. 608, passed 1-26-2015)
§ 31.05 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Any employee holding one of the positions listed below shall not
perform the same or substantially similar duties for another local unit of
government on either a full-time or ongoing part-time basis, either directly as
an employee or independent contractor or indirectly through a corporation or
other entity.
   (B)    The positions covered by this section are: City Administrator;
Community Development Director; Economic Development Director; Public Works
Director; Chief Building Official; City Engineer; and Finance Director.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 430, passed 9-26-2005; Ord. 586, passed 11-12-2013)
PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
§ 31.20 PURPOSE.
   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this subchapter
are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate an
administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first instance. In
the event a party participates in the administrative offense procedures but
does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed, the city will seek to
collect the costs of the administrative offense procedures as part of a
subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is charged and is
adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE. A violation of a provision of this code and is
subject to the administrative penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses
and penalties referred to in §§
10.98 and
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-2)
§ 31.22 NOTICES.
   (A)   Before an administrative citation may be issued, staff shall mail a
notice of violation to the last known address of the individual committing the
alleged offense. In the event there is no response to the initial letter, staff
shall mail a final notice of violation to the last known address of the
individual committing the alleged offense and provide them notice that failure
to comply with the final notice will result in the issuance of an
administrative citation. No additional notice shall be required before issuing
a citation if the property owner has already been issued a citation within the
last 12 months.
   (B)   Any officer of the Wright County Sheriff’s Office or any other person
employed by the city, authorized in writing by the City Administrator, and
having authority to enforce this code, shall, upon determining that there has
been a violation, notify the violator and provide the violator with notice. The
notice shall set forth the nature, date, and time of violation, the name of the
official issuing the notice, and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.23 PAYMENT.
   Once notice is given, the alleged violator may, within seven days of the
notice, pay the amount set forth on the schedule of penalties for the
violation, or may request a hearing in writing, as is provided for hereafter.
The penalty may be paid in person or by mail, and payment shall be deemed to be
an admission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-4)
§ 31.24 HEARING.
   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this subchapter
may, within seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, request a hearing
by a hearing officer who shall forthwith conduct an informal hearing to
determine if a violation has occurred. The hearing officer shall have authority
to dismiss the violation or reduce or waive the penalty. If the violation is
sustained by the hearing officer, the violator shall pay the penalty imposed.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.25 HEARING OFFICER.
   A city representative designated in writing by the City Administrator shall
be the hearing officer for all administrative offenses. The hearing officer is
authorized to hear and determine any controversy relating to administrative
offenses provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 31.26 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In the event a party charged with an administrative offense fails to pay the
penalty, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge may be brought against the
alleged violator in accordance with applicable ordinance or statutes. If the
penalty is paid or if an individual is found not to have committed the
administrative offense by the hearing officer, no charge may be brought by the
city for the same violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-7)
§ 31.27 DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES.
   All penalties collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be paid to the
city and may be deposited in the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-8)
CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS
§ 31.40 BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Applicants for city employment. The city shall conduct a criminal
history background investigation on the applicants for all full- and part-time
employment positions with the city. All employees hired on or after the
effective date hereof shall be subject to additional periodic criminal history
background investigations at the discretion of the city during the term of
their employment.
   (B)   City volunteers. The city shall conduct a criminal history background
investigation on those applicants the City Administrator or designee deems such
investigation to be necessary based upon anticipated interaction with children,
seniors, or vulnerable persons, or for any other reason or as a matter of
general practice, as determined at the sole discretion of the city. This
division (B) specifically excludes members elected or appointed to the City
Council. All volunteers appointed on or after the effective date hereof shall
be subject to additional periodic criminal history background investigations at
the discretion of the city during the term of their service to the city.
   (C)   Applicants for city licenses. The city or Wright County Sheriff’s
Office shall conduct a criminal history background investigation on the
applicants for the following licenses with the city:
      (1)   Liquor licenses (3.2% malt liquor, wine, intoxicating liquors,
breweries, distilleries, Sunday liquor);
      (2)   Lawful gambling;
      (3)   Pawnshops;
      (4)   Massage businesses and services; and
      (5)   Peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants.
§ 31.41 INVESTIGATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Individuals subject to a criminal background investigation must
authorize the city or Wright County Sheriff’s Office, by written or other
specified mean, of consent to conduct the criminal history background
investigation before the investigation is undertaken with such consent fully
compliant with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to
time, regarding the collection, maintenance, and use of the information.
   (B)   Any data that is accessed and acquired by the city shall be maintained
at City Hall under the care and custody of the Human Resources Manager and City
Clerk.
   (C)   Any data that is accessed and acquired by Wright County Sheriff’s
Office shall be maintained under the care and custody of Wright County’s
designee.
   (D)   Any data that is acquired or summary of the results of the criminal
history background investigation may be released to the City Council, City
Administrator, City Attorney, City Clerk, or Human Resources if necessary to
carry out the duties of their position.
   (E)   The cost of the criminal background investigations shall be listed in
the city’s fee schedule ordinance and shall be paid to the city.
§ 31.42 RESULTS AND ACTION BY CITY.
   (A)   Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, as it may be
amended from time to time, the city will not reject an applicant for
employment, volunteer assignment, or license on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence.
   (B)   If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set for the in M.S.
§ 364.06;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment,
volunteer assignment, or issuance of a license; and
      (4)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
§ 31.43 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter limits the city’s right to establish additional
conditions or requirements above and beyond a criminal background investigation
in circumstances where the City Council or city staff determine that such
additional conditions or requirements will serve to better protect the city
and/or the health, safety, and welfare of its residents or the public in
general.
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.001   Name of the Commission
   
32.002   Authorization
   
32.003   Membership
   
32.004   Term of office
   
32.005   Attendance
   
32.006   Vacancy
   
32.007   Officers
   
32.008   Meetings
   
32.009   Quorum
   
32.010   Duties of the Commission
   
32.011   Amendments
   
32.012   Compensation
Library Board
   
32.025   Appointment
   
32.026   Terms
   
32.027   Removal of Directors
   
32.028   Vacancies
   
32.029   Organization of Board and rules
   
32.030   Additional power
Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission
   
32.045   Purpose
   
32.046   Membership
   
32.047   Term of office
   
32.048   Attendance
   
32.049   Vacancy
   
32.050   Officers
   
32.051   Meetings
   
32.052   Quorum
   
32.053   Duties of the Commission
   
32.054   Amendments
Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional Park Advisory Council
   
32.065   Establishment
   
32.066   Purpose
   
32.067   Bylaws by reference
Industrial and Economic Development Committee
   
32.075   Name of Committee
   
32.076   Authorization
   
32.077   Membership
   
32.078   Term of office
   
32.079   Attendance
   
32.080   Vacancy
   
32.081   Officers
   
32.082   Meetings
   
32.083   Quorum
   
32.084   Duties of the Committee
   
32.085   Amendments
Economic Development Authority
   
32.100   Established
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.001 NAME OF THE COMMISSION.
   The name of the organization shall be the Monticello Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 32.002 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The authorization for the establishment of this Commission is set
forth under M.S. Ch. 462, Municipal Planning Enabling Act, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   The Planning Commission is hereby designated the planning agency of
the city pursuant to the Municipal Planning Act.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 32.003 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the City
Council. All members shall be residents of the city and shall have equal rights
and privileges.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 32.004 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Appointments. All members shall be appointed for three-year terms
ending on December 31 of a given year; however, the term may be terminated
earlier by the City Council. Terms shall be staggered so that no more than two
members’ terms shall expire in a given year. The terms are to commence on the
day of appointment by Council. Every appointed member shall, before entering
upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she will
faithfully discharge the duties of office.
   (B)   Renewals. When an expiring member’s term is up, such member may be
reappointed by Council with the effective date of the new term beginning on the
first day of the next year following the expiration.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 32.005 ATTENDANCE.
   It is the City Council’s intention to encourage Planning Commission members
to attend all Planning Commission meetings. Should any Planning Commission
member be absent for more than three meetings in a calendar year, that member
may be subject to replacement by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 32.006 VACANCY.
   Any vacancy in the regular or at-large membership shall be filled by the
City Council, and such appointee shall serve for the unexpired term so filled.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 32.007 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Elections. The City Planning Commission shall elect at its January
meeting from its membership a Chair, Vice Chair, and a Secretary who shall
serve for a term of one year and shall have powers as may be prescribed in the
rules of the Commission.
   (B)   Duties of Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the
Planning Commission and shall have the duties normally conferred and
parliamentary usage of such officers.
   (C)   Duties of Vice Chair. The Vice Chair shall act for the Chair in his or
her absence.
   (D)   Duties of Secretary.
      (1)   A Secretary may be appointed who is not a member of the Planning
Commission but can be employed as a member of city staff.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes and records of the Commission;
and with the assistance of staff as is available shall prepare the agenda of
the regular and special meetings for Commission members, arrange proper and
legal notice of hearings when necessary, attend to correspondence of the
Commission, and handle other duties as are normally carried out by a Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 32.008 MEETINGS.
   (A)    The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month. This meeting shall be held on the first Tuesday. Regular meeting times
shall be established by the Commission and approved annually with the regular
meeting schedule of Council and Commission. Hearings shall be heard as soon
thereafter as possible. The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, and findings, which record shall be a public record. The meeting
shall be open to the general public.
   (B)   In the event of conflict for a regularly-scheduled meeting date, a
majority at any meeting may change the date, time, and location of the meeting.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called by the chair or two members of the
Planning Commission together, as needed, and shall be coordinated with city
staff.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 32.009 QUORUM.
   A majority of all voting Planning Commission members shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-9)
§ 32.010 DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission has the powers and duties assigned to it under M.S. Ch.
462, Municipal Planning Enabling Act, as it may be amended from time to time,
by this code, and state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-10)
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall act as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals for the Monticello zoning ordinance and shall act according to
procedures as established by the Monticello zoning ordinance.
§ 32.011 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended as recommended by the majority vote of the
existing membership of the Planning Commission and only after majority vote of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-11)
§ 32.012 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation of members of the Commission shall be as set forth in city code
for fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-12) (Ord. 336, passed 11-22-1999; Ord. 337, passed 1-10-
2011; Ord. 593, passed 3-10-2014; Ord. 607, passed 1-26-2015)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.025 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Library Board pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 134, as it may be amended from time to time, and laws amendatory
thereof or supplemental thereto. The Board shall consist of five members
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of no more than one member who is not a
resident of the city and no more than one member of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 32.026 TERMS.
   (A)   Two members shall hold office until December 31, 1981, two members
shall hold office until December 31, 1982, and one member shall hold office
until December 31, 1983.
   (B)   Annually thereafter, appointments shall be for the term of three
years.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 32.027 REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may remove any member of
the Library Board for misconduct or neglect of duty.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 32.028 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the Board shall be filled by an appointment by the Mayor with
City Council approval. Any Board member so appointed shall serve the remaining
term of the vacated Board member.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 32.029 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD AND RULES.
   (A)   Immediately after appointment, such Board shall organize by electing
one of its number as President and one as Secretary, and from time to time it
may appoint other officers and employees as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt bylaws and regulations for the government of the
library, community room, and reading room and for the conduct of its business
as may be expedient and conformable to law.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 32.030 ADDITIONAL POWER.
   The Board shall have additional powers as commensurate with M.S. Ch. 134, as
it may be amended from time to time, and laws amendatory thereof or
supplemental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2-5-10) (Ord. 96, passed 4-13-1981)
PARKS, ARTS, AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 32.045 PURPOSE.
   A Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission is hereby established to serve as
an advisory commission to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-1) (Ord. 664, passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.046 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission shall consist of seven
regular members to be appointed by the City Council. The Commission shall
consist of no more than one member who is not a resident of the city.
   (B)   Any non-resident appointed to the Commission must reside in the
Orderly Annexation Area.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-2) (Ord. 664, passed 4-10-2017; Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.047 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the regular members shall be for three years and shall be
staggered so that no more than two members’ terms expire in a given year. All
regular terms shall expire on December 31 of a given year.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-3)
§ 32.048 ATTENDANCE.
   It is the City Council’s intention to encourage Parks, Arts, and Recreation
Commission members to attend all Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission
meetings. Should any Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission member be absent
for more than three meetings in a calendar year, that member will be subject to
replacement by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-4) (Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.049 VACANCY.
   Any vacancy in the regular or at large membership shall be filled by the
City Council, and such appointee shall serve for the unexpired term so filled.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-5)
§ 32.050 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Elections. The city’s Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission shall
elect at its January meeting from its membership a Chair, Vice Chair, and a
Secretary who shall serve for a term of one year and shall have powers as may
be prescribed in the rules of the Commission.
   (B)   Duties of Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Parks,
Arts, and Recreation Commission and shall have the duties normally conferred
and parliamentary usage of such officers.
   (C)   Duties of Vice Chair. The Vice Chair shall act for the Chair in his or
her absence.
   (D)   Duties of Secretary. A Secretary may be appointed who is not a member
of the Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission but can be employed as a member
of city staff. The Secretary shall keep the minutes and records of the
Commission; and with the assistance of staff as is available shall prepare the
agenda of the regular and special meetings for Commission members, arrange
proper and legal notice of hearings when necessary, attend to correspondence of
the Commission, and other duties as are normally carried out by a Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-6) (Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.051 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings shall be held on a date established by the Parks, Arts, and
Recreation Commission. In the event of a conflict with a holiday or special
events, a majority at any meeting may change the date and location of the
meeting. The meeting shall be open to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-7) (Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.052 QUORUM.
   A majority of the total Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-8) (Ord. 731, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 32.053 DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission, with staff assistance, to study and
provide information to determine the city’s needs for parks facilities and open
space needs of the city along with recommendations for recreation activities
and programming including general and specific development standards and
criteria for evaluating specific sites.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-9) (Ord. 664, passed 4-10-2017)
§ 32.054 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended as recommend by the majority vote of the
existing membership of the Parks, Arts, and Recreation Commission and only
after majority vote of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-6-10) (Ord. 203, passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 664, passed 4-10-2017;
Ord. 731, passed 11-12- 2019)
BERTRAM CHAIN OF LAKES REGIONAL PARK ADVISORY COUNCIL
§ 32.065 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City of Monticello, in partnership with Wright County, hereby
establishes an Advisory Council of the Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional Park.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 32.066 PURPOSE.
   The Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional Park Advisory Council shall provide
information to its governing bodies in determination of the acquisition, usage,
operation, management, and functions of the Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional
Park.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 32.067 BYLAWS BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council has approved bylaws for the Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional
Park Advisory Council, the current version of which has been filed in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 598, passed 5-12-2014)
INDUSTRIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
§ 32.075 NAME OF COMMITTEE.
   The name of the organization shall be the city’s Industrial and Economic
Development Committee (IEDC).
(Prior Code, § 2-10-1)
§ 32.076 AUTHORIZATION.
   Duties are delegated to the IEDC by the City Council by the ordinance
codified herein dated June 28, 2010, and by Res. 2008-44, approved May 27,
2008.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-2)
§ 32.077 MEMBERSHIP.
   The city’s IEDC shall consist of 16 to 18 regular members to be appointed by
the City Council. The Committee members shall consist of city business
representatives or residents of the city. Specific general membership
eligibility on the IEDC shall be defined in the Organizational and Membership
Guidelines. One councilmember shall be appointed annually to serve on the IEDC.
The Director of the city’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry shall be an ex-
officio member of the IEDC.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-3) (Ord. 637, passed 4-25-2016; Ord. 715, passed 3-25-2019;
Ord. 782, passed 8-8-2022; Ord. 836, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 32.078 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of the regular members shall be for three years and shall be
staggered so that no more than one-half of the terms expire in a given year.
All regular terms shall expire on December 31 of any given year.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-4)
§ 32.079 ATTENDANCE.
   It is the City Council’s intention to encourage IEDC members to attend all
IEDC meetings. It is desired that IEDC members attend at least 75% of meetings
in a calendar year. Members may be subject to replacement by the Council in the
event attendance does not meet this standard.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-5)
§ 32.080 VACANCY.
   Any vacancy in the regular or at large membership shall be filled by the
City Council, and such appointee shall serve for the unexpired term so filled.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-6)
§ 32.081 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Elections. The city’s IEDC shall elect at its annual meeting from its
membership a Chair, Vice Chair, and a Secretary who shall serve for a term of
one year and shall have powers as may be prescribed in the rules of the
Committee.
   (B)   Duties of Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the IEDC
and shall have the duties normally conferred and parliamentary usage of such
officers.
   (C)   Duties of Vice Chair. The Vice Chair shall act for the Chair in his or
her absence.
   (D)   Duties of Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes and records
of the Committee with the assistance of city staff.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-7)
§ 32.082 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings shall be held on a date established by the IEDC. In the
event of a conflict with a holiday or special events, a majority at any meeting
may change the date and location of the meeting. The meeting shall be open to
the general public.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-8)
§ 32.083 QUORUM.
   A majority of the total IEDC members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-9)
§ 32.084 DUTIES OF THE COMMITTEE.
   It shall be the duty of the Committee, with staff assistance, to advocate
and make recommendations to the Economic Development Authority and City
Council, relative to and including influencing industrial and economic
development in and for the city, with an emphasis on industrial land,
increasing tax base and number of livable wage-level jobs by promoting
industrial and economic growth, and working to maintain a desirable business
environment.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-10)
§ 32.085 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter may be amended as recommend by the majority vote of the
existing membership of the IEDC and only after majority vote of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-10-11) (Ord. 519, passed 8-23-2010)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.100 ESTABLISHED.
   As authorized by M.S. Ch. 469, as it may be amended from time to time, the
City Council has established an Economic Development Authority by passing an
enabling resolution, the current version of which has been filed in the office
of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 469A, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 551, passed 2-27-
2012)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization  responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency  government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency  preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management .
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency  functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency  medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, chemical, evacuation, congregate care, emergency
transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other functions related to
civil protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
for carrying out the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city
level emergency management  functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster  response. This organization
provides a city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster  preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization  which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director’s
responsibilities shall be part of the duties of the Fire Marshal/Emergency
Services Coordinator. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of the emergency  preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the City Administrator.
The emergency management organization  shall conform to and be consistent with,
where applicable, all state and federal requirements, including the National
Incident Management System framework found at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management . The Director shall develop proposed
mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for
reciprocal emergency management  aid and assistance in an emergency  too great
to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the City
Council for its action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the
Minnesota State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management  and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency  or disaster . The Director shall
establish the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs,
boards, and sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and
directions subject to the approval of the City Administrator and/or City
Council.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency  plan for the
emergency  preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the City
Council for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be
the duty of all city agencies and all emergency  preparedness forces of the
city to perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The
plan may be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall
coordinate the emergency management  activities of the city to the end that
they shall be consistent and fully integrated with the emergency  plans of the
federal government and the state and correlated with emergency  plans of the
county and other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency  exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Operations Plan when a
disaster  occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization  and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency  activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management  personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency  plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency  personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency  services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management  organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency  operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management .
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency  may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the City Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency  shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency  shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster  plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster  agency shall provide aid and
services in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency  or to prepare for an
emergency  for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the City Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency  health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency  regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency  to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk’s office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the City
Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area
as the City Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the
Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The City Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time.
If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days
after its effective date or at the end of the emergency  to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency  regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency , the city is, under the provisions of
M.S. § 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its City
Council, acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter
into contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster  by
protecting the health and safety of persons and property and providing
emergency  assistance to the victims of a disaster . The city may exercise
these powers in the light of the exigencies of the disaster  without compliance
with the time-consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining
to the performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements,
purchase of supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the
appropriation and expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to,
publication of resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of
personnel laws and rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for
bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management  are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization  shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES
Section
   
34.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Conflicts
   
34.04   Fire service charges in general
   
34.05   Fire service charges
   
34.06   Fees
§ 34.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of authorizing the city to establish
and charge user service charges for emergency services as described in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An alarm installation designed to be used for the prevention
or detection of burglary, robbery, heat, smoke, carbon monoxide, and fire on
the premises which contain an alarm installation. Automobile alarm devices are
not an ALARM SYSTEM.
   ALARM USER. A person  in control of any building, structure, or facility
wherein an alarm system  is maintained.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING and INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING. Any structures that are
used, or intended either by the nature of its construction, or by any
conditional use permits, interim use permits, or business licenses issued to be
used for commercial, institutional (e.g., school or governmental uses), or
industrial purposes. Multiple family rental housing of any type is considered
to be commercial for the purposes of this chapter.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL RESPONSE (NON MOTOR VEHICLE INCIDENT). Any medical
response not involving a motor vehicle  where the Fire Department is able to
render aid, provide assistance, or otherwise improve the conditions of any
injured persons.
   EXCAVATOR. A person  who conducts excavation.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal eliciting a response by fire personnel when a
situation requiring a response does not, in fact, exist and which is caused by
the activation of the alarm system  through mechanical failure, alarm
malfunction, improper installation, or the inadvertence of the owner or lessee
of an alarm system .
   FIRE RESPONSE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, or any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur. Such deployment constitutes FIRE RESPONSE
regardless of whether these services are actually performed.
   FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for a fire response  or
emergency medical response .
   FIRE WATCH. An event where one or more members of the city’s Fire Department
remain at the scene of an emergency response after the emergency has been
addressed by the city’s Fire Department for the purpose of maintaining watch
over the property responded to until an owner or an owner’s representative
arrives to secure the property.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any chemical or chemical compound that is listed as a
hazardous substance in rules adopted under M.S. Ch. 182, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. Any activity in violation of state statutes, rules, and
regulations, or city or county ordinances, which may be criminal or merely not
in conformity therewith.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes any vehicle propelled or
drawn by a self-propelled vehicle. This includes semi trailers, snowmobiles,
all terrain vehicles, and campers.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OWNER. Any person , firm, association, or corporation owning
or renting a motor vehicle , or having the exclusive use thereof, under a lease
or otherwise, for a period of greater than 30 days.
   PERSON. The state, a public agency, a local governmental unit, an
individual, corporation, partnership, association, business, public entity, or
a trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative of any of them.
   PREVENTATIVE FIRE WATCH. A situation when Fire Department personnel provide
fire watch  protection in any place of assembly or any place where people
congregate where public safety is at risk due to the number of persons, or the
nature of the performance, exhibition, display, contest, or activity, or due to
unusual fire hazards.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any structure which is used or intended by the nature
of its construction to be used by persons for living and sleeping quarters, but
shall not include multi-family housing, hotels, motels, or other buildings
intended primarily for transient lodging. RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS shall also
include outbuilding, barns, and other structures which are not defined as
commercial or institutional buildings as defined herein.
   UNDERGROUND PIPELINE UTILITY. An underground line, facility, system, and its
appurtenances used to produce, store, convey, transmit, or distribute gas, oil,
petroleum products, and other similar substances.
   VACANT PARCEL. Any property parcel that does not include any building
improvements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.03 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
applicable provisions of state law, rules, or regulations, the latter shall
prevail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.04 FIRE SERVICE CHARGES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The collection of fire service charges for the provision of Fire
Response  and Emergency Medical Response  shall be pursuant to M.S. §§ 366.011
and 415.01, as they may be amended from time to time, and any other applicable
statute. Collection of unpaid service charges shall be as authorized in M.S. §
366.012, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Said fees shall be charged as set forth in division §
34.05.
   (C)   For incidents where a fee is charged, the fee shall be calculated on
the basis of the personnel and equipment which respond to the incident as set
forth in the fee schedule in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances. All personnel and equipment provided by
other fire departments pursuant to a mutual aid request of the city’s Fire
Department shall be billed as if such personnel and equipment were provided by
the city’s Fire Department.
   (D)   When a particular service rendered by the Fire Department directly
benefits more than one person  or property, the owner of each property so
benefitted and each person so benefitted shall be liable for the payment of the
full charge for such service to his or her respective property or person.
   (E)   Parties billed the fire service charge  will have 30 days to pay. If
the service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send notice of delinquency.
   (F)   If the fire service charge  remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the service charge including the provisions of M.S. §
366.012, as it may be amended from time to time. The party receiving the
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, administrative costs, attorneys’ fees, recording
fees, and court costs.
   (G)   Any party aggrieved by a charge authorized in this chapter may appeal
the charge as follows.
      (1)   Within the time period for which a bill is payable, the party shall
file a written request with the City Clerk setting forth specific reasons why
the charge is improper.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall notify the aggrieved party, in writing, of the
time, place, and date the City Council will hold a hearing on the issue.
      (3)   The City Council may grant relief on appeal if it finds good cause
and sufficient proof to satisfy the Council.
      (4)   The City Council may extend the time for payment for a reasonable
period.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.05 FIRE SERVICE CHARGES.
   The service charges for fire responses or emergency medical responses shall
be as follows.
   (A)   Emergency medical response (non-motor vehicle incident).
      (1)   Emergency medical response (non-motor vehicle incident)  is any
medical response not involving a motor vehicle  where the Fire Department is
able to render aid, provide assistance, or otherwise improve the conditions of
any injured persons.
      (2)   With regard to emergency medical response (non-motor vehicle
incident) , there shall be no charge; provided, however, that should it be
determined by the city that the medical response falls within divisions (B),
(H), (I), and (J) as set out below, then an invoice for the cost of the Fire
Department response to the medical emergency will be sent to the property owner
or owner’s insurance company based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Motor vehicle incident.
      (1)   A motor vehicle  incident is any response involving a motor vehicle
where the Fire Department is able to render aid, provide assistance, or
otherwise improve the conditions of any injured persons. This would include,
but not be limited to: vehicle fire; extrication; medical care; absorbing
liquid spills; vehicle system safety; vehicle stabilization; and traffic
control.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the motor vehicle owner  or owner’s
insurance company for the cost of the Fire Department response to the motor
vehicle  incident based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   If there is more than one motor vehicle  involved for which Fire
Department service is provided, each motor vehicle owner  or insurer will be
invoiced an equal share of the service charge.
   (C)   Residential fire.
      (1)   A residential fire is any incident response to a fire involving a
residential building  as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   With regard to residential building  fires, there shall be no
charge; provided, however, that should it be determined by the city that the
residential fire response  falls within divisions (I), (J), or (K) as set out
below, then an invoice for the cost of the Fire Department response will be
sent to the property owner, hazardous waste generator, person (s) charged with
arson who set the fire, and/or the person(s) charged with an illegal crime
which contributed to the need for fire response . All such charges shall be
based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Commercial or institutional building fire response.
      (1)   A commercial or institutional building  fire is any incident
response to a fire involving a A commercial or institutional building  as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   With regard to a commercial or institutional building  responses by
the Fire Department, an invoice will be sent to the property owner or owner’s
insurance company for the cost of the Fire Department response to the
commercial or institutional incident based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances, but only when the response requires the
assistance of one or more other fire departments responding pursuant to a call
for mutual aid by the incident commander at the scene.
   (E)   Grass fires within a state trunk highway or county right-of-way.
      (1)   A grass fire is any incident response to a grass fire within or
outside of the right-of-way of a state trunk highway, county road, or city road
if the fire originated within the right-of-way of a state trunk highway, county
road, or city road as defined in M.S. § 161.465, as it may be amended from time
to time.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the State Commissioner of Transportation
or to the County Administrator for costs incurred by the Fire Department to
respond based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Technical rescue.
      (1)   A technical rescue is any incident response to a rescue on the
water, ice, confined space, trench, high or low level where specialized
equipment and training are required and where the Fire Department is able to
render aid, provide assistance, or otherwise improve the conditions of the
persons in need of rescue.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the person , entity, or business
receiving rescue service for costs incurred by the Fire Department to respond
based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Search and rescue.
      (1)   A search and rescue is any incident response to a search and/or
rescue of a missing person  where the Fire Department is able to render aid,
provide assistance, or otherwise improve the conditions of the person in need
of rescue.
      (2)   With regard to search and rescue services, there shall be no
charge.
   (H)   Underground pipeline utility breaks.
      (1)   An underground pipeline utility  break is any incident response to
an underground pipeline utility break.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the excavator  or person  responsible
for the pipeline utility break or to the owner or operator of the pipeline for
costs incurred by the Fire Department to respond based on the fee schedule set
forth in Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   In addition, the bill for service shall also include any cost of
cleanup of any contaminated equipment and/or repair of any equipment damaged
during the incident or its replacement, along with replacement of any
disposable equipment, supplies, and/or communication equipment.
   (I)   Hazardous material.
      (1)   A hazardous material incident is any response to the release of
hazardous material from its container, or the threat of a release of a
hazardous material from its container, chemical reaction, or other potential
emergency as the result of a hazardous material where the Fire Department is
able to render aid, provide assistance, or otherwise improve the conditions or
protect the public.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the person  responsible for the
hazardous material or transportation of the hazardous material for costs
incurred by the Fire Department to respond based on the fee schedule set forth
in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   In addition, the bill for service shall include any cost of cleanup
of any contaminated equipment and/or repair of any equipment damaged during the
incident or its replacement, along with replacement of any disposable
equipment, supplies, and/or communication equipment.
   (J)   Fire as the result of illegal activities.
      (1)   A fire as the result of illegal activities  is any incident
response to a fire that resulted from illegal activities  occurring on the
property as defined in this chapter. Examples of this would include, but not be
limited to, methamphetamine labs, commercial and industrial operations where a
necessary permit or license is required but has not been obtained from the
city, or the burning of debris without a properly issued burn permit.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the property owner, owner’s insurance
company, and/or the person (s) responsible for the illegal activity for costs
incurred by the Fire Department to respond based on the fee schedule set forth
in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances. The Fire Department reserves the right
to seek reimbursement through restitution should the person responsible for the
illegal activity be convicted of a crime related to the incident.
      (3)   In addition, the bill for service shall include any cost of cleanup
of any contaminated equipment and/or repair of any equipment damaged during the
incident or its replacement, along with replacement of any disposable
equipment, supplies, and/or communication equipment.
   (K)   Arson fire.
      (1)   An arson fire is any incident response to a fire where a person  is
charged under state law.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the property owner, owner’s insurance
company, and/or the person  charged with the arson for costs incurred by the
Fire Department to respond based on the fee schedule set forth in in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   In addition, the bill for service shall include any cost of cleanup
of any contaminated equipment and/or repair of any equipment damaged during the
incident or its replacement, along with replacement of any disposable
equipment, supplies, and/or communication equipment.
      (4)   The Fire Department reserves the right to seek reimbursement
through restitution should the person  responsible for the fire be convicted of
a crime related to the incident. The fire investigator responsible for the
incident investigation will forward all costs expended by the Fire Department
in association with the incident to the court for reimbursement through
restitution.
   (L)   Fire on vacant land.
      (1)   A fire on vacant land is any incident response to a fire involving
a fire on vacant parcel  as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   An invoice will be sent to the property owner or owner’s insurance
company for costs incurred by the Fire Department to respond based on the fee
schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (M)   Fire watch. Fees for personnel to stand by on fire watch  due to
unusual fire hazards or while waiting for the property owner or tenant to
respond to the scene following a fire incident and/or fire alarm, may be billed
to the owner of the property or the tenant, or both, on a per hour basis with a
one hour minimum. If a fire watch  is established at a property, the watch
shall be maintained until the owner of the property, the tenant, or his or her
designated representative arrives at the property and takes over responsibility
for monitoring fire safety, or until the Fire Department personnel on the scene
determine that such responsible person  either cannot be located or is
unwilling to take over responsibility for monitoring fire safety, or until the
Fire Department personnel on the scene determine that a fire watch  is no
longer necessary. An invoice will be sent to the property owner for costs
incurred by the Fire Department for a fire watch  based on the fee schedule set
forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (N)   Preventative fire watch. Fees for personnel to stand by on
preventative fire watch  may be billed to the owner of the property or the
tenant, or both, on a per hour basis with a one hour minimum. An invoice will
be sent to the property owner for costs incurred by the Fire Department for a
preventative fire watch  based on the fee schedule set forth in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.06 FEES.
ATV/UTV with water tank                             Current fee schedule
Car fires/accidents (nonresidential)                Current fee schedule
Command vehicle/utility or grass truck              Current fee schedule
Engines - all types                                 Current fee schedule
Extra personnel                                     Current fee schedule
Fire investigation team (county-wide response team) Current fee schedule
Fire watch                                          Current fee schedule
Heavy rescue/rescue/ambulance                       Current fee schedule
Ladder/aerial                                       Current fee schedule
Preventative fire watch                             Current fee schedule
Special response unit (county-wide response team)   Current fee schedule
Water tender                                        Current fee schedule
 
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 35: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Department established; purpose; organization
   
35.02   Fire Chief
   
35.03   Personnel
   
35.04   Standard operating guidelines
   
35.05   Firefighter’s relief association
   
35.06   Emergency operations
   
35.07   Authority at emergency scenes
   
35.08   Investigation of emergency incidents
   
35.09   Mutual aid
   
35.10   Service fees
   
35.11   Premises identification
Cleanup of Clandestine Drug Lab Sites and Chemical Dump Sites
   
35.25   General provisions
   
35.26   Definitions
   
35.27   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
35.28   Law enforcement action
   
35.29   Seizure of property
   
35.30   Action by City Building Official
   
35.31   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
35.32   Site owner’s responsibility for costs
   
35.33   City action and recovery of costs
   
35.34   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
35.35   Site owner and address
   
35.36   Suspension of residential rental license
   
35.37   Unauthorized removal of postings
   
35.38   Entry into or onto site
   
35.39   Removal of personal property from the site
Public Safety 800 MHZ Radio Building Amplification System
   
35.50   General
   
35.51   Amplification systems allowed
   
35.52   Testing procedures; acceptance test procedure
   
35.53   Annual tests
   
35.54   Five-year tests
   
35.55   Qualifications of testing personnel
   
35.56   Field testing
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby continued in the city and for its benefit a Fire
Department, whose mission is to respond to fire, rescue, hazardous material,
and other emergencies, to investigate the cause of fires, and to prevent fires
and promote safety in the community.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall be administered by a Fire Chief.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall have officers subordinate to the Fire Chief
who shall assist in management of Fire Department duties and functions. The
Fire Department chain of command shall be defined in the Fire Department’s
Standard Operating Guidelines. The Fire Chief shall develop administrative
policies.
   (D)   The Fire Department shall have staff to respond to fires and other
emergencies that may occur within the city and contract townships. The Fire
Chief shall recommend to the City Administrator for consideration by the City
Council a staffing plan for the Fire Department, which shall be adopted as part
of the Fire Department Standard Operating Guidelines.
§ 35.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the City Council upon
recommendation from the membership of the Department. The Fire Chief shall be
under the direction of the Council, but report to the City Administrator, for
general policy-making and administrative control, directing, planning, and
coordinating all activities of the Fire Department, including, but not limited
to, fire protection and emergency response, fire prevention and safety
educational services, training and safety of personnel, and fire station
facilities, vehicles, and equipment assigned to the Fire Department. Specific
duties of the Fire Chief shall be prescribed in a job description prepared by
the City Human Resources Director in consultation with the City Administrator.
   (B)   For periods of absence from the city up to 60 days, the Fire Chief
shall appoint an acting Fire Chief. For periods of absence longer than 60 days,
the City Council shall approve the appointment of an Acting Fire Chief
(normally the Assistant Chief).
§ 35.03 PERSONNEL.
   All employees of the Fire Department shall perform such duties and functions
as are prescribed in job descriptions which shall be prepared for each position
by the Fire Chief in consultation with the City Human Resources Director. The
City Council may consider, at its discretion, through the City Administrator,
the recommendations of the Fire Chief in these matters.
§ 35.04 STANDARD OPERATING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall recommend to the City Administrator for approval
by the City Council a set of Standard Operating Guidelines for operation and
administration of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The city’s personnel policies, as approved by the City Council and as
subsequently amended by authorization of the Council, shall apply to Fire
Department employees, including paid-on-call firefighters and officers in their
capacity as such. Any conflict between the city personnel policies and Fire
Department Standard Operating Guidelines, internal administrative policies, and
operational procedures shall be decided in favor of the most restrictive
policy.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall prepare operational procedures and administrative
policies as deemed necessary for the efficient operation of the Department.
Operational procedures and administrative policies shall not require approval
of the City Council.
§ 35.05 FIREFIGHTER’S RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   There is hereby continued in the city a firefighter’s relief
association, whose function is to manage service pension benefits for paid-on-
call firefighters, which are authorized under state statutes, and to provide
other services to paid-on-call firefighters of the city’s Fire Department as
deemed appropriate by members of the association.
   (B)   Any proposed change to the association’s bylaws or articles of
incorporation which will affect the benefits paid from the association’s
special fund shall not be effective until ratified by the City Council.
§ 35.06 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall utilize the national incident command system to
effectively and safely conduct emergency incident operations. The first
arriving fire officer shall be in command of Fire Department response functions
at the scene of any emergency incident until command is transferred to another
officer. The Fire Department commander on the scene of any emergency incident
shall coordinate with other emergency response agencies to ensure safe and
efficient operations.
§ 35.07 AUTHORITY AT EMERGENCY SCENES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or any fire officer or firefighter in charge at the
scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of life or property
shall have the authority to direct such operations as may be necessary to limit
or mitigate the threat of injury to persons, or damage to property or the
environment, extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation,
investigate the existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other
hazardous conditions or situations, or taking any other action necessary in the
reasonable performance of duty. In the exercise of such power, the Fire Chief
or any other fire officer or firefighter is authorized to prohibit any person,
vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or thing from approaching the scene and is
authorized to remove or cause to be removed, towed, or kept away from the scene
any person, vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or thing which may impede or interfere
with the operations of the Fire Department. Any person violating this section
shall be guilty of an offense punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or any fire officer or firefighter in charge at the
scene of an emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades, or
other obstructions across any street, highway, alley, place, or private
property in the vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or
interference with the lawful efforts of the Fire Department to manage and/or
control the situation.
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.08 INVESTIGATION OF EMERGENCY INCIDENTS.
   The Fire Chief shall investigate or cause to be investigated the cause,
origin, and circumstances of each and every fire occurring within the city
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 299F, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 35.09 MUTUAL AID.
   The Fire Chief or his or her designee is authorized to respond to requests
for mutual aid assistance in the form of Fire Department resources from any
political subdivision within the state, agencies of the state, and federal
agencies, for assistance within the state, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 12, as it may
be amended from time to time, provided the emergency response needs of the city
are not compromised and the City Administrator or his or her respective
designee is notified when city Fire Department personnel and/or resources shall
be committed to the mutual aid response in excess of 12 hours.
§ 35.10 SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Council may, by ordinance, set forth fees for
fire protection service and/or emergency response, which are not otherwise
specified by contract. Such fees may be established at a fixed rate for certain
specific types of incidents or for actual costs incurred by the Fire Department
in responding to the incident. The Fire Chief shall make a recommendation
annually to the City Administrator for approval by the Council regarding the
fee to be charged for each service noted in this section.
   (B)   False alarms. Fees for response to false fire alarms may be charged to
the property owner or tenant for any incident per Department policy.
   (C)   Impoundment of vehicles and property. The Fire Chief or his or her
designate is authorized to impound vehicles or property related to a fire and/
or hazardous materials release to be held in a secure location until such time
as payment is received for Fire Department response to the incident pursuant to
this division (C) and/or the vehicle or property may be transported without
further risk of injury to the public or damage to the environment.
§ 35.11 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.
   Section 505 of the 2015 Minnesota State Fire Code is hereby amended by
adding the following language:
   (1)   General.
      a.   Approved numbers or addresses in compliance with the requirements of
the city code shall be placed on all new and existing buildings in such a
position as to be plainly visible and legible from the street or road fronting
the property. Said numbers shall contrast with their background. Buildings,
which have a range of addresses for one building, shall display the range of
numbers or addresses from lowest to highest as required above.
      b.   Buildings with multiple tenants/addressees shall place approved
numbers or addresses on front and rear doors identifying each address in the
manner required in division (1)a. of this section.
      c.   Buildings that are remote/auxiliary from the main building shall
display approved numbers or addresses on each building in the manner required
in division (1)a. of this section and in such a manner as to be visible from
either direction of travel on the road or street fronting the property.
      d.   If any building is too remote from the fronting road or street to
make it unreasonable to be seen from the fronting road or street, a sign or
post with visible and legible approved numbers or addresses, or range of
numbers or addresses from lowest to highest, shall be placed at the driveway
entrance in such a manner that the numbers or addresses are visible from either
direction of travel on said road or street.
      e.   Approved numbers of addresses shall be placed on all construction
sites in such a position as to be plainly visible and legible from the street
or road fronting the property.
CLEANUP OF CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
§ 35.25 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce public
exposure to health risks where law enforcement officers have determined that
hazardous chemicals or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site  or
associated dump site may exist. Professional reports, based on assessments,
testing, and investigations, show that chemicals used in the production of
illicit drugs can condense, penetrate, and contaminate surfaces, furnishings,
and equipment of surrounding structures. The City Council finds that such
sites, and the personal property within such sites, may contain suspected
chemicals and residues that place people, particularly children or adults of
child  bearing age, at risk when exposed through inhabiting or visiting the
site or using or being exposed to contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application. In the interpretation and application
of this subchapter, the provisions herein shall be construed to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare. Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this subchapter are either more or less restrictive to the public
than comparable provisions imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements on the public shall prevail. Should any
court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or subpart of this
subchapter to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the provision declared
invalid.
§ 35.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL DUMP SITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation  have been located.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CITY. The City of Monticello.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance .
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation  exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures, or units, a chemical dump site , a vehicle, boat,
trailer, or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor in M.S. §
152.02 Schedules I through V, as they may be amended from time to time,
together with any amendments or modifications thereto. The term shall not
include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors, or
tobacco.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab operation .
   MANUFACTURE, IN PLACES OTHER THAN A PHARMACY. Includes the production,
cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical, physical,
chemical, or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm(s), corporation(s), or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site  or
chemical dump site .
§ 35.27 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property, or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site  are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance.
§ 35.28 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a
clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site , the site, and all personal
property herein, shall be declared a public health nuisance.
   (B)   Law enforcement authorities who identify conditions associated with a
clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site  which may place neighbors,
the visiting public, or present and future occupants of the site at risk for
exposure to harmful contaminants and other associated conditions are authorized
to take the following action:
      (1)   Promptly notify the  City  Building Official, child  protection,
public health authorities, and the appropriate enforcement division of the Drug
Enforcement Administration of the U.S. Justice Department of the location of
the site, and the owner  if known, of the conditions found;
      (2)   Treat, store, transport, or dispose of all hazardous waste  found
at the site in a manner consistent with State Department of Health, State
Pollution Control, and County Health Department Standard Operating Guidelines;
      (3)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary declaration of public health
nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the  City  Building
Official inspects the site and determines the appropriateness of issuing a
permanent declaration of public health nuisance;
      (4)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration
of public health nuisance has been issued;
      (5)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the
site, remove all pets from the site, and not return without written
authorization from the  City  Building Official;
      (6)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property
at the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
      (7)   Secure each doorway entrance to the site to reasonably prohibit
people from entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the
site have vacated.
   (C)   The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child  protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
§ 35.29 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site  is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer, or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported except to a more secure location. In such circumstances, all other
requirements of this subchapter shall be followed as closely as possible given
the specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
§ 35.30 ACTION BY CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Inspection and declaration of nuisance. Within 48 hours of
notification that law enforcement authorities have determined the existence of
a clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site , the  City  Building
Official shall inspect the site to determine the appropriate scope of a
permanent declaration of public health nuisance. Based on the results of the
inspection, the  City  Building Official or his or her designated
representative may then promptly issue a permanent declaration of public health
nuisance and a do not enter-unsafe to occupy order for the affected site to
replace the temporary declaration issued and posted by law enforcement. A copy
of the permanent declaration and order shall be posted on all doorway entrances
to the site or, in the case of bare land, shall be posted in several
conspicuous places on the property.
   (B)   Abatement order.
      (1)   After the permanent declaration of public health nuisance has been
issued and posted, the  City  Building Official shall send written notice to
the site owner  ordering abatement of the public health nuisance.
      (2)   The abatement order shall include the following information:
         (a)   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and do not
enter-unsafe to occupy order;
         (b)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the
site;
         (c)   Notification of suspension of the site’s rental license if
applicable;
         (d)   A summary of the site owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities
under this subchapter; and
         (e)   Information that may help the owner  locate appropriate services
necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The Building Official or appropriate city
staff shall also mail a copy of the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance, a copy of this subchapter, and a notification of the suspension of
the site’s rental licensees, if applicable, to the following, but not limited
to, concerned parties at their last known address:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site if the identities of such
persons are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The City Administrator;
      (4)    The Community Development Director;
      (5)   The City Police Department;
      (6)   The appropriate enforcement division of the Drug Enforcement
Administration of the U.S. Justice Department;
      (7)   The city  Fire Department; and
      (8)   Other city , state, and local authorities, such as the City Water
Department, the State Pollution Control Agency, the State Department of Health,
and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public and
protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The City Building Official is
authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance after
the Building Official receives documentation from a city  approved
environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that holds the necessary federal
and state licenses and meets all applicable regulations for hazardous materials
site remediation, packaging, and shipping stating that the suspected health and
safety risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling occupants,
either do not exist or have been sufficiently abated or corrected to justify
amendment or removal of the declaration.
§ 35.31 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within ten business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner  of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the City Building Official with written notification:
         (a)   The owner  has confirmed that all persons and their pets have
vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner  believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site  is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   The site will remain vacated and secured until the public health
nuisance is completely abated as required by this subchapter.
      (2)   Contract with one or more city  approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the
most current state department of health guidelines:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean-up of the site (including, but not limited to,
the clean up or removal of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures, and
contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean-up of the
demolished site;
         (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of
all personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean-up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including, but not
limited to, testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to State Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use of
the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to the
site.
      (3)   Provide the City Building Official with the identity of the testing
and cleaning firm with which the owner  has contracted for abatement of the
public health nuisance as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the City Building Official establishing a
clean-up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable deadlines for
completing all actions required by this subchapter for abatement of the public
health nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the City Building
Official shall consider practical limitations and the availability of
contractors in approving the schedule for clean-up.
   (B)   The site owner  must meet all deadlines established on the clean-up
schedule. Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean-up schedule,
the site owner is required to provide the City Building Official with written
documentation of the clean-up process, including a signed statement from a city
approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the site, all
personal property therein and all property and soil in proximity to the site,
is safe for human occupancy and use and that the clean-up was conducted in
accordance with the most current State Department of Health guidelines.
§ 35.32 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   The site owner  shall be responsible for all costs, including those of
the city , of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor’s fees and the city’s costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site  or chemical dump site  clean-up.
   (B)   The city’s costs may also include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Posting of the site;
      (2)   Notification of affected parties;
      (3)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
      (4)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
      (5)   Laboratory fees;
      (6)   Clean up services;
      (7)   Administrative fees;
      (8)   Legal fees; and
      (9)   Other associated costs.
§ 35.33 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   If the building owner  fails to comply with any of the requirements of
this subchapter, the City Building Official is authorized to take all
reasonable actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance including, but
not limited to, contracting with a city  approved environmental hazard testing
and cleaning firm that holds the necessary federal and state licenses and meets
all applicable regulations for hazardous materials site remediation, packaging,
and shipping in order conduct the work outlined in §
35.30(B). The Building Official is also authorized to provide a copy of the
declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage holders of
the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the site have
access to information about the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (B)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at
the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city  is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure, or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein. These
actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 463, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   If the city  abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of such costs for administrative and legal
expense. The city may recover costs by civil action against the owner  of the
site or by assessing such costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 463, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 35.34 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this subchapter are intended to limit the site owner’s,
resident’s, or the city’s right to recover costs incurred under this subchapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab, and/or from other lawful sources.
§ 35.35 SITE OWNER AND ADDRESS.
   When the site is real property and the owner  or the address of the owner of
the site is unknown, the owner and the owner’s address is deemed to be that of
the property’s taxpayer’s name and address as that information is maintained by
the County Auditor’s office. When the site is a vehicle, boat, or trailer and
the owner or the address of the owner of the site is unknown, the owner and the
owner’s address is deemed to be that of the person on file as the owner on the
current or most recent title to the vehicle, boat, or trailer.
§ 35.36 SUSPENSION OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE.
   Upon issuance of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance, any
residential rental license issued by the city  for the site, or any part
thereof, is hereby declared to be immediately suspended pending full compliance
with this subchapter.
§ 35.37 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized city  personnel, to remove
a temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance and/or do not
enter-unsafe to occupy order from a chemical dump site  or a clandestine drug
lab site .
Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.38 ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be inside
the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the City
Building Official or as otherwise authorized by this subchapter. To confirm
compliance with this subchapter and to execute their duties under this
subchapter, law enforcement officers, the City Building Official, and any
persons designated by the Building Official may enter onto the site property or
enter into the site at any time while a declaration of public health nuisance
is in effect for the site.
§ 35.39 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   (A)   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is
in effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the City Building Official.
   (B)   Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the
reasonable discretion of the Building Official, and only in cases of hardship
after:
      (1)   A city  approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
      (2)   The owner  of the personal property agrees in writing:
         (a)   The owner  is aware of the danger of using the contaminated
property;
         (b)   The owner  will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
         (c)   The owner  releases and agrees to indemnify the city , its
staff, and the City Council from all liability to the owner and/or third
persons for injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused, by the
contaminated property.
PUBLIC SAFETY 800 MHZ RADIO BUILDING AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM
§ 35.50 GENERAL.
   Except as otherwise provided, no person shall erect, construct, change the
use of, or provide an addition of more that 20% to, any building or structure
or any part thereof, or cause the same to be done which fails to support
adequate radio coverage for the Minnesota Regional Radio Communications System,
including, but not limited to, firefighters and police officers. This section
shall not apply to: buildings of less than 8,500 square feet; or any building
constructed of wood frame; provided none of the aforementioned buildings make
use of any metal construction or any below grade levels or parking areas. Any
part of any R-3 occupancy building, including below grade levels and parking
areas, are exempt from the requirements of this section. For the purposes of
this section, parking structures and stairwells are included in the definition
of BUILDING and stair shafts and elevators are included in the definition of
ALL PARTS OF THE BUILDING. For purposes of this section, ADEQUATE RADIO
COVERAGE shall be an average received field strength of no less than -93 dBm,
or 1% BER, measured at 30 to 36 inches above the floor over 90% of the area of
each floor and other critical areas determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire
Chief’s designee such as fire command centers, stairwells, elevators, high
hazard areas, basements, and parking areas. Without an in-building radio
system, only the received signal level standard must be achieved as the talk
out path is equivalent to the talk in path in this regional radio system.
§ 35.51 AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS ALLOWED.
   Buildings and structures which cannot support the required level of radio
coverage shall be equipped with either a radiating cable system or an internal
multiple antenna system with or without FCC type accepted bi-directional 800
MHZ amplification as needed. If amplification is used in the system, all
required FCC authorizations must be obtained prior to the use of the system. If
any part of the installed system or systems contains an electrically powered
component, the system shall be capable of operating on an independent battery
and/or generator system for a period of at least 12 hours without external
power input. The battery system shall automatically charge in the presence of
an external power input.
§ 35.52 TESTING PROCEDURES; ACCEPTANCE TEST PROCEDURE.
   With or without an in-building radio system, it will be the building owner’s
responsibility to have the regional radio system performance tested to ensure
that two-way coverage on each floor of the building is a minimum of 90% of the
total floor area and the critical areas designated.
   (A)   Talk-in from the regional radio system coverage testing.
      (1)   The talk-in coverage testing process shall be the same for
buildings with and without in- building amplification systems.
      (2)   During test measuring, the center of the test equipment receive
antenna shall be between 30 and 36 inches above the floor.
      (3)   On each floor of a building to be tested, the floor space, except
for designated critical areas, shall be divided into square or rectangular
areas of approximately the same size and shape. Each floor shall have at least
ten grid areas; however, the maximum size of grid areas shall not exceed 2,500
square feet. In buildings with support columns laid out in a grid, the corners
of the each grid may be arranged at the columns for ease in identifying grid
comers while testing is in progress. In buildings, such as a warehouse, with
large open areas, tests shall be conducted near the center of each grid
although the exact center may not be easily accessible due to the location of
large machinery, storage racks, and the like. In buildings with divided office
spaces, with or without floor to ceiling partitions, tests shall be conducted
in an office at or near the center of a grid. In buildings with a large open
area and an attached two-story, split level office or other area, the lower
level of the two-story, split level attachment shall be considered as an
extension of the large open area.
      (4)   In multi-story buildings and parking ramps, testing shall begin at
the lowest level, including any subgrade level(s), and continue up one floor at
a time. In-building amplification may only be required on the lowest level or
levels of a multi-story building or parking ramp.
      (5)   Average radio signal field strength shall be measured and recorded
in each grid, and in each designated critical area defined above. Average field
strength may be obtained through use of an instantaneous measuring instrument
and a computer that samples the actual field strength at very short time
intervals and averages the sample values. As an alternative, a field strength
measuring instrument with an analog or digital readout of average field
strength may also be used. Measurements shall be made while the measuring
instrument is moved over a distance of four to ten feet. If the average field
strength varies over the measurement path, the lowest (most negative) value
shall be recorded. The test instrumentation used shall have been calibrated
within the six-month period prior to the testing.
      (6)   The percentage of area passed shall be calculated as 100 times the
result of dividing the number of grids and critical areas that are at least at
-93 dBm or 1% BER by the total number of grids and critical areas tested.
      (7)   The donor antenna in an in-building amplification system may
receive up to 87 800 MHZ radio frequencies of approximately equal field
strength from the regional system, plus some others of approximately equal
field strength from other radio systems. At any time, the donor antenna may be
receiving at least 60 radio frequencies of approximately equal level in the
pass band ranges. For that reason, it shall be assumed that the output level of
talk-in amplifiers will be at + 3.2 dBm per channel maximum. Therefore, grid
and critical areas tests shall be conducted while the headend amplifier is
disconnected and a signal of + 3.2 dBm is inserted into the connector
downstream from the headend amplifier.
      (8)   Any in-building talk-in amplification system shall have pass band
filters before the input to the first (headend) amplifier that shall pass 806
to 817 MHZ and 821 to 824 MHZ only. In the future, within six months after
notification by the Fire Chief or his designee, the pass band filter frequency
range shall be changed in accordance with instructions, or an additional pass
band filter for 700 MHZ band frequencies shall be added. When the donor antenna
is installed, the average signal level received on the Hennepin East site
control channel shall be measured at the antenna connector. A signal at that
average received signal level shall be inserted into the cable to the headend
amplifier and filter while the output level of the headend amplifier is
measured, and the output level of the amplifier shall be set at + 29 + 1 dBm.
      (9)   Alternative in-building amplification systems that do not involve
broadband pass band filters will be accepted provided that similar testing can
be demonstrated.
   (B)   Talk-out to the regional radio system testing.
      (1)   With an in-building amplification system, the talk-out (to the
regional 800 MHZ radio system) shall be measured at the same grid and critical
area locations as the talk-in measurements were made. The measurements shall be
made using a three-watt portable radio with a well-charged battery to transmit
into the in-building radio system while field strength is measured out of the
connector that is normally attached to the donor antenna. To pass, the field
strength at the donor antenna shall be the measured value at the connector plus
the donor antenna gain and minus a free space loss factor. The free space loss
factor shall be -93 dB for a distance of one mile to the nearest Hennepin East
base radio location, adjusted by 6 dB each time the distance is halved or
doubled. The acceptable range for passing shall be between -65 and -95 dBm.
      (2)   (a)   Gain values of all amplifiers shall be measured and the test
measurement results shall be kept on file with the building owner so that the
measurements can be verified each year during the annual tests.
         (b)   In the event that the measurement results become lost, the
building owner will be required to rerun the acceptance test to reestablish the
gain values.
§ 35.53 ANNUAL TESTS.
   When an in-building radio system is required, the building owner shall test
all active components of the system, including, but not limited to, amplifiers,
power supplies, and backup batteries, a minimum of once every 12 months.
Amplifiers shall be tested to ensure that the gain is the same as it was upon
initial installation and acceptance. Backup batteries and power supplies shall
be tested under load for a period of one hour to verify that they will properly
operate during an actual power outage. If within the one-hour test period, in
the opinion of the testing technician, the battery exhibits symptoms of
failure, the test shall be extended for additional one-hour periods until the
testing technician confirms the integrity of the battery. All other active
components shall be checked to determine that they are operating within the
manufacturer’s specifications for the intended purpose.
§ 35.54 FIVE-YEAR TESTS.
   In addition to the annual test, the building owner shall perform a radio
coverage test a minimum of once every five years to ensure that the radio
system continues to meet the requirements of the original acceptance test. A
radio test shall also be performed whenever there is a change in or to the
building that may have an impact on coverage. Examples of the types of changes
that may change radio coverage are interior remodeling that adds and/or changes
partitions, removal of windows, and the addition of metalized treatment to
window surfaces. The procedure described in section shall be used for these
tests.
§ 35.55 QUALIFICATIONS OF TESTING PERSONNEL.
   (A)   All tests shall be conducted, documented, and signed by qualified and
competent personnel that includes: persons in possession of a current FCC
license; or a current technician certification issued by the Associated Public-
Safety Communications Officials International (APCO) or the Personal
Communications Industry Association (PCIA); or a qualified radio engineer
licensed as a registered professional engineer by the State of Minnesota.
Testing personnel shall have test equipment that is appropriate for the testing
procedure, and that test equipment shall have been calibrated within six months
prior to the testing.
   (B)   All test records shall be retained on the inspected premises by the
building owner and a copy shall be submitted to Fire Department officials.
§ 35.56 FIELD TESTING.
   Fire and police personnel, after providing reasonable notice to the owner or
the owner’s representative, shall have the right to enter onto the property to
conduct testing to be certain that the required level of radio coverage is
present.
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
35.01 through
35.11 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.25 through
35.39 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
in accordance with §
10.99. Each act of violation and every day upon which a violation occurs or
continues shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the above, the
city may seek civil penalties and enforcement.
CHAPTER 36: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
§ 36.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fee schedule rates supersede amounts shown in city ordinances or policies
which are dated prior to the fee schedule.
ANIMAL CONTROL
Boarding fee                                                                  $24/per day for contracted cities
                                                                              $26/per day for individuals
Boarding access fee                                                           $250 per entity
Dog license                                                                   $20 - 2 years
                                                                              $10 - 1 year
   Late fee                                                                $5
   Replacement tag                                                         $2 + tax
Disposal fee                                                                  $250 (euthanized animal)
                                                                             $40 (adopted animal)
                                                                             Licensed       Unlicensed
Fine: Running at large                                                        $50            $75
   If impounded                                                            Add boarding fee (plus tax)
Renewal permit for large animal permit application                            $75
   Annual renewal for current permit                                       $25
Permit for keeping fowl on premises                                           $50
   Annual renewal for current permit                                       $25
Permit for keeping honeybees on premises                                      $50
   Annual renewal of permit                                                $25
CEMETERY
Bronze memorial marker setting with 4" concrete border                        $450
Columbarium (includes 2 interment niche covers w/ name, YOB, YOD) *if pre-    Resident       Non-Resident
planning additional fee for death date
   Bottom niche row (Row A) - 2 remains max                                $2,540         $2,640
   Middle niche rows (Rows B and C) - 2 remains max                        $2,740         $2,840
   Top niche row (Row D) - 2 remains max                                   $2,940         $3,040
   *Death date (individual)                                                $160           $160
   *Death date (double)                                                    $185           $185
Companion urn grave excavation
   Weekday                                                                 $300
   Weekend                                                                 $400
Cremation disinterment
   Weekday                                                                 $200
   Weekend                                                                 $250
Frost charge: (excavations November through March)                            $150
Grave excavation fee:
   Weekday                                                                 $550
   Weekend                                                                 $650
   Infant grave excavation - weekday                                       $200
   Infant grave excavation - weekend                                       $250
   Cremation grave excavation - weekday                                    $200
   Cremation grave excavation - weekend                                    $250
Grave purchasing fee:                                                         Resident                               Non-Resident
   Full grave (4 ft. x 12 ft.) flush marker area                           $1,200                                 $1,400
   Full grave (4 ft. x 12) raised marker area                              $1,300                                 $1,500
   Infant grave (2 ft. x 6 ft.)                                            $475                                   $475
   Cremation grave (4 ft. x 4 ft.)                                         $700                                   $800
Grave staking fee for burials                                                 $150
Grave transfer fee                                                            $15
Late arrival to gravesite fee                                                 $250
Memorial bench                                                                $2,500
Memorial plaque (bronze) stone                                                Cost + $10 + sales tax
Memorial tree                                                                 $600
Opening/closing/re-opening of niche
   Weekday                                                                 $150
   Weekend                                                                 $200
Ossuary
   Co-mingle urn placement (includes inscription and urn bag)              $1,000
   Veteran co-mingle urn placement (includes inscription and urn bag)      $950
   Service emblem                                                          $200
Overtime fee (burials outside of business hours)                              $125
Perpetual care fee:
   New grave sales                                                         Included in grave price (maint. not taxable - plant care taxable)
   Grave sold pre-1996                                                     $175
Plant stand                                                                   $50
Satin bag                                                                     $100
Staking for monument/marker placement                                         $70
Urn vase                                                                      $100
COMMUNITY CENTER
Membership fees: (for new members)                                            Resident Rate  Non-Resident Rate       MERSC/Military Rate
Daily pass:                                                                   $8.50          $9.50
   Junior/senior                                                           $9.50          $10.50
   Adult
Three month membership:                                                       $106           $133                    $93
   Junior/senior                                                           $148           $184                    $129
   Adult                                                                   $173           $216                    $151
   Dual senior                                                             $260           $326                    $228
   Family                                                                  $237           $295                    $207
   Dual adult
Annual membership (paid in full options):                                     $287           $359                    $251
   Junior/senior                                                           $392           $492                    $344
   Adult                                                                   $473           $592                    $415
   Dual senior                                                             $667           $832                    $583
   Family                                                                  $607           $758                    $531
   Dual adult
Continuous membership (monthly payment option**):                             $28            $35
   Junior/senior                                                           $42            $54                     $25
   Adult                                                                   $47            $59                     $37
   Dual senior                                                             $35            $35                     $41
   MCC Staff membership upgrade                                            $68            $85                     $60
   Family                                                                  $62            $77                     $55
   Dual adult                                                              $35            $35                     $35
   NSF fee (if membership is not paid within the month)
**Automatic withdrawal
Collection fee - applies if sent to a collection service for delinquent       $55
payments (automatic withdrawal)
Administrative fee for start-up of new monthly memberships (one- time fee) if $30            $30
membership is not cancelled
Cancellation fee - applies if within 12 months of joining                     $55            $55
Childcare hourly fees                                                         $2 per child/per hour member, $4 per child per hour non-member
                                                                              Resident Rate  Non-Resident Rate
Special passes:
   Daily pass (10 visits)                                                  $80            $90
Special rates:
   Indoor play area                                                        $5             $6
   Open skate                                                              $6             $6
   Shower only                                                             -              $4
   Group x class drop-in                                                   $13            $13
   Silver sneakers drop-in                                                 $10            $10
   Lock-in                                                                 $1,125/up to 40 people + $10 each
   Climbing wall group                                                     $130/up to 14 climbers + $8 each addition climber
   Farmers market vendor fee                                               $60 - $135/season based on booth type
   Concessions                                                             Rates based on market value
   Academy room non-profit allowed usage                                      Once/month up to 2 hours, then $25/hour
MCC league rates                                                                 Regular Rate
   Fall youth baseball                                                        $50/hour for one field (volunteer umpires)
   Flag football                                                              $70/hour for one field with lights (volunteer referees)
   Hockey                                                                     $240/hour for one rink (with paid referees)
   Pickleball                                                                 $50/hour for one court (with no referees)
Swimming lessons/birthday parties
   Private swimming lessons                                                $33/lesson for $46/lesson for non-     Additional rates available for
                                                                              members        members                 more than one
   Swimming lessons (group)                                                $70 for        $85 for non-members
                                                                              members
                                                                              Resident rate/
                                                                              child $18 -    Regular rate/child $20
   Birthday party room rental packages                                     $21 depending  - $23 depending on
                                                                              on rental      rental package
                                                                              package
Gymnasium rental rates:
   Gym - regular                                                              $135/hour
   Gym - non-profit                                                           $110/hour
   Full kitchen                                                               $150
   Energy fee                                                                 $150
   Gym advertising banner                                                     $500/first year rental, $400/
                                                                              subsequent years
   Damage deposit                                                             1/2 of rental fees
Pool rental                                                                      $300/hour up to 25 swimmers
                                                                              Additional staff fee: $30/hour (increments of 25 swimmers
Kitchen program hourly rate                                                   $20   
Kitchen program cleaning fee                                                  $100
Hourly room rental rates (2-hour minimum required):                           Resident/No n- Non-Resident
                                                                              Profit
   Boom island room                                                        $25            $30
   Bridge room (half)                                                      $25            $30
   Bridge room (full)                                                      $40            $50
   Warehouse room                                                          $55            $65
   River room                                                              $20            $25
   Prairie center                                                          $55            $65
   Mississippi room:                                                       Private           Private Non-ResideBusiness Business Regular
                                                                              Resident                               Resident
      Half room rental                                                  $85               $105              $75      $105
      Full room rental                                                  $120              $140              $105     $140
      Rental event with alcohol (not weddings):                         Resident       Regular                 Organization
       (2 hour minimum - reserve within 3 months of event)              $150/hour      $165/hour               $135/hour
   Wedding                                                                 $1,430         $1,430
   Bar fee                                                                 $250           $250
   Preferred caterer fee                                                   12% wedding    8% non- wedding
   Chapel                                                                  $595 for 6     $632 for 6 hours        Then $65 each additional hour
                                                                              hours
Hostess fee                                                                   $35/hour
Locker fees                                                                   $10 per month per locker/members only
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT - BUILDING
County Assessor fees:                                                         $60
   Building valuation $499,999 or less                                     $160
   Building valuation $500,000 or more
Basement finish                                                               106% of 1997 state recommended schedule
Building inspection (non-permit related)                                      $60/hour
                                                                              $15 minimum charge for 15 minutes or less
Building permit fees                                                          106% of 1997 state recommended schedule
Building permit surcharge                                                     Use state-mandated fee
Building re-inspection fee (after 2nd failed                                  $60
inspection)
Contractor license check fee                                                  $5
Building permit/records - duplicate                                           $60/hour
                                                                              $15 minimum charge for 15 minutes or less
Blight processing fee                                                         $60 (per parcel)
Demolition permit                                                             106% of 1997 state recommended schedule ($500 maximum fee)
   Permit is issued under a building permit (follow same procedures as issuing a building permit). Prior to demolition permit issuance verify with
Public Works. Contractor must arrange disconnection: 1) sanitary sewer; 2) city water and retrieve water meter; and 3) approve routing for trucks and
heavy equipment, (if applicable). Excavation permit may also be required.
Fire alarm/fire sprinkler system                                              106% of 1997 state recommended schedule or $100 minimum + state surcharge
Food truck inspections                                                        $50/annual fee
Master plan review                                                            25% of building permit fee
Mechanical permits:                                                           $50 base + $9/fixture + state surcharge
   Residential                                                             1.5% of valuation or $100 minimum+ state surcharge
   Commercial
Mobile home permit                                                            $200
Moving buildings                                                              $150 + expense + demolition permit
Plan review                                                                   65% of building permit fee
Non-single family as-built survey escrow                                      Contractor must provide an escrow amount of 125% of the written cost of
                                                                              the as-built survey, before issuance of building permit
Plumbing permits:                                                             $50 base + $9/fixture (“Fixture” includes such things as traps, toilets,
   Residential                                                             floor drains, sinks, showers)
   Commercial                                                              1.5% of valuation or $100 minimum+ state surcharge
Rental application/records-duplicate                                          $60/hour
                                                                              $15 minimum charge for 15 minutes or less
Rental housing license fee                                                    $45/per building + $15 for each dwelling unit within the building
Rental housing license application/late fee                                   Double the standard license fee
Rental housing license transfer fee                                           $35
Rental re-inspection fee (after 2nd failed inspection)                        $60
                                                                              $2,000 (Held for completion of as-built survey, boulevard trees, turf
Residential building escrow                                                   establishment. Secures street sweeping, lot erosion control, and any
                                                                              damage to public improvements if all items not complete/satisfied at
                                                                              certificate of occupancy. All must be completed prior to release.)
Re-roof (residential)                                                         $150 + state surcharge
Re-side (residential)                                                         $150 + state surcharge
Solar systems: commercial/industrial                                          $106% of 1997 state recommended schedule + state surcharge
Solar systems: residential                                                    $300 + state surcharge
Swimming pools - above ground                                                 $150 + state surcharge
Swimming pools - in ground                                                    $300 + state surcharge
Window and/or door replacement (residential)                                  $150 + state surcharge
Sign permits: permanent                                                       $50 for first $1,000 of value (minimum fee $50)
                                                                              $10 each additional $1,000 of value
Sign permits: temporary                                                       $50 regular fee/$100 if city initiated
State surcharge on building permits:
   Valuation of structure                                                  Addition or alteration surcharge computation
$1,000,000 or less                                                            .0005 x valuation
$1,000,000 to $2,000,000                                                      $500 + .0004 x (value - $ 1,000,000)
$2,000,000 to $3,000,000                                                      $900 + .0003 x (value - $2,000,000)
$3,000,000 to $4,000,000                                                      $1,200 + .0002 x (value - $3,000,000)
$4,000,000 to $5,000,000                                                      $1,400 + .0001 x (value - $4,000,000)
Greater than $5,000,000                                                       $1,500 + .00005 x (value - $5,000,000)
Surveys                                                                       $15
Utility locate fee:                                                           $50
   Residential                                                             $65
   Commercial/industrial
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   Business subsidy application                                            $250 application fee
   Tax abatement application                                               $250 + $10,000 escrow deposit
   GMEF loan application                                                   $550 minimum or 1.5% of loan amount, whichever is greater
   SCDP loan application                                                   $550 minimum or 1.5% of loan amount, whichever is greater
   TIF application                                                         $250 application fee + $15,000 escrow deposit
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT - PLANNING/ZONING
Administrative home occupation permit                                         $50
Comprehensive plan amendment                                                  $250 + escrow (per chart)*
                                                                              Escrow waived for cross/joint parking in CCD
Conditional use permit                                                        $250 + escrow (per chart)*
Encroachment/license agreements                                               $50
Escrow chart - land use application plan review
                                                                              Commercial                                      Residential
                                                                              0 - 3 acres    $2,000                           1     $1,000 single-
                                                                                                                              unit  family
                                                                              4 - 10 acres   $6,000                                 $1,000 base + $100
                                                                                                                              2+    per unit (up to
                                                                              11+ acres      $8,000                           units $10,000)

                                                                              *All escrows reconciled to actual costs for staff/consulting time after
                                                                              decision, whichever is greater
                                                                              City/planning review and               1% of estimated public improvement
Escrow chart - development and subdivision project                            administration                         cost or $2,000 minimum, whichever
                                                                                                                     is greater*
                                                                              Legal review   1% of estimated public improvement cost or $2,000 minimum,
                                                                              and            whichever is greater*
                                                                              administration
                                                                              Engineering;
                                                                              grading -      3% of estimated site grading cost or $2,000 minimum,
                                                                              review and     whichever is greater
                                                                              inspection
                                                                              Engineering;
                                                                              streets and    4% of estimated public improvement cost or $2,000 minimum,
                                                                              utilities -    whichever is greater
                                                                              review and
                                                                              inspection
                                                                              *All escrows reconciled to actual costs for staff/consulting time after
                                                                              decision, whichever is greater
EAW/AUAR preparation and administrative escrow                                $15,000 minimum with final escrow amount established per required escrow
                                                                              agreement and reconciled to actual costs
Wetland boundary/type or wetland delineation review escrow                    $50 application fee/$500 escrow deposit (reconciled to actual costs)
Wetland permit (no loss, replacement/bank/other) and MnRAM review escrow      $50 application fee/$1,000 escrow deposit (reconciled to actual costs)
Iron monuments                                                                $300/lot
Interim use permit                                                            $250 + escrow (per chart)*
Labor (for community development/projects):                                   $188/hour
   Planner                                                                 $251/hour (maximum)
   Engineer                                                                $152/hour (maximum)
   Construction Inspector
Landscaping security                                                          Letter of credit or cash based on statement of value of landscaping x
                                                                              125% (held for 1 full year or 2 growing seasons)
As-built grading and improvements security                                    Escrow amount of 125% of the written estimated cost of the as-built
                                                                              survey
                                                                              An amount of land equal to 11% of the total gross land area of the plat
                                                                              shall be presumptively defined as “reasonably commensurate”. In the event
Park dedication (residential)                                                 that the subdivider objects to the 11% standard, the city shall, at the
                                                                              developer’s request and expense, conduct a specific dedication study of
                                                                              the park system and the demand placed on the system by the proposed plat.
                                                                              Cash-in-lieu: 11% of fair market value of the raw land to be platted at
Park dedication (residential)                                                 the time of final plat. The city may require an appraisal to determine
                                                                              market value of subject land being platted.
Parking fund (CCD District)                                                   $4,500 per stall
Plat subdivisions:                                                            $300 + escrow (per chart) $2,000 minimum*
   Preliminary plat                                                        $50 + escrow (per chart)*
   Final plat
Planned Unit Developments (PUDs):                                             $50 + $3,500 escrow
   Concept                                                                 $200 + escrow (per chart) ($2,000 minimum)
   Development                                                             $50 + escrow (per chart)
   Final                                                                   $50 + $1,000 escrow
   Adjustment                                                              *All escrows reconciled to actual costs for staff/consulting time after
                                                                              decision, whichever is greater
Points at Cedar Planned Unit Developments (PUDs) land use application review: $50 + $3,500 escrow
   Concept                                                                 $200 + escrow (per chart) ($2,000 minimum)
   Development sign permit
Public ROW or easement vacation                                               $250 + escrow (per chart)*
Rezoning request (text amendment)                                             $400
Rezoning (map amendment)                                                      $400 + escrow (per chart)*
Simple subdivision/administrative lot combination/lot line adjustment         $200 + escrow (per chart)*
Wetland delineation review                                                    $50 application fee/$1,000 escrow + actual review costs
Special home occupation permits                                               $200 + escrow (per chart)*
Special Planning Commission meeting                                           $350
Temporary use permit (waived for parades only)                                $50
Variances:
   Residential, 1 unit                                                     $250 + $1,000 escrow*
   Residential, 2 units                                                    $250 + escrow (per chart)*
   Commercial/industrial/institutional                                     $250 + escrow (per chart)*
                                                                             *All escrows reconciled to actual costs for staff/consulting time after
                                                                              decision, whichever is greater
NOTE: When multiple land use applications are run concurrently, only one application fee and escrow deposit shall be required per meeting cycle, until
escrow is depleted. New escrow required per escrow chart once depleted.
ENGINEERING
Driveway permit                                                               $55
Construction inspection (city or engineer)                                    $152/hour
GPS locate fee (new subdivisions)                                             $70/unit
Grading permit:
   Existing single-family residential                                      $75 per permit + $1,500/acre restoration surety bond
                                                                              No drainage calculation review required:
   New single-family residential development                                  $150 per permit plus restoration surety bond of $3,000/per acre;
                                                                                 $3,000 minimum escrow
                                                                              Drainage calculation review required:
   Multi-dwelling, commercial and industrial properties                       $350 per permit plus restoration surety bond of $3,000/first acre;
                                                                                 $1,500 each additional acre
Erosion and sediment control inspection escrow                                $300 x weeks of construction - sites disturbing 1 acre or more w/NPDES
                                                                              construction stormwater permit
Land reclamation/mining permit (requires subdivision development agreement or Fee determined by City Council resolution + 100% of land restoration
CUP)                                                                          costs as determined by City Engineer
Public improvement security                                                   Letter of credit or cash based on statement of construction cost of
                                                                              improvements x 125%
Right-of-way permits
   Drops - no drawing required unless origination occurs more than 10 feet from property to be served:
      Fee w/out drawings                                                $30/25 addresses (maximum)
      Fee with drawings                                                 $30/5 addresses with drawings (maximum)
      Permit extension fee                                              $20
   Pavement hole fee                                                       $55
   Trunk line fee
      Base fee (first 100 feet)                                         $45
      Trenching (over 100 feet)                                         $0.10/lineal foot
      Boring (over 100 feet)                                            $0.05/lineal foot
   Obstruction fee                                                         $45
   Small cell wireless fee                                                 $45
   Collocation fees
      Escrow - document review                                          $1,500
      Wireless support structure rent                                   $150/year
      Wireless support structure maintenance                            $25/year
FIRE DEPARTMENT
Apparatus                                                                        Rate per Hour (billed in hour increments)
   Engine (up to 4 personnel)                                              $275
   Ladder/aerial (up to 4 personnel)                                       $275
   Water tender (up to 2 personnel)                                        $200
   Command vehicle/utility truck/grass truck (up to 2 personnel)           $85
   ATV/UTV with water tank (up to 2 personnel)                             $50
Extra personnel                                                               $15/ hour
Controlled/prescribed burns
   Building                                                                $2,500
   Prairie or wildland, less than 20 acres                                 $750/hour
   Prairie or wildland, 20 acres or more                                   $1,000/hour
County-wide response teams
   Special response unit                                                   $500
   Fire investigation team                                                 $300
False alarm policy*
   - first time                                                            No charge
   - second time                                                           $250
   - third time or more                                                    $350
   * Per calendar year
Fire lock box fee                                                             Cost + 10% + sales tax
LICENSES/PERMITS
Burning permit (to cover expenses, if PW/Fire Dept. are called to burn site)  $250 deposit
Cigarette license                                                             Tobacco licenses are issued by Wright County
Gambling license                                                              Licensed through the state; requires Council approval
Liquor administrative fines:                                                  $500
   First violation                                                         $1,000
   Second violation, within 2 years                                        $2,000 (no mandatory revocation of license)
   Third violation, within 2 years
Liquor licenses:
   1-day consumption and display                                           $25
   3.2 beer, on-sale                                                       $275/year
   3.2 beer, off-sale                                                      $100/per year
   Brew pub, off-sale                                                      $200/per year
   Brewer taproom                                                          $500/per year
      Taproom, Sunday sales                                             $0
   Liquor, on-sale                                                         $3,750/per year
   On-sale liquor, Sunday sales                                            $200 (statutory limit)
   Liquor, setups                                                          $250/year
   Liquor, club (veteran’s org):
Membership
200 or less                                                                   $300 (statutory limit)
201 - 500                                                                     $500 (statutory limit)
501 - 1,000                                                                   $650 (statutory limit)
1,001 - 2,000                                                                 $800 (statutory limit)
2,001 - 4,000                                                                 $1,000 (statutory limit)
Over 4,000                                                                    $2,000 (statutory limit)
   Microdistillery                                                         $500/per year
   Temporary on-sale (beer)                                                $10/day
   Wine, on-sale                                                           $275/per year
   Wine/strong beer comb. on-sale                                          $1,200/per year
   Wine/3.2 beer comb. on-sale                                             $500/per year
Mobile food unit
   Daily permit                                                            $25
   Annual permit                                                           $75
   Annual fire inspection                                                  $50
Pawn shop
   Annual license, initial                                                 $50
   Annual renewal of current license                                       $25/year
Peddler/solicitor permit:
Peddler merchant/business application                                         $25
Peddler merchant permit - per person                                          $25
   Background check                                                        $25
Solicitor permit                                                              No fee
Sidewalk café fee                                                            $100
                                                                              $50
Special event permit                                                          $25 (For non-profit/charitable organization)
Park special permit fee - alcohol, music, larger events                       (fee may be waived by Administration for non-profit organizations)
                                                                              $60
                                                                              (not utilizing city services)
Therapeutic massage license
   Massage enterprise license                                              $100/per year
   Massage therapist license                                               $50/per year
   Massage enterprise/therapist - owner operates as therapist - one fee    $100/per year
   Background investigation fee                                            $25
Transient merchant
   Annual permit, private premises                                         $75/year
      Daily fees, operating under annual permit                         $10/day (with annual permit)
   Daily fees, independent merchant                                        $50/day
   Daily fees, farm/garden fruits and vegetables                           No fee from 6/15 to 9/15 (state mandated)
   Fireworks sale                                                          $350/year
   Traveling shows                                                         $100/first day; $50/day for each day thereafter
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS
Accounts receivable                                                           1.5% monthly
   Interest charge on misc. accounts receivable
Advertising - banner program
   First year advertising contract for MCC Banner displays                 $500
   Renewal of annual advertising contract for MCC Banner displays          $400
   3' x 5' banner creation at Franklin Signs, Clearwater, MN               $125
Assessment/property search - full                                             $30
Non-city initiated proclamations                                              $50
Comprehensive guide plan - entire                                             $32 plus tax
   Downtown revitalization plan                                            $15 plus tax
   Transportation plan                                                     $50 plus tax
Copies: copy machine                                                          $0.25 per copy + sales tax (over 25 pages; does not apply to DMV
                                                                              paperwork)
   Large format copier                                                     $0.50/square foot + sales tax ($2 minimum)
   Emailed                                                                 $35/hour + sales tax (minimum 1/4 hour)
   Electronic media                                                        $10 + cost of media + sales tax
Delinquent certification processing fee:                                      $75 per parcel
   Minimum account balance of $75
Delinquent list                                                               $10 + tax (each)
Deposits on city repair projects                                              $100 - $300 (depending on est. value of work)
Digital advertising                                                           $800/6 months or $1,500 annually       (15 sec/10 to 15 minute interval)
   Ads                                                                     Additional spots $1,000
                                                                           $3,500/annually - back-to-back slides for 45 seconds
   Ad change                                                               $50
   Ad creation                                                             $250
Library room rental                                                           $30 per rental
Notary                                                                        $3 each
Signs                                                                         Current listed price + 10% handling charge + tax
Utility bill                                                                  5% of past due amount
   Utility bill penalty - monthly                                          $0.50
   Utility - e-bill discount                                               $1.25
   Utility - ACH payment discount
PARKS
                                                                              $80+tax per 1/2 hour for the first 2 hours billed in 1/2 hour increments
Chipping                                                                      $100+tax per 1/2 hour or for the next hour billed in 1/2 hour increments
                                                                              No more than 3 hours per year per property
                                                                              $100 per
                                                                              property (two
Disease replacement tree                                                      trees ordered
                                                                              off spring
                                                                              tree program)
Community garden plot                                                         $45
                                                                               
                                                                              $2,500
Memorials:                                                                    (includes tax,
   Bench                                                                   delivery,
   Tree                                                                    installation)
                                                                              $600 (includes
                                                                              tax, delivery,
                                                                              installation)
                                                                                                                     For-profit
Facility rental fees:                                                                                                $50 per hour
   Single field reservation                                                Non-profit                             per field
   Field lighting                                                          $40 per hour per field                 $30 per hour
   Season rental - 20 game hours                                           $25 per hour per field                 per field
   Season rental lighting - 20 game hours                                  $800 per field                         $1,000 per
   Tournament field rental including                                       $340 per field                         field           
    lights per day                                                         $145 per field                         $450 per field
   Soccer/football/lacrosse - non-                                         $47 per hour per field                 $175 per field
    irrigated                                                              $90 per hour per field                 $60 per hour
   Soccer/football/lacrosse - irrigated                                                                           per field
                                                                                                                     $105 per hour
                                                                                                                     per field
Park rental rates:                                                            Resident       Non-Resident
   East Bridge Gazebo                                                      $80 for 6      $100 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   Ellison Log Shelter                                                     $150 for 6     $170 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   Ellison Park Lions Den/Gazebo                                           $320           $350
   Groveland Park Picnic Shelter                                           $110 for 6     $130 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   Otter Creek                                                             $80 for 6      $100 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   Pioneer Park                                                            $160 for 6     $180 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   West Bridge Park Community room                                         $200 for 6     $220 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
   West Bridge Picnic Shelter                                              $120 for 6     $140 for 6 hours
                                                                              hours
                                                                             *Non-Profit Exempt M.-Th., F.-Sun. Res
                                                                              Rate
Sponsor a planter                                                             $100
PUBLIC WORKS
Cone replacement                                                              Cost + $10 + sales tax
Labor (no equipment)                                                          $65/hour - regular business hours
                                                                              $100/hour - outside of regular hours
Sidewalk snow and ice control processing fee                                  $50 per lot - 1st offense
                                                                              $75 per lot - 2nd offense
Sweeping                                                                      $275/hour - includes operator
Utility excavation permit fee (water, wastewater, stormwater)                 $130
(bonding and insurance required)
Vac/sewer jet                                                                 $465/hour for two operators and machine
Other equipment (including operator):                                         $270/hour
   Large front end loaders                                                 $225/hour
   Mid size loaders                                                        $270/hour
   Backhoe loader                                                          $300/hour
   Motor grader                                                            $225/hour
   Skid steere                                                             $220/hour
   Dump truck                                                              $200/hour
   Pick up or 1-ton truck                                                  $225/hour
   Sidewalk snow removal equipment
SANITARY SEWER
Sewer rates: 1st 1,000 gallons                                                $11.20 minimum
       Over 1,000 gallons                                               $6.88/1,000 gallons
Sewer rates: special cases                                                    $10 per month x number of people in household
Industrial sewer rates (effective July 1, 2024):                              $4.26/1,000 gallons + sales tax
   All usage                                                               $0.460/lb + sales tax
   BOD5                                                                    $0.632/lb + sales tax
   TSS                                                                     Actual costs + 10%
   Testing
Sewer and water combination permit                                            $130 (residential)
                                                                              $130 plus sales tax (commercial)
Sewer access charge                                                           $4,833/unit
   Residential - single-family                                             $4,833/unit
   All others per unit equivalent
SAC fees in effect at time of building permit application will apply if application has been submitted within 6 months of rate changes.
Trunk sanitary sewer                                                          $1,741/unit
   Residential unit                                                        $4,396/acre
   Non-residential
Waste water discharge permit:                                                 $50 annually
   10,000 to 15,000 GPD                                                    $100 annually
   15,001 to 25,000 GPD                                                    $150 annually
   25,001 to 50,000 GPD                                                    $250 annually
   50,001 to 100,000 GPD                                                   $300 annually
   Over 100,000 GPD
STORM SEWER
Trunk storm sewer fees                                                        $4,664 (net acre)
   Alternate ponding area - residential                                    $4,779 per acre
   Alternate ponding area - commercial                                     $9,580 per acre
   Alternate ponding area - industrial                                     $11,197 per acre
STORMWATER UTILITY
   Residential (1 drainage unit per residential unit)                      $4.75/drainage unit/month
   Non-residential (7 drainage units per impervious acre - minimum 7)      $4.75/drainage unit/month
WASTE ITEMS
Garbage service fees
   All residential garbage with cart service:
      1st container                                                     $10.90/month + solid waste tax effective 2/1/2025
                                                                        $13/month + solid waste tax
      2nd container
Cart transfer fee                                                             Cost
Garbage cart replacement (if lost or stolen):                                 Cost + tax + $10
Recycle cart replacement (if lost or stolen):                                 Cost + tax + $10
Recycling service fee                                                         $5.78 effective 2/1/2025
WATER
Hydrant rates for contractors
   (1, 2, 3 are all taxable if commercial)
   1.   All contractors must obtain a permit from Public Works. The permit fee is $50. This permit will define the hydrant to be used and provides a
tally sheet for water usage. Contractors found taking water without a permit or meter will be charged a $500 fine. The fine will be charged at the
first and each subsequent offense.
   2.   The following rates shall apply:                                $50
      Permit fee                                                        $4.25/1,000 gallons
      All usage                                                         $25 per week
      Hydrant meter rental                                              $500
      Theft of water
   3.   The following deposits shall be taken for use of city equipment (no exceptions):
      Water                                                             $500
      Hydrant wrench                                                    $100
      2 1/2 in. fill hose                                               $150
      1 1/2 in. fill hose with 2 1/2 in. adapter                        $150
      2 1/2 in. hydrant meter                                           $1,500
      5/8" x 3/4 in. and garden hose meter                              $250
      Nozzle/misc. fitting                                              $75
      *If equipment is returned within 10 days of permit expiration in good condition, the full amount of meter deposit, shall be refunded less water
consumption at rates shown above.
Cross-connection surcharges per billing period:
 
   Inspection not completed - residential up to four-plex                  $150 per unit
   Inspection not completed - residential with more than 4 units and non-  $600
residential
   Correction not made - residential up to four-plex                       $150 per unit
   Correction not made - residential with more than 4 units and non-       $600
residential
Industrial water rate, mtr 1 (effective July 1, 2024)
   All usage                                                               $2.93/1,000 gallons + sales tax
Final bill processing fee                                                     $25
Obsolete or refusal of equipment charge (per month charge until MIU is        $50
installed)
Delinquent sprinkling meter turn-off                                          $25
Delinquent sprinkling meter turn-on                                           $25
Res/Irrigation Water:                                                         $10.31 minimum
   first 1,000 gallons                                                     $2.41/1,000 gallons
   1,001 - 6,500 gallons                                                   $2.79/1,000 gallons
   6,501 - 11,500 gallons                                                  $3.07/1,000 gallons
   11,501 - 16,500 gallons                                                 $3.32/1,000 gallons
   16,501 - 33,000 gallons                                                 $3.56/1,000 gallons
   over 33,000 gallons                                                     $10.31 minimum + sales tax
Commercial Water:                                                             $2.41/1,000 gallons + sales tax
   first 1,000 gallons                                                     $2.79/1,000 gallons + sales tax
   1,001 - 6,500 gallons                                                   $3.07/1,000 gallons + sales tax
   6,501 - 33,000 gallons                                                  $150/mo. after 3rd contact attempt until meter is inspected and/or
   over 33,000 gallons                                                     repaired
   Minimum bill no read meter, failure to schedule inspection/repair after (If metered separately, no minimum base rate is applied to irrigation
3rd notice                                                                    meters with zero usage)
Trunk water charge                                                            $1,266/residential unit
                                                                              $3,164/acre non-residential
Water access charge:                                                          $2,153/equivalent residential unit
WAC total charge is calculated utilitizing the same unit charge per multiplier as per the Metropolitan Council Environmental Services (MCES) Sewer
Availability Charge (SAC) Procedure Manual
WAC fees in effect at time of building permit application will apply if application has been submitted within 6-months of rate changes.
Water availability charge (for those who have city water available but choose $43 (billed in July)
not to hook up)
Water meters:                                                                 $475 + sales tax
   5/8 in. meter                                                           $489 + sales tax
   3/4 in. meter                                                           $595 + sales tax
   1 in. meter                                                             Cost + $50 + sales tax
   1-1/2 in. meter                                                         Cost + $50 +sales tax
   2 in. meter + up                                                        $78 + sales tax
   1 in. x 3/4 in. meter valves                                            $85 + sales tax
   1 in. x 1 in. meter valves                                              Cost and sales tax
   Misc. materials
Water meter replacement due to preventable damage                             Cost + labor (1 hour minimum)
Water shut off, then turned on:                                               $50 ($25 on - $25 off) + delinquency (taxable if non-res.)
Water violations (sprinkling):                                                No fee
   1st violation                                                           $50
   2nd violation                                                           $100/per violation
   Each subsequent violation
Minnesota Department of Health                                                $9.72 per year ($0.81 per month)
   Water service connection fee
 
(Ord. 704, passed 12-10-2018; Ord. 732, passed 12-9-2019; Ord. 738, passed 2-
24-2020; Ord. 740, passed 4-27-2020; Ord. 744, passed 7-27-2020; Ord. 766,
passed 12-13-2021Ord. 778, passed 5-23-2022; Ord. 787, passed 10-10-2022; Ord.
794, passed 12-12-2022; Ord. 798, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 813, passed 10-23-
2023; Ord. 819, passed 12-11-2023; Ord. 821, passed 2-26-2024; Ord. 826, passed
6-10-2024; Ord. 840, passed 12-9-2024)
CHAPTER 37: LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
Section
   
37.01   Authority
   
37.02   Designated projects
   
37.03   Local sales and use tax imposed
   
37.04   Effective date of tax
   
37.05   Exemption certificate
   
37.06   Tax clearance; issuance of licenses
   
37.07   Deposit of revenues; costs of administration; termination of tax
   
37.08   Bonding authority
   
37.09   Agreement with the Commissioner
§ 37.01 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Session Laws, 2023, Chapter 64, Article 10, Section 40, the
Minnesota Legislature authorized the City of Monticello (the "city") to impose
a local sales and use tax to provide revenues to pay the costs of collecting
and administering the tax and to pay for designated projects in the city,
including securing and paying debt service on bonds issued to finance all or
part of the projects as set forth in Session Laws, 2023, Chapter 64, Article
10, Section 40.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.02 DESIGNATED PROJECTS.
   The following project shall constitute a designated project for which the
city may impose a local sales and use tax, as approved by the voters of the
city on November 5, 2024: $15,000,000 for new construction and rehabilitation
of the Bertram Chain of Lakes Regional Athletic Park plus costs of collecting
and administering the tax and paying for the following projects in the city,
including securing and paying debt service on bonds issued to finance all or
part of the project.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.03 LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A local sales tax is imposed in the amount of 0.5% on the gross
receipts from sales at retail sourced within city limits which are taxable
under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
   (B)   A local use tax is imposed in the amount of 0.5% on the storage, use,
distribution or consumption of goods or services sourced within city limits
which are taxable under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
   (C)   All of the provisions of the state sales and use tax laws and rules
apply to the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter, including M.S. §
297A.99, Chs. 270C, 289A, 297A, and Minn. Rules, Ch. 8130, as amended from time
to time.
   (D)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected
and remitted to the State Commissioner of Revenue or their delegee on any sale
or purchase when the state sales tax must be collected and remitted to the
Commissioner under the state sales and use tax laws and rules and is in
addition to the state sales and use tax.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.04 EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the local sales and use tax imposed by
this section shall apply to sale and purchase made on or after April 1, 2025,
and shall be in addition to all other taxes now in effect. The sales and use
tax is governed by M.S. Ch. 297A, as amended from time to time, regarding sales
that occur during the transition.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.05 EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A fully completed exemption certificate taken from a purchase to the
effect that the property purchased is for resale or that the sale is otherwise
exempt from the application of the tax imposed by this chapter will
conclusively relieve the retailer from collecting and remitting the tax to the
extent the seller is also relieved of liability for the sales and use tax under
M.S. § 297A.665, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   A person who has obtained from the State Commissioner of Revenue or
their delegee an exemption certificate pursuant to the M.S. § 297A.72, as
amended from time to time, may use such exemption certificate for the purposes
of the sales tax imposed by the city.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.06 TAX CLEARANCE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of a trade
or business within the city if the State Commissioner of Revenue or their
delegee notified the licensing division of the city that the applicant owes
delinquent city taxes as provided in this chapter, or penalties or interest due
on such taxes, included the sales and use taxes imposed under this chapter and
any associated penalties or interest.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes do not include a tax liability if: (i) an
administrative or court action which contests the amount or validity of the
liability has been filed or served, (ii) the appeal period to contest the tax
liability has not expired, or (iii) the applicant has entered into a payment
agreement and is current with the payments.
   (C)   Applicant means an individual if the license is issued to or in the
name of an individual or the corporation, partnership, or other entity if the
license is issued to or in the name of a corporation, partnership, or other
entity.
   (D)   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the licensing
division of the city shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case
of renewal of a license, if the applicant requests in writing, within 30 days
of receipt of the notice of hearing, then, a contested hearing shall be held
under the same procedures as provided in M.S. Chapter 270A, as amended from
time to time, for the state sales and use tax imposed under M.S. Chapter 297A,
as amended from time to time; provided further that if a hearing must be held
on the state sales and use tax, hearings must be combined.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.07 DEPOSIT OF REVENUES; COSTS OF ADMINISTRATION; TERMINATION OF TAX.
   (A)   All of the revenues, interest, and penalties derived from the local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter collected by the State Commissioner
of Revenue or their delegee and remitted to the city shall be deposited by the
Director of Finance in the city treasury and shall be credited to the fund
established to pay the costs of collecting the local sales and use tax imposed
by this chapter and to finance the capital and administrative costs directly
related to completing the designated projects.
   (B)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall terminate at
the earlier of 20 years after the tax is first imposed, or when the City
Council determines that the amount received from the tax is sufficient to pay
for the project costs authorized under §
37.02, plus an amount sufficient to pay the costs related to issuance of any
bonds issued for the project, including interest on the bonds. Except as
otherwise provided in M.S. § 297A.99, subd. 3, para. (f), any funds remaining
after payment of the allowed costs due to the timing of the termination of the
tax under M.S. § 297A.99, subd. 12, must be placed in the general fund of the
city. The tax imposed by this chapter may expire at an earlier time if the city
so determines by ordinance.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.08 BONDING AUTHORITY.
   The city may issue bonds under M.S. Ch. 475, as amended from time to time,
to finance all or a portion of the costs of the designated projects. The
aggregate principal amount of bonds may not exceed $15,000,000 for the Bertram
Chain of Lakes Regional Athletic Park designated project, plus an amount to be
applied to the payment of the costs of issuing the bonds. The bonds may be paid
from or secured by any funds available to the city, including the sales and use
tax issued by this chapter. The issuance of bonds is not subject to M.S. §§
275.60 and 275.61, as amended from time to time. The bonds are not included in
computing any debt limitation applicable to the city, and any levy of taxes
under M.S. § 475.61, as amended from time to time, to pay principal and
interest on the bonds is not subject to any levy limitation. A separate
election to approve the bonds under M.S. § 475.58, as amended from time to
time, is not required.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 37.09 AGREEMENT WITH THE COMMISSIONER.
   The city may enter into an agreement with the State Commissioner of Revenue
or their delegee regarding each party's respective roles and responsibilities
related to the imposition, administration, collection, enforcement, and
termination of the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter. Any such
agreement shall not abrogate, alter, or otherwise conflict with the state sales
and use tax laws and rules, this chapter, or Session Laws, 2023, Chapter 64,
Article 10, Section 40.
(Ord. 839, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE V: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
      
51.   STORMWATER UTILITY
      
52.   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
53.   ILLICIT DISCHARGE, DETECTION, AND ELIMINATION
      
54.   GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND RECYCLING
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Applications, permits, and fees
   
50.02   Meters
   
50.03   Private water systems
   
50.04   Implied consent to rules, regulations, and rates
   
50.05   Meter readings
   
50.06   Billing regulations
   
50.07   Faulty meters
   
50.08   Leak in service line
   
50.09   Connection requirements
   
50.10   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.11   Water meter regulations
   
50.12   Unlawful to tamper with meter
   
50.13   Liability for repairs
   
50.14   Installation of connections
   
50.15   City not liable
   
50.16   Stormwater not permitted in sanitary sewer system
   
50.17   Excavation work and testing of meters
   
50.18   Emergency regulations
   
50.19   Right to enter land
   
50.20   Private water not permitted in system
   
50.21   Provision for shut off of service
   
50.22   Cross connection with municipal water utility system; regulations
User Charges
   
50.35   Purpose
   
50.36   Computation of user charges
   
50.37   Billing and enforcement procedures
   
50.38   Inspection and control
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater utility, see
Chapter 51
   Wastewater disposal system, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLICATIONS, PERMITS, AND FEES.
   (A)   No person shall make any type of connection to the water system,
sanitary sewer system, or storm sewer system except upon making an application
therefor on a form provided by the city and receiving a permit issued by the
city for such purposes. The application shall include the legal description of
the property to be served, the uses for which the connection is requested, and
the size of the service line to be used.
   (B)   No connection shall be made with respect to any sanitary sewer, water
system, or storm sewer system serving the property of any person or occupants
of the land, parcel, or premises affected that have not paid or provided for
the payment of the full and proportionate share of the utilities. At the time
of taking the application, there shall be paid to the city the following fees
for the following purposes.
      (1)   For service to property to which service lines have not been
previously run from the street laterals to the property line, the owner,
occupant, or user shall pay an amount not less than the cost of making the
necessary connection taps, and installation of pipe and appurtenances to
provide service to the property and the necessary street repairs.
      (2)   For service to property to which service lines have been run to the
property line but which have not been paid for, the owner, occupant, or user
shall pay in cash or agree to pay charges in the form of special assessments to
be levied against the property to be spread over a number of years coincident
with maturity requirements of any special improvement bonds sold for the
purpose of financing the construction of sanitary sewer, municipal water, or
storm sewer system serving the property. Cash payment or assessment charge
shall be in the principal amount of not less than the payments made by or
charges placed against comparable properties for like services for the sanitary
sewer, water, or storm sewer system in an amount as may be established by the
City Council. In the instance of services run to the property lines as provided
under division (B)(1) above, the payment of any amount required under this
division (B)(2) shall be reduced by the amount paid to the city under division
(B)(1) above.
      (3)   (a)   The water connection rate schedule, listed in the fee
schedule ordinance, applies to a premises that does not have city water. It
also applies where a property had city water and then changes the size of the
water connection.
         (b)   Costs include cost of a water meter and those costs (if service
line necessary) in division (B)(1) above.
         (c)   The hookup charge for water is based upon the following factors:
            1.   Some means of recovering a portion of water main costs not
assessed;
            2.   Portion of oversizing of water main not assessed should be
recovered; and
            3.   A hookup charge should be based on service line flow
capabilities.
      (4)   (a)   Where application is made for connection of any single-family
residence to the sanitary sewer system, a connection fee adopted by the City
Council for treatment plant plus trunk sanitary sewer shall be paid to the
city.
         (b)   For various commercial, public, and institutional facilities,
refer to the most recent version of the Metropolitan Council Environmental
Services (MCES) SAC criteria. Use the plumbing code for those items not
included in the MCES criteria. The city uses the MCES criteria as the basis for
calculating our SAC rates but the city reserves the right to vary from the MCES
criteria to accommodate those uses which are deemed to be unique.
         (c)   Before proceeding with the construction, enlargement,
alteration, or repair of any water or sewer lines connecting the water system,
sanitary sewer system, or storm sewer system and any house or building, the
owner or his or her agent shall first obtain a permit for such purpose from the
city. The applicant shall pay to the city as noted in the fee schedule
ordinance.
         (d)   The plumbing inspector shall examine all applications before
construction is begun; and after the construction, enlargement, alteration, or
repair is complete, the plumbing inspector shall be notified. It shall be
unlawful to cover any connecting line until an inspection has been made and the
connection and the work incident thereto has been approved by the city as a
proper and suitable connection.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 32, passed 7-11-1977; Ord. 126, passed 9-13-1983;
Ord. 288, passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 538, passed 12-12-2011)
§ 50.02 METERS.
   (A)   Before any water conveyed through the city water system shall be used
or utilized on the land or premises of any person, there shall first be
installed a water meter that will accurately measure the water consumed on the
premises.
   (B)   All meters for residential housing and the other connections as may
permit the use of the same kind of water meter shall be furnished by the city
as set forth above at such time as the water connection change has been paid.
In the event special meters are required for commercial or industrial
connections, then the applicant shall furnish a meter of the type approved by
the city for the connection, and an allowance shall be made toward the cost of
the meter in an amount equal to the cost of residential meters.
   (C)   No connection of water or sewer service shall be made to any house or
building unless the plumbing therein has been installed pursuant to the latest
Minneapolis Plumbing Code, provided that this shall apply only to construction
which has not been completed prior to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 50.03 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to install private water system
or sewer system in the city except in such cases as the public water and sewer
system are not accessible to the premises where the private systems are
requested. To determine whether or not the public water and/or sewer systems
are available for connection, each person desiring to install a private water
or sewer system must first make application for connection to a public system.
Upon resolution of the City Council determining that it is not feasible to
connect the applicant’s premises to the public water or sewer system, then the
applicant shall be granted a permit to install a private water and/or sewer
system.
   (B)   Where a private sewer system has been installed before the public
sewer system was accessible to the premises served by the private system,
connection of the premises to the public system must be made within 30 days
after the private system fails to function properly or within three years after
public system was accessible, whichever is sooner. It shall be unlawful to
repair or pump a private system after such time as the public sewer system is
accessible to the premises without written permission of the Water and Sewer
Department for the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 4, passed 11-24-1975) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 IMPLIED CONSENT TO RULES, REGULATIONS, AND RATES.
   Every person applying for water or sewer service, every owner of property
for which any application is made, every person accepting water or sewer
services, and every owner of property where service is accepted subsequent to
the passage of this chapter shall be deemed upon making the application or
accepting the service to consent to all rules, regulations, and rates as
established by this chapter and as may hereafter be set forth and adopted by
the City Council by resolution or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 50.05 METER READINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may provide a system of water meter reading by any
method deemed suitable to the purpose. Water bills shall be payable monthly by
the date due specified on the bill. Rates for water used for each month are
calculated by using the meter supplying each service.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service to any customer of
the water and sanitary sewer system without notice when necessary for repairs,
additional connection or reconnection, or for nonpayment of charges of bills,
or for disregard of any rules or regulations in connection with the use or
operation of the system. Whenever any service has been discontinued for
nonpayment of charges or bills or for disregard of any other purpose, it shall
not be resumed except upon payment of the charges or bills accrued together
with interest thereon as allowed by state statutes, or compliance with the
rules and regulations previously violated and payment to the city of a
restoration fee established in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   All delinquent accounts that are 60 days or more past due shall be
submitted to the City Clerk who shall prepare an assessment roll each year
providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the properties
involved. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council for
adoption before October 30 of each year. Upon adoption, the Clerk shall certify
the assessment roll to the County Auditor for collection along with taxes.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 458, passed 10-23-2006; Ord. 689, passed 12-11-
2017)
§ 50.06 BILLING REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to prescribe by ordinance the
rates to be charged for water and sewer service to the customer from time to
time and may prescribe the date of billing, a discount for payment, and/or
penalty for failure to pay within the period and such further rules and
regulations relative to the use and operation of the system as it may deem
necessary from time to time through the fee schedule ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 458, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 50.07 FAULTY METERS.
   If a meter fails to register or accurately measure the water, the charge for
water consumed shall be paid for at the established rate based upon past
average billings as determined by the city. Whenever a consumer believes that a
meter is inaccurate the customer can request a new meter be installed. Such
request shall be accompanied by a payment equal to the cost of a new meter as
listed in the fee schedule ordinance. If any such meter is found to be
inaccurate the customer shall be refunded the new meter charge. If the meter
shall be found to be accurate in its recordings or calculations the new meter
cost shall not be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 50.08 LEAK IN SERVICE LINE.
   Any owner, occupant, or user of a premises who shall discover a leak in a
service line to the premises shall notify the city within 24 hours. Any water
wasted due to a failure of a person to comply with this regulation shall be
estimated by the city and be charged for against the owner at the premises at
the established rate.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8)
§ 50.09 CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Each new building or part thereof constructed in the city which is required
by code to have sewer and water shall have its own individual sewer and water
connections to the city mains. Any shared existing services for adjacent units
of separate ownership which fail and require replacement or substantial repairs
shall at that time be separated. Connections shall be made in accordance with
standards and specifications approved by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) (Ord. 139, passed 7-23-1984)
§ 50.10 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.09, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with city, state, and federal regulations.
§ 50.11 WATER METER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All applications for the installation, maintenance, and repair of
water meters shall be made to the city.
   (B)   No other person other than the city or its designee shall maintain or
repair any water meter within the city limits. Every water meter connected to
the water system shall be sealed by or under the direction of the city, and no
other person shall break or remove the seal, provided, however, that a plumber
licensed to do business in the state may break the seal to remove the meter for
necessary repairs. In all cases where a seal is broken or a meter is removed by
a licensed plumber, the plumber shall notify the city of the fact within 24
hours after the seal is broken or the meter is removed. Whenever any seal
attached to a water meter by or under the direction of the city is found
broken, the broken condition of the seal shall be prima facie evidence that the
seal was broken contrary to the terms and provisions in violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   All water meters connected to the water system shall be accessible to
the city at any reasonable hour of any business day, and the refusal of
admission of any owner or occupant of any premises wherein a water meter is
installed after the owner or occupant has been notified that admission is
desired for the purpose of inspecting a water meter installed in the premises
shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The meters shall be repaired from time to time as is necessary to
ensure accurate measuring of the flow of water, except that whenever a meter
has been damaged due to negligence on the part of persons other than the
employees of the city, the owner, occupant, or user of the premises or other
persons desiring the use of the water shall reimburse the city for the expense
of repairing any such meter. Upon failure to reimburse the city within a
reasonable time and upon demand therefor, the water services and supply to the
premises may be shut off or discontinued as determined to be in the best
interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, alter, bypass, or in any
manner whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of water meter
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 LIABILITY FOR REPAIRS.
   After the initial connection has been made to the curb stop or the sewer
lead, the applicant, owner, or the occupant or user of the premises shall be
liable for all repairs required to any water, sanitary, or storm sewer lines
necessary for connection of the premises to the street main, including any
necessary street repairs.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-12) (Ord. 101, passed 6-8-1981)
§ 50.14 INSTALLATION OF CONNECTIONS.
   All connections to the water system and sanitary sewer system shall be
performed by a plumber licensed to do plumbing in the city, except that nothing
in this chapter shall be construed as to prohibit an individual owner from
obtaining a permit and installing the connection by his or her own labor,
provided, however, that the construction is conducted under the regulations of
this chapter and requirements of the engineer and plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-13)
§ 50.15 CITY NOT LIABLE.
   The city shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or failure
in the supply of water to the customer caused by shutting off the water for
repairs or connections or for any other cause whatever.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-14)
§ 50.16 STORMWATER NOT PERMITTED IN SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or user of any premises
to direct into or allow any stormwater, surface water, ground water, or water
from air conditioning systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the
city. This includes water from any roof, surface or ground sump pump,
foundation drain, or swimming pool. Dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require a sump pump system to discharge excess water shall
have a permanently-installed discharge line which shall not at any time
discharge water into the sanitary sewer system except as provided herein.
   (B)   A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year-around
discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building, or
structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer system or discharges to the
street. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line without valving or quick
connections for altering the path of discharge and include a check valve if
connected to the city storm sewer line.
      (1)   Inspection. Every person owning improved real estate that
discharges into the city sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the
city or their designated representative to inspect the buildings to confirm
that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary
sewer system. Properties found to be in compliance will receive a certificate
of compliance at the time of inspection.
      (2)   Non-compliance. Within 30 days of initial inspection, any person,
firm, or corporation having a roof, surface or ground sump pump, foundation
drain, or swimming pool and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall
disconnect and/or remove same. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary
sewer shall be closed or repaired in an effective and workmanlike manner in
accordance with §
50.13. Any person refusing to allow his or her property to be inspected shall
immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any
property found to violate this section shall make the necessary changes to
comply with this section within 30 days of the initial inspection.
      (3)   Future inspections. At any future time, the city may conduct random
inspections if the city has reason to suspect that an illegal connection exists
on a property to ensure compliance with this section.
      (4)   New construction. A sump pump and rigid pipe discharge connection
to the outside shall be required on all new construction within the city where
a ground water drainage system is part of the construction plans.
      (5)   Temporary winter variance (November 1 through March 1). The City
Council shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding requests for
temporary variances from the applicability of the provisions of this section
where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances
unique to the individual property or cause a safety problem. This does not
apply to monetary hardship. Application for a temporary waiver should be
addressed in writing to the City of Monticello, Director of Public Works. The
applications shall identify the property for which the variance is being
applied for, the name of the property owner/applicant, and describe in detail
what characteristics of the subject property create undue hardship or concern.
Within 30 days after application, the city shall make its order deciding on the
matter and serve a copy of the order upon the applicant by mail. Upon receipt
of an application for variance, the city will allow the property owner to
temporarily discharge directly into the sanitary sewer system. Employees of the
city will divert the discharge and seal the connection of the discharge to the
sanitary sewer using a meter seal. The cost for the connection to the sanitary
sewer and subsequent removal will be noted in the fee schedule ordinance.
Additionally, the applicant will be responsible for the cost to transport and
treat the added flow to the sanitary sewer at the established city rate. The
total flow for the period of the variance will be monitored by the city.
      (6)   Single-family unit surcharge. A surcharge of $75 per month is
hereby imposed and added to every sewer billing to property owners who are not
in compliance with this section within 30 days of initial inspection. This
surcharge is in addition to any other penalties that may be incurred under this
subchapter. Should a single-family unit property owner found to be in
compliance with this section and during a subsequent inspection found to have
reconnected an illegal source to the sanitary sewer, the surcharge as listed in
the fee schedule ordinance will be applied for all months between the previous
two inspections.
      (7)   Non single-family unit surcharge. A surcharge as listed in the fee
schedule ordinance is hereby imposed and added to every sewer billing to
property owners who are not in compliance with this section within 30 days of
initial inspection. This surcharge is in addition to any other penalties that
may be incurred under this subchapter. Should a non single-family unit property
owner found to be in compliance with this section and during a subsequent
inspection found to have reconnected an illegal source to the sanitary sewer,
the surcharge as listed in the fee schedule ordinance will be applied for all
months between the previous two inspections.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-15) (Ord. 271, passed 6-12-1995) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 EXCAVATION WORK AND TESTING OF METERS.
   All installation work or repair of connections to the water and sewer
systems, including grades, bends, and backfilling, shall be performed under the
direction and supervision of the plumbing inspector. No work shall be covered
or backfilled until directed by the inspector. All work and excavations shall
be protected by barricades and warning markers and lights reasonable and
suitable to the purpose. The city shall be held harmless of any claim or loss
as might otherwise arise for damage, loss, or injury caused by or arising by
reason of the work being performed; and the applicant causing the work to be
done shall give undertaking to the city with respect thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-16)
§ 50.18 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The City Council may impose emergency regulations pertaining to the
conservation of water by resolution of the Council and by giving notice by
publication or by posting in City Hall and at the public places as the Council
may direct.
   (A)   Lawn and garden watering regulations.
      (1)   Purpose. The city has limited water storage and pumping capacity.
Due to the fast growth in residential developments, this section will promote a
higher awareness of the primary use of water in the summer lawn and garden
irrigation, and regulate the watering of lawns, gardens, grass seed, and sod.
      (2)   Odd/even schedule. A home or business address ending in an odd
number (1, 3, 5, 7, 9) may water its lawn on odd numbered calendar days each
month and an address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6, 8) may water its
lawn on even-numbered calendar days. The only deviations to the odd/even
watering system are apartment complexes and homeowner associations that have
been assigned odd or even watering days because of the numerous addresses on
one sprinkling system. For these complexes and associations, the address of the
bill for sprinkling water shall be used to determine odd or even. The odd/even
schedule is in effect from June 1 through September 30 of each year until
further notice. This may be deleted or modified when the city completes
construction of additional wells and water towers to improve pumping and
storage capabilities.
      (3)   Permit required. A 30-day permit may be obtained at City Hall to
water newly seeded or sodded lawns and newly planted trees.
      (4)   Rain sensors. Rain sensors are required on all commercial,
institutional, or governmental sprinkler systems. All newly installed
sprinkling systems from the date of publication of this subchapter, including
residential, will be required to have rain sensors.
      (5)   Private wells. Restrictions of this section do not apply to
property serviced by private wells, provided the sprinkling water is pumped
from a private well. Residents, commercial, institutional, or governmental
entities with private wells are required to notify City Hall that they have a
well used for watering purposes.
   (B)   Additional restrictions. In the case of a severe shortage of water,
the City Administrator and/or Public Works Director are authorized to impose
additional restrictions to provide for the safe operation of the municipal
water supply. The notice shall be posted at all city offices on the city’s
website, and in the official newspaper. The Mayor and City Council shall be
notified of the restrictions as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-17) (Ord. 379, passed 6-10-2002) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 RIGHT TO ENTER LAND.
   The city, by any authorized employee or agent, shall have the right to enter
and be admitted to any lands and property in the city for the purpose of
inspection of materials, plumbing work, and fixtures of all kinds used by or in
connection with the water and sewer systems, in accordance with §
10.20.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-18)
§ 50.20 PRIVATE WATER NOT PERMITTED IN SYSTEM.
   Whenever any premises are connected to the water system, there shall be
maintained a complete physical separation between the water supply system and
the private water supply system so that it is impossible to intentionally or
unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system to be introduced
in the supply line from the city system.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-19)
§ 50.21 PROVISION FOR SHUT OFF OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Shut off for nonpayment. The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent
accounts promptly. In any case where satisfactory arrangements for payment have
not been made, the Public Works Department may, after the procedural
requirements of division (B) below have been complied with, discontinue service
to the delinquent customer by shutting off the water at the stop box. When
water service to any premises has been discontinued, service shall not be
restored except upon the payment of all delinquent amounts due plus a fee for
disconnection and reconnection based on a fee schedule adopted by the City
Council.
   (B)   Procedure. Water shall not be shut off under division (A) above until
notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given the occupant of
the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by certified mail and shall
state that if payment is not made before a date stated in the notice but not
less than 30 days after the date on which the notice is given, the water supply
to the premises will be shut off. The notice shall not be sent until an account
is 30 days past due. The notice shall contain amount due and shut off date if
payment is not made.
   (C)   Shut off for abandonment or vacancy.
      (1)   The Chief Building Official or the Public Works Director, to
protect the public health and safety and in order to protect the public water
supply and/or private property, may order the city water service immediately
disconnected to any property without prior notice to the owner upon determining
that any of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   The property is vacant or abandoned;
         (b)   The property is unsecured;
         (c)   The property is determined to be uninhabitable or unsuitable for
occupancy;
         (d)   Other utilities have been shut off or the city has been provided
notice of disconnection of gas or electric service; or
         (e)   Running water to the property creates an unsanitary or unsafe
condition.
      (2)   (a)   Water service shall not be re-connected to the property until
it has passed an inspection by the city and the owner pays any re-connection
fee as noted in the fee schedule ordinance.
         (b)   Upon disconnection, the city will post or leave notice at the
property indicating the date of disconnection and directions regarding how the
service may be reconnected.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-20) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 458, passed 10-23-
2006)
§ 50.22 CROSS CONNECTION WITH MUNICIPAL WATER UTILITY SYSTEM; REGULATIONS.
   All property owners and customers of the municipal water service shall
comply with the following cross connection control requirements:
   (A)   Any private water line, system, apparatus or equipment that is
connected to or has a cross-connection with the city's municipal water system
shall have a backflow prevention device installed, tested, and properly
maintained in accordance with the Minnesota State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Prior to the installation of or the repair to any private water line,
system, apparatus or equipment that is connected to or has a cross-connection
with the city's municipal water system, the property owner, or the customer if
different than the owner, shall notify and obtain approval for the installation
or repair and the backflow prevention devices proposed to be installed.
   (C)   The backflow prevention device is to be owned, tested, and maintained
in working condition by the customer/owner of the premises being served and
shall be done so in accordance with the Minnesota State Plumbing Code.
   (D)   The backflow prevention device shall be tested at the intervals set
forth by the Minnesota State Building Code for the type of device installed.
The required test shall be performed by an ASSE/state certified backflow
tester. All internal maintenance to the device shall be performed by an ASSE/
state certified backflow prevention re builder. The owner/customer shall
provide a certified report of the test results to the city. An ASSE certified
Cross-Connection Control Surveyor is considered qualified by the City of
Monticello to investigate all potable water outlets for actual or potential
connections between a potable water supply and sources of contamination or
pollution.
   (E)   (1)   All properties connected to the municipal water utility system
shall be subject to annual inspections by a city-designated inspector for the
purpose of determining whether cross connection(s) exist and if so, whether the
proper device is present on the property. The property owner or occupant shall
permit the city-designated inspector on the property and within any structure
thereon to complete the inspection. The compliance inspection shall occur
within 30 days of written notice from the city that a compliance inspection is
required on the property. The compliance inspection shall occur at a time and
in the manner as reasonably determined by the city inspector.
      (2)   In lieu of a compliance inspection by the city-designated
inspector, the property owner or occupant may have the property inspected, at
the sole expense of the owner or occupant, by an ASSE certified Cross-
Connection Control Surveyor who shall inspect the property and file a
certificate of compliance, on a form provided by the city, within 30 days of
the city's notice of the required inspection. The private ASSE certified Cross-
Connection Control Surveyor who conducts the compliance inspection shall
certify on the certificate of compliance whether all backflow prevention
devices required on the property are installed and in proper working condition
in in compliance with the provisions of this section and the Minnesota State
Plumbing Code.
      (3)   If the property owner or occupant fails to permit or have completed
a compliance inspection, the city may apply to the district court for an
appropriate administrative search warrant authorizing the city to enter the
property to conduct the inspection.
      (4)   In the event that backflow prevention device(s) is required on the
property and said device(s) are not present or are not in compliance with this
section, the installation or repair of the proper backflow prevention device
( s) shall be completed and a second compliance inspection shall be completed
within 60 days of the notice of noncompliance to determine if the necessary
corrections have been made and compliance with this section has been met. The
second compliance inspection shall be subject to the requirements set forth
above. Thereafter, the property shall be subject to re-inspections on an annual
basis to confirm continued compliance. Properties that are in compliance shall
also be subject to re-inspections to confirm continued compliance.
   (F)   Surcharges. 
      (1)   A surcharge in an amount duly adopted by City Council resolution
and set forth in the city's fee schedule shall be assessed against the property
on which backflow prevention devices (or lack thereof) in violation of this
section. The surcharge will be charged on the property's municipal utility
billing statement. A surcharge will be assessed and charged as follows:
         (a)   An inspection as required herein has not been allowed by the
property owner or occupant or a certificate of compliance has not been filed
with the city within 30 days after the city's notice of inspection;
         (b)   The necessary corrections have not been made within the time
specified; and
         (c)   The property owner or occupant has failed to install, replace or
repair any and all backflow prevention device(s) at the city's or a court's
direction.
      (2)   A surcharge will be assessed for every billing period during which
the property is not in compliance, whether the non-compliance has existed for
the entire billing period or a portion thereof.
   (G)   The city may impose a fee for administering a backflow preventer
testing program which shall be as established by City Council resolution.
   (H)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be cause
to disconnect municipal water service to the property in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 743, passed 7-27-2020)
USER CHARGES
§ 50.35 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of providing monies necessary for the maintenance and
operation of the disposal system of the city, including payment of principal
and interest due or accruing on bonds and other obligations issued or incurred
to finance the maintenance and operation, there is hereby charged a “user
charge” to be collected by the city with respect to each lot, parcel of land,
building, or premises, having any connection direct or indirect with the
disposal system of the city or otherwise discharging sewage, industrial waste,
water, or other waste directly into the city disposal system. The user charge
is to be paid periodically commencing with connection and continuing (unless
for good cause waived or excused) for as long as the premises remain connected.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 50.36 COMPUTATION OF USER CHARGES.
   The city shall have the discretion to establish user classification. Each
user class shall be billed by rates contained in the fee schedule ordinance.
§ 50.37 BILLING AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Accounts. All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who
personally, or by his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The
owner shall be liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property,
whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges
shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Charges due. The Chief Financial Officer shall compute the amount due
the city for service charges and render a statement thereof monthly to the
owner of any premises served or to both. All amounts due hereunder shall be
payable to the office of the Finance Department.
   (C)   Payment required. Payment of user charges must be made when a
connection is established, temporary or permanent, vacancy notwithstanding
   (D)   Enforcement of charges. Each charge levied by and pursuant to this
section is hereby made a lien upon the corresponding lot, land, or premises
served by a connection to the sewer system of the city. All the charges which
are more than 60 days past due, and having been properly billed to the occupant
of the premises served, shall be certified by the City Clerk to the County
Auditor by November 30 of each year. The City Clerk shall specify the amount
thereof, the description of the premises served, the name of the owner thereof
which shall be certified by the Auditor on the tax rolls against the premises
in the same manner as other taxes.
   (E)   Right of action. Any charges levied by and pursuant to §
50.36, and which have not been properly billed to the owner of any premises
served, and not paid, may be recovered in a civil action by the city in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Application of funds. The funds received from the collection of
charges authorized by this section shall be deposited as collected in a fund
known as the Water Fund and Sewer Fund and shall be disbursed:
      (1)   To meet the costs of operation and maintaining the water and sewage
disposal pumping stations, treatment plant, and collection system; and
      (2)   To meet the costs of repair and replacement of the water and sewage
disposal facilities.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 214, passed 10-28-1991; Ord. 785, passed 9-26-2022)
§ 50.38 INSPECTION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   Industrial waste measurement and sampling. Any person discharging
industrial waste into the disposal system shall provide and maintain a suitable
point or points of access together with the necessary meters and other
appurtenances at an appropriate location prior to discharge of the waste into
the disposal system to permit observation, measurement, and sampling of the
waste by the city. Plans for the sampling points and measuring equipment shall
be submitted to and approved by the city prior to construction and installation
of same. Sampling and measuring facilities shall be such as to provide safe
access for making inspection and verification of their proper operating
condition. The metered water supply to a source of industrial waste may be used
in lieu of a measured industrial waste volume where it can be established that
the metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same or
where a measurable adjustment to the metered supply can be made to determine
the waste volume.
   (B)   Industrial waste analyses. Determination of the character and
concentration of an industrial waste discharged into the disposal system shall
be made by the person discharging it or his or her designated agent. Reports
showing quantities and pertinent analytical data of the industrial waste
discharges shall be filed with the city.
   (C)   Measurement and test procedures. All measurements, tests, and analyses
of the characteristics of waste to which reference is made in these rules and
regulations shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation. Sampling shall be
carried out by methods acceptable to and approved by the city. Alternate
methods for certain analyses may be used subject to prior written approval by
the city.
   (D)   Confidentiality of critical information.
      (1)   Any records or other information obtained by the city or furnished
by an industrial waste discharger which are certified by the discharger to
relate to:
         (a)   Production or sales figures;
         (b)   Processes or production unique to the discharge; or
         (c)   Information which would tend to affect adversely the competitive
position of the discharger shall be only for the confidential use of the city
in discharging its statutory obligations unless otherwise authorized by the
discharger.
      (2)   However, all the information may be used by the city in compiling
or publishing analyses or summaries relating to the general condition of the
public waters so long as the analyses or summaries do not identify any
discharger who has so not certified.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.21 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-21)
   (C)   Violators of §
50.17 will be warned the first time and a water use surcharge as listed in the
fee schedule ordinance will be billed for a second offense; the surcharge for
third and subsequent violations within a 12-month period is listed in the fee
schedule ordinance. The Public Works Department may shut the water off for
repeat offenses. The standard turn-off and turn-on rates shall apply in
addition to the surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-17)
(Ord. 362, passed 7-23-2001)
CHAPTER 51: STORMWATER UTILITY
Section
   
51.01   Stormwater utility establishment
   
51.02   Purpose
   
51.03   Definition
   
51.04   Stormwater Utility Fund
   
51.05   Establishment of stormwater utility fee
   
51.06   Residential
   
51.07   Non-residential
   
51.08   Stormwater utility fee exemptions
   
51.09   Stormwater utility adjustments
   
51.10   Appeal of stormwater utility fee
   
51.11   Payment of fees
   
51.12   Establishment of tax lien
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a public utility to be known as the stormwater
utility for the city. The stormwater utility shall be operated as a public
utility pursuant to the authority of M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from
time to time. Stormwater utility revenues shall be subject to the provisions of
this section and M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a funding mechanism for the
following services:
   (A)   The administration, planning, analysis, installation, operation,
maintenance, and replacement of public drainage systems;
   (B)   The administration, planning, implementation, construction, and
maintenance of stormwater best management practices (BMPs) to reduce the
introduction of sediment and other pollutants into local water resources;
   (C)   Other education, engineering, inspection, monitoring, testing, and
enforcement activities as necessary to maintain compliance with local, state,
and federal stormwater requirements; and
   (D)   Activities necessary to maintain compliance with the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES), municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) permit requirements established by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, including preparation, implementation, and management of a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPERVIOUS. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards the
entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking
lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads. Paths, parking,
and storage areas that consist of gravel and exposed dirt will be considered an
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.04 STORMWATER UTILITY FUND.
   There is hereby created a Stormwater Utility Fund into which all fees, when
collected, shall be placed. Such monies shall be first used to pay normal,
reasonable, and current costs of operating and maintaining the city stormwater
system and facilities.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   There shall be collected from every property in the city a stormwater
utility fee. Stormwater utility fees shall be established by ordinance. Fees
shall be based upon the operations of the stormwater utility, including an
accounting of all monies received and disbursed, together with a working budget
estimate of the needs of the utility.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.06 RESIDENTIAL.
   The stormwater utility fee for properties classified as residential shall be
calculated based on one drainage unit per residential unit. Residential
properties include single-family, multi-family, townhome, mobile home park, and
all other types of clustered residential housing, including the residential
portion of mixed-use developments and excluding lodging.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.07 NON-RESIDENTIAL.
   The stormwater utility fee for properties classified as non-residential
shall be calculated based on seven drainage units per impervious acre. Every
non-residential property shall have a minimum of at least seven drainage units.
Impervious acreage will be rounded to the nearest full acre (e.g., one and one-
half impervious acres are rounded to two acres).
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.08 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from stormwater utility fees:
   (A)   Public rights-of-way and parks;
   (B)   Vacant lands with no impervious surface; and
   (C)   Railroad rights-of-way.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.09 STORMWATER UTILITY ADJUSTMENTS.
   The Public Works Director, or designee, may adjust the impervious surface
acreage for non-residential parcels of land based on a demonstration that the
impervious coverage of such parcel is substantially different than the amount
previously calculated. Supporting information, including maps and measurements
to justify an adjustment, shall be supplied by the property owner.
Administrative adjustments for impervious surface calculation differences shall
be retroactive to the month said deviation is brought to the attention of the
city.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.10 APPEAL OF STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying a stormwater utility
fee believes that a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such person may
request a recalculation. The City Council shall review and approve
recalculations following any appeal and its decision shall be final.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.11 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   Statements for stormwater utility fees shall be billed on the same basis
(e.g., monthly, quarterly, and the like) as other utility charges. All fees
shall be subject to established procedures for determining and collecting
customer charges. Mobile home parks shall be billed in aggregate to the owner
of the mobile home park. For other clustered residential units such as
townhomes, the city has the discretion to bill either a homeowner association
in aggregate or each homeowner. Both residential and non- residential fees
shall be applied to mixed-use developments, with charges billed individually or
in aggregate, to either tenant or property owner, at the discretion of the
city. Monthly charges apply to temporarily vacated property. The charge is for
service rendered in the month of the bill.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.12 ESTABLISHMENT OF TAX LIEN.
   Any past due stormwater utility fees will be certified to the County Auditor
for collection with real estate taxes against the property served by the
utility established in this chapter for collection as other taxes are collected
in the following year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075 subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, and the city code of ordinances. In addition, the city may
have the right to bring a civil action or take other legal remedies to collect
unpaid fees.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   All stormwater fees not paid by the due date shall incur a penalty at the
same rate set forth for other delinquent utility fees in the fee schedule
ordinance.
(Ord. 718, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
Regulation of Discharges
   
52.015   General discharge prohibitions
   
52.016   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.017   State and local requirements
   
52.018   Pretreatment facilities
   
52.019   Dilution
   
52.020   Accidental and slug discharges
   
52.021   Sludges generated
Charges and Fees
   
52.035   Purpose
   
52.036   Monitoring
   
52.037   Inspection
   
52.038   Permit
Administration
   
52.050   General user reports
   
52.051   Wastewater discharge permits
   
52.052   Monitoring facilities
   
52.053   Inspection, sampling, and records
   
52.054   Compliance reporting requirements
   
52.055   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
52.070   Slug or accidental discharge
   
52.071   Revocation of permit
   
52.072   Notification of violation
   
52.073   Show cause hearing
   
52.074   Legal action
   
52.075   Appeal to the City Council
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into the
city’s wastewater disposal system.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will interfere with the operation of the system or the
use or disposal of the sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the city’s
wastewater disposal system through the issuance of permits to certain users and
through enforcement of the general requirements for the other users, authorizes
monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting, and provides
for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of cost resulting from
the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city wastewater
disposal system. This chapter is a supplement to Chapters
50,
51, and
53 of this code of ordinances. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public
Works Director of the city wastewater disposal system shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not
otherwise defined herein shall be as given in M.S. Ch. 115 and M.S. Ch. 116, as
they may be amended from time to time.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   CITY. The City of Monticello or the City Council of Monticello.
   COMMERCIAL USER. A person engaged in a trade or business and who discharges
only domestic sanitary waste in amounts less than 25,000 gallons per day or
having less than 43 pounds BOD5 or 50 pound suspended solids per day. A
commercial user shall be exempt from permit filing and associated fees. Any
person discharging more than state waste quantities shall be considered an
industrial user for the purposes of this chapter.
   DIRECTOR; SUPERINTENDENT. The Director of the Public Works Department of the
city. The SUPERINTENDENT of the wastewater disposal system shall have the same
authority in the absence of the DIRECTOR.
   IMMINENT OR SUBSTANTIAL ENDANGERMENT. A condition occurring that is an
immediate danger caused by a discharge to the sewer system that is one or more
of the following:
      (1)   A toxic discharge that would cause disruption of treatment process
or prohibit or substantially limit sludge application or disposal;
      (2)   A flammable discharge that is of sufficient quantity to, alone or
in combination with other gases or substances, create an explosive condition;
      (3)   A discharge that, either alone or in combination with other
normally present substances, would cause toxic vapors or fumes to be created;
      (4)   A discharge of solid or viscous materials that would cause an
immediate plugging problem in sewer or pumping mechanisms;
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes as defined by the NRC, AEC, and/or other
state and federal agencies; and/or
      (6)   Any liquid slug load greater than 25,000 gallons discharged in one
hour or less.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who discharges to the city’s wastewater disposal
system liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial,
manufacturing, or from the development of any natural resource.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES or state disposal system
permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
city in accordance with local, state, and federal rules or regulations.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Any permit
or requirements issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA)
pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) for the purpose of regulating the discharge of sewage, industrial
wastes, or other wastes under the authority of § 402 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1342.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added to the water is heat.
   PERMIT. The wastewater discharge permit issued by the city to industrial
users.
   PERSON. Any corporation, individual, partnership, association, public
agency, and any other organization or group of individuals, public or private.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating
pollutants, or altering the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a
less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing
the pollutants into the city’s wastewater disposal system. The reduction,
elimination, or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological
processes, process changes, or other means, except by dilution as prohibited by
§
52.019.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the city’s wastewater
disposal system which:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
disposal system; or
      (3)   Has BOD or suspended solids loading equivalent to domestic strength
sewage at the flow defined in divisions (1) or (2) above;
      (4)   Has in its wastes at the point of discharge toxic pollutants (as
defined pursuant to § 307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or state statutes
and rules) in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt any wastewater treatment process, constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, or create a toxic effect in the wastewater
system; or
      (5)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal system, the quality
of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms, conditions,
and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. § 115.07, as it
may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as defined by M.S. §
115.01, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of
or is suspended in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is removable
by a standard glass fiber filter.
   USER. Any person who discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any ground water, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is discharged into or permitted to
enter the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures,
equipment, or works owned or used by the city for the purpose of the
transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of industrial and
domestic wastewater or necessary to recycle or reuse water, including
intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection system, pumping, power,
and other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements,
remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a
reliable recycled water supply such as standby treatment units and clear well
facilities; and any works, including land, that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
the treatment. The SYSTEM shall be designed, operated, and maintained in
accordance with acceptable engineering standards.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2) (Ord. 132, passed 1-23-1984)
REGULATION OF DISCHARGES
§ 52.015 GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, into the wastewater disposal system any substance which exceeds or
any other way violates the prescribed design limitations of the system.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to compliance with these limitations, no user shall
discharge to any public sewer any discharge which causes interference as
defined with the wastewater disposal system.
      (2)   Pollutants in the effluent from an industrial user shall not be
considered to cause interference where the industrial user is in compliance
with specific limitations or standards developed by federal, state, or local
governments.
      (3)   Where the industrial user is in compliance with the specific
limitations or standards and pollutants in the effluent from the industrial
user’s facility nevertheless are determined to have caused or significantly
contributed to a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES or state
disposal system permit and are likely to cause such a violation in the future,
the city must take appropriate action to develop and enforce specific effluent
limits for that industrial user to ensure renewed and continued compliance with
the city’s NPDES or state disposal system permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-1)
§ 52.016 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   National categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instance where they are more
stringent than the limitations in this chapter unless the Director has applied
for and obtained from the MPCA approval to modify the specific limits in the
national categorical pretreatment standards will be considered for submittal by
the Director when the city’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of the pollutants. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall be defined as in 40 C.F.R.
part 403 of the General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources
of Pollution.
   (B)   Conditional revisions of national categorical pretreatment standards
may be made by the city in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403 if requested by
the industry, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-2) (Ord. 132, passed 1-23-1984)
§ 52.017 STATE AND LOCAL REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall be met by all users
which are subject to the standards in any instance in which they are more
stringent then federal requirements and limitations or those in this chapter or
any other applicable ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-3)
§ 52.018 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical
pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall
be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be included as part of
the permit application. The review of the plans and operating procedures will
in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to produce an effluent acceptable under the provisions of this
chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to the Director prior to the user’s initiation of
the changes and shall be in compliance with the existing permit, the terms of
this chapter, and all other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-4)
§ 52.019 DILUTION.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained herein, contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards, or contained in any state
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-5)
§ 52.020 ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense.
Plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection
shall be submitted as part of the application. Review and approval of the plans
and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the
responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Director immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this chapter
in order to enable counter measures to be taken by the Director to minimize
damage to the wastewater disposal system and receiving waters. The notification
will not relieve users of liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the
wastewater disposal system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state or federal law. A notice shall be
permanently posted in the user’s bulletin board or other prominent place
advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug or accidental discharge.
Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge
are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-6)
§ 52.021 SLUDGES GENERATED.
   Sludges, screenings, skimmings, and the like, generated by an industrial or
commercial pretreatment system shall not be placed into the city’s wastewater
disposal system. The materials shall be contained, transported, and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-2-7)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 52.035 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the city’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established in this chapter. The applicable charges or fees shall be
set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees to be prepared from time
to time by the Director and approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-1)
§ 52.036 MONITORING.
   All cost to the city associated with problem related non-scheduled
monitoring, including equipment rental or use, sample gathering, and laboratory
costs, shall be billed to the violating user according to the provisions of §
52.999(B).
(Prior Code, § 14-3-2)
§ 52.037 INSPECTION.
   Routine inspection and surveillance costs shall be paid through the permit
fees.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-3)
§ 52.038 PERMIT.
   The wastewater discharge permit fees shall be proportional to as listed in
the fee schedule ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 14-3-4)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.050 GENERAL USER REPORTS.
   The Director may require that any person discharging or proposing to
discharge wastewater to the wastewater disposal system file a quarterly
discharge report. The discharge report may include, but not be limited to,
nature of process, rates of flow, mass discharge rate, raw material and
production quantities, hours of operation, number and classification of
employees, compliance status with any state or federal pretreatment standards,
or other information which relates to the generation of waste, including
wastewater constituents and concentrations in the wastewater discharge. The
reports may also include sludge disposal practices and the chemical
constituents and quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on site, even
though they may not normally be discharged. At a minimum, a summary of the data
indicating each industrial user’s compliance with this chapter shall be
prepared annually and submitted to the Director. In addition to discharge
reports, the Director may require information in the form of self-monitoring
reports and compliance schedules.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-1)
§ 52.051 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Mandatory permits. All industries proposing to connect or to commence
a new discharge to the wastewater disposal system shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into the wastewater
disposal system if the discharge would result in the industry being classified
as a significant industrial user. All existing significant industrial users or
industrial users subject to national categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(b) and (c) of the Act connected to or discharging into the wastewater
disposal system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days
after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit shall complete and file with the Director an application in the form
prescribed by the Director and accompanied by a fee as provided in §§
52.035 through
52.038. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 90
days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall
apply at least 90 days prior to connecting or discharging to the wastewater
disposal system. The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. Within 45 days of receipt of a completed
application form and after evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the
Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
   (C)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations,
user charges, and fees established by the city. Permits shall contain the
following (where applicable):
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater disposal system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum waste constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities for each point of discharge;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, operation, and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      (6)   Specifications for in-plant monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types, and
standards for tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the Director, but in no case less than
three years, and affording Director access thereto;
      (10)   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the Director of
any new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in
the volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into
the wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
provided in §
52.020 and reporting permit violations;
      (12)   Requirements for disposal of sludges, screenings, skimmings, and
the like; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Permit duration. Permits shall be recertified annually upon submission
of the annual fee as specified in §
52.038. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the Director during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in §§
52.015 through
52.021 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 45 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a schedule for compliance of not less than 180 days.
   (E)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to the standard shall be revised to require compliance with the
standard within the time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit, the user shall
apply for a permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable
national categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an
existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the Director within 180
days after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard a statement indicating whether or not the pretreatment standards are
being met, and if not, whether additional pretreatment and/or operation and
maintenance is required, a schedule shall be submitted which shall comply with
applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If the information previously
submitted in an application is still current and adequate, only a letter from
the user certifying such shall be required.
   (F)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit may be reassigned,
transferred, or sold to a new owner or a new user provided that any succeeding
owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing
permit, and further provided that the Director receives notification on a form
prescribed and provided by the Director of the reassignment, transfer, or sale.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-2)
§ 52.052 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Monitoring facilities for each discharge point to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
systems shall be provided and operated by all industrial users. The monitoring
facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the Director
may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public right-of-way and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The
facility and sampling measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a
safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the Director’s
requirements (as per the discharge permit) and all applicable local
construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be completed
within 90 days following written notification by the Director unless a time
extension is otherwise granted by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-3)
§ 52.053 INSPECTION, SAMPLING, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Director shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with, in accordance with §
10.20. Persons or occupants or premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Director ready access at all reasonable times to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination, or in the performance of any of their duties. The Director, MPCA,
and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such devices as
are necessary to conduct samplings, inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or
metering operations.
   (B)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with any security guards so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Director, MPCA, and EPA will be permitted to
enter without delay for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities relative to the provisions of this and other applicable
ordinances.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge records shall be kept by the user for a period of
at least three years. The records shall include information required in §
52.001 and any requirements of federal regulations.
      (1)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available by the Director to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon
request.
      (2)   Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of the pretreatment standard, or in the case of the
commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater disposal system, shall submit
to the Director during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report indicating
the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
the pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of
all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily
flow reported in §§
52.050 or
52.051(B). The Director may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-4)
§ 52.054 COMPLIANCE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or in the case of the commencement of a new discharge to
the wastewater disposal system, any user subject to pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit to the Director a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user’s facility which are
limited by pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/
or pretreatment is necessary to bring the facility into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by the user and certified to by a qualified professional.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-6)
§ 52.055 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from applications, permits,
monitoring programs, and inspections shall be available to the public or other
government agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that the release
of the information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, and until the time
as the information is determined not to be confidential, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES
permit, state disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment programs,
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. Information
accepted by the Director as confidential shall not be transmitted to any
governmental agency or to the general public by the Director until and unless a
ten-day notification is given to the industrial user.
(Prior Code, § 14-4-7)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.070 SLUG OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service of a user
and/or a wastewater discharge permit after formal written notice to the
discharger when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the Director, in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to
the environment, or to the wastewater disposal system, or would cause the city
to violate any condition of its NPDES or state disposal system permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the discharge. In
the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the Director shall take the steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the wastewater disposal system or endangerment to any individuals. The Director
shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or
accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the Director within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-1)
§ 52.071 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In accordance with the procedures of §§
52.070 through
52.075, the Director may revoke the permit of any user which fails to factually
report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of his or her discharge,
which fails to report significant changes in wastewater constituents or
characteristics, which refuses reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring or for violation of conditions of its
permit, this chapter, or applicable state and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-2)
§ 52.072 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Director finds that any person has violated or is violating
this chapter, wastewater discharge permit, or any prohibition, limitation, or
requirement contained herein, the Director may serve upon the person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the
notice, unless a shorter time frame is necessary due to the nature of the
violation, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to
the city by the user.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-3)
§ 52.073 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the Director may order any user which causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause in a hearing before the City Council why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice of the hearing
shall include proposed enforcement action and shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days
before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a
corporation or one of the persons whose name appears on the permit application.
   (B)   Hearing officials. The City Council may itself conduct the hearing and
take the evidence or may designate any of its members or any officer or
employee of the Public Works Department to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the City
Council for action thereon.
   (C)   Transcripts. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
   (D)   Issuance of orders. After the City Council has reviewed the evidence,
it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices, or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-4)
§ 52.074 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial waste, or other wastes into the
city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the city, the City
Attorney may, following the authorization of the action by the City Council,
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-5)
§ 52.075 APPEAL TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested party shall have the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this chapter and shall be
entitled to a written reply from the city/City Attorney.
   (B)   Any decision of the Director in the enforcement of this chapter maybe
appealed to the City Council by filing a written petition with the City Clerk
within 30 days of the Director’s ruling. The petition shall specify in detail
the matter or matters involved and every ground or basis on which objections
are made. The petition shall show the names, addresses, and telephone numbers
of all objectors and their attorney at law or representative. The filing of a
petition in accordance with the requirements herein shall stay all proceedings
unless the Director shall file within 72 hours after the filing of a petition a
certificate stating that a stay would cause peril to life or property or
specifying other good reason.
   (C)   The City Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
petition or appeal and give due notice of the time and place of the hearing to
parties named in the petition as attorney or spokesperson. The hearing shall be
open to the public. Petitioners shall be given full opportunity to present
evidence in support of their petition after which the Director may present
evidence in support of his or her decision.
   (D)   The City Council shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time and
notify the attorney or representative. The minutes of the Council shall
constitute the official record of the petition, hearing, and decision. Any
party desiring a transcript of the proceedings shall furnish a qualified court
reporter at its own expense.
(Prior Code, § 14-5-6)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have violated an order of
the City Council or who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter
and the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder shall be fined
a fee listed in the fee schedule ordinance. Each day on which a violation shall
occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition
to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney’s
fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees, and other expenses of litigation by
an appropriate action against the person found to have violated this chapter or
the order, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-1)
   (B)   Costs of damage. In addition to the civil penalties provided for in
division (A) above, any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or
who has a discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage, or other
impairment to the city’s wastewater disposal system shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the violation or discharge. The
Director may add to the user’s charges and fees the costs assessed for any
cleaning, repair, monitoring at user’s location, or replacement work caused by
the violation or discharge. Any refusal to pay the assessed costs shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-2)
   (C)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any provision of a permit issued by the city thereunder shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than
the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by law.
      (2)   Any person who continues any violation of any provision of this
chapter or any provision of a permit issued by the city thereunder beyond the
time limit provided for in the Director’s written notice of violation shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the
maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
      (3)   Each day in which a violation referred to in either divisions (D)
(1) or (D)(2) above continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (4)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement or
representation in any record, report, plan, or document filed with the city, or
who falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any monitoring device or
method required under this chapter or any permit issued by the city thereunder
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 14-6-4)
(Ord. 132, passed 1-23-1984; Ord. 274, passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-
2001)
CHAPTER 53: ILLICIT DISCHARGE, DETECTION, AND ELIMINATION
Section
   
53.01   Statutory authorization; purpose and intent
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Responsibility for administration
   
53.05   Ultimate responsibility
   
53.06   Prohibitions
   
53.07   Suspension of MS4 Access
   
53.08   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.09   Monitoring of discharges
   
53.10   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.11   Watercourse protection
   
53.12   Notification of spills
   
53.13   Enforcement
   
53.14   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.15   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
53.16   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
53.17   Injunctive relief
   
53.18   Compensatory action
   
53.19   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
53.20   Criminal prosecution
   
53.21   Remedies not exclusive
§ 53.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, enforcement, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   This section is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in M.S. Ch. 103B and M.S. Ch. 462, as they may be amended from time
to time; Minn. Rules parts 6120.2500 to 6120.3900; Minn. Rules Ch. 8410, 8420,
and 70510.0210.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-1) (Ord. 606, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE. A discharge prohibited by this chapter and without
planning or thought prior to occurrence.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the city designated
to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to the NDPES construction permits.
Currently, these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and
wash water to enter the storm drain system, including any connections to the
storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether the
drain or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an
authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
53.07.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NDPES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A stormwater conveyance or
unified stormwater conveyance system, including, without limitation, roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, stormwater detention
facilities, curbs, gutters, ditches, natural or human-made channels, or storm
drains that:
      (1)   Is located within the corporate limits of the city;
      (2)   Is owned or operated by the state, county, the city, or other
public body; and
      (3)   Discharges to waters of the state and/or United States, excluding
publicly owned treatment works, and lawful connections thereto, which in turn
discharge into the waters of the state and/or United States.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. Any permit
or requirement enforced pursuant to the clean water act as amended for the
purposes of regulating stormwater discharge.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables,
pesticides, herbicides; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal
coliform, and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes;
wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and
noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   POLLUTION. Human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, thermal, and/or radiological integrity of water.
   PREMISES. Any buildings, lot, parcel of land, or portion or land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from the
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges and/or receiving waters to
the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
   WATERS OF THE STATE AND/OR UNITED STATES. All water bodies regulated by the
state and/or United States including streams, lakes, ponds, wetlands, marshes,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations or water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof, or which
may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-2)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-3)
§ 53.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-4)
§ 53.05 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards, therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-6)
§ 53.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A) Prohibition of illicit discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement or continuance of any illicit discharge to the
storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows.
   (B)   Exempt discharges. The following discharges are exempt from discharge
prohibitions established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable
water sources; landscape irrigation or lawn watering; diverted stream flows;
rising ground water; ground water infiltration to storm drains; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; foundation or footing drains (not including active ground
water dewatering systems); crawl space pumps; air conditioning condensation;
springs; non-commercial washing of vehicles; natural riparian habitat or wet-
land flows; dechlorinated swimming pools; fire fighting activities; and any
other water source not containing pollutants:
      (1)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (2)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test; and
      (3)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (C)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows a connection to
continue.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Emergency cease and desist orders. When the city finds that any person
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any
order issued hereunder, or that the person’s past violations are likely to
recur, and that the person’s violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to
an actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States
which reasonably appears to present an imminent or substantial endangerment to
the health or welfare of persons or to the environment, the city may issue an
order to the violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all
violations and directing the violator to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
      (2)   Take appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly
address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge. Any person notified of an
emergency order directed to it under this division (A) shall immediately comply
and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In the event of a discharger’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the emergency order, the city
may take the steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4
or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the
environment, including immediate termination of a facility’s water supply,
sewer connection, or other municipal utility services. The city may allow the
person to recommence its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the authorized enforcement agency that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated against the
discharger under this chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in
part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a
detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful discharge and
the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the authorized
enforcement agency within seven days of receipt of the emergency order.
Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the violator.
   (B)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The city
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when a
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the state and/
or United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take the steps as
deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
state and/or United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (C)   Suspension due to detection of illicit discharges.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated if the termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
a premises terminated pursuant to this section without the prior approval of
the authorized enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-8) (Ord. 606, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.08 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit.
Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
city prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-9)
§ 53.09 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity and construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject
to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter, in accordance with §
10.20. If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
authorized enforcement agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination, and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
the devices as are necessary in the opinion of the authorized enforcement
agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s stormwater
discharge.
      (4)   The city has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing the access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-10) (Ord. 606, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.10 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for
any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution
or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the state
and/or United States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial
establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and
nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premises,
which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at the person’s expense, additional structural and nonstructural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES
permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial
activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the
provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements of the
NPDES permit.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-11)
§ 53.11 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or the
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that the structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-12)
§ 53.12 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illicit discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the state and/
or United States the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of the release. In the event of a release
of hazardous materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, the person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Public Works Director, City of Monticello
within three business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited
materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or
operator of the establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of
the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. The records
shall be retained for at least three years.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-13)
§ 53.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Warning notice. When the city finds that any person has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or any order issued
hereunder, the city may serve upon that person or business a written warning
notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and
requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a
resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or
resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves
the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this division (A) shall limit the
authority of the city staff to take any action, including emergency action or
any other enforcement action, without first issuing a warning notice.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Whenever the city finds a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of violation to the
responsible person. The notice of violation shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
      (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure, or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
      (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
      (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of the
remedial action;
      (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
      (6)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the city by filing a written notice of appeal within 30 days of service of
notice of violation; and
      (7)   A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to restore
compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done by a
designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the violator. The notice may require without limitation:
         (a)   Monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         (b)   Elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         (c)   Abatement of pollution and hazards;
         (d)   Restoration of affected property;
         (e)   Payment of fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
         (f)   Implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; and
         (g)   Other actions as deemed necessary by the city.
   (C)   Deadline for restoration. If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which the remediation or restoration must be completed. Notice
shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore
within the established deadline, the work will be done by a designated
governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to
the violator.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-14) (Ord. 606, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 53.14 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be received within
14 calendar days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the
appeal before the appropriate authority or his or her designee shall take place
within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the municipal authority or its designee shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-15)
§ 53.15 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven
calendar days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision
of the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property, in accordance with §
10.20. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.16 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 calendar days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within 30 calendar days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by
the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-17)
§ 53.17 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.18 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-19)
§ 53.19 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement of processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of the nuisance may be taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-20)
§ 53.20 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter
shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law.
   (B)   The enforcement agency may recover all attorneys’ fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-21)
§ 53.21 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Prior Code, § 7-10-22)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND RECYCLING
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Dump regulations
   
54.03   Incinerator; license fee
   
54.04   Dumping only in permitted places
   
54.05   Officer responsible
   
54.06   Revocation
   
54.07   Garbage/refuse/recycling services
   
54.08   Compost facilities
   
54.09   Ownership of recyclable materials set out for curb-side collection
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPOSTABLE BAG. A paper or plastic bag that meets the American Society for
Testing Materials Standard Specification for Compostable Plastics (D6400).
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any inspector or any other representative duly
appointed by the City Council.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable waste and all putrescible matter.
   PRIVATE DUMP. All parcels of land on which nonputrescible refuse is accepted
for deposit or permitted to be deposited regardless of whether a charge is made
therefor.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes that do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner
that precludes further use.
   REFUSE. All waste substances, including garbage.
   SANITARY LAND FILL. A type of operation in which refuse is deposited by plan
on a specified portion of open land, is compacted by forces applied by
mechanical equipment, and then is covered by a layer of earth, ashes, or
suitable covering material to a depth of at least two feet.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-1)
§ 54.02 DUMP REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations shall be observed by any person to whom a
permit is issued by the city for the operation of all a sanitary landfill or
dump.
   (B)   These regulations shall govern the operation of all the city-approved
sanitary landfills and dumps, and any failure to observe these regulations
shall be sufficient grounds for the revocation of the permit by the City
Council.
      (1)   All garbage and other refuse accepted by the landfill permit holder
shall be thoroughly compacted by equipment of a size and weight capable of
producing a downward or ground pressure of at least five pounds per square
inch. The equipment shall have sufficient weight and capacity to carry out all
necessary operations to the satisfaction of the enforcement officer. Sufficient
auxiliary equipment shall be maintained on the site or otherwise available to
permit operation in case of a breakdown.
      (2)   Mixed refuse material shall be spread out on the working face of
the landfill so that the depth does not exceed a maximum depth of two feet
prior to its compaction.
      (3)   The areas shall be continually policed to prevent fire and the
blowing of papers, shall be neat and sanitary at all times, and shall be
covered at the end of each day’s operation, as well as when wind conditions
warrant it through the day, with sufficient material to prevent blowing papers
and unsightly conditions. The size of the active face on which refuse is being
currently deposited shall be kept to a minimum.
      (4)   Cover material will consist of earth, loam, clay, sand, or a
mixture of at least 50% earth and other inert materials such as ashes, cinders,
or gravel. A minimum depth of 12 inches of compacted cover and final spread
cover material shall be kept on all inactive faces of the landfill at all
times. The active faces of the landfills should be covered at the end of each
day’s operation or as otherwise directed by the inspector.
      (5)   When the landfill or dump has been brought up to two feet below the
desired finished grade, it shall be covered with at least 24 inches of
compacted cover material graded and seeded in a manner as to prevent erosion.
      (6)   Where the “trench system” of sanitary landfill is used, successive
paralleled trenches must be at least two feet apart.
      (7)   All garbage and refuse material existing on the site at the time
the permit is issued either in the form of an open dump or any other form shall
be collected, compacted, and covered with cover material at least one foot in
depth if below the desired finished grade or with inert material at least two
feet in depth at the finished grade. This cover operation shall be completed
within 15 working days after the issuance of a special permit for the sanitary
landfill.
      (8)   The permittee or operator shall erect such temporary or permanent
fences or take other measures as may be necessary to reasonably control blowing
of paper and other materials from the landfill or dump.
      (9)   Any material salvaged from the landfill or dump must be handled and
stored in a manner as to prevent rat harborage and permit proper operation of
the landfill or dump. The salvaged material must be removed to a location at
least 200 feet from the working surface so as not to interfere with the
compacting and covering. All salvaged material must be completely removed from
the site every 24 hours unless provision is made for temporary storage within
an enclosed, roofed, and rat-proof structure approved by the inspector.
      (10)   Burning of any materials deposited in a dump or landfill is
expressly prohibited, except that in the case of tree limbs, wooden crates,
which burn readily without smouldering or producing offensive odors, may be
burned in a separate place at least 200 feet away from the area where refuse is
being compacted and covered, provided precautions are taken to confine the fire
and the burning is done in a manner as not to create a nuisance condition. All
burning shall be restricted to the hours between 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m.
      (11)   Adequate fire fighting equipment shall be available at all times
on the site or the operator shall furnish the inspector with proof of fire
fighting equipment between the operator and the local fire district.
      (12)   No fill shall be placed in stream beds or other areas where
streams would be obstructed or where erosion by the stream would remove cover
material. There shall be no seepage or drainage of any material from the fill
of a nature as would constitute an odor nuisance or health hazard or pollute
any watercourse.
      (13)   The permit holder shall provide an access road approved by the
inspector that is passable in all types of weather conditions to the dumping
site.
      (14)   The license holder shall also provide an auxiliary fill site
available and ready for use during periods of heavy rain or snowfall and when
the area being filled and covered may not be reached because of the weather
condition. The permit holder shall also take precautions to eliminate excess
dust in dry weather.
      (15)   Insects and rodents on the site shall be controlled and
exterminated as directed by the inspector.
      (16)   The permit holder shall cease operations and close the landfill
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. and on Sundays and holidays.
      (17)   For good and sufficient reasons, the City Council may grant
exceptions to the above operating procedures and standards or may impose
additional requirements subject to specific site conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-4)
§ 54.03 INCINERATOR; LICENSE FEE.
   If a permittee wishes to install an incinerator at a dump or landfill, he or
she shall apply to the City Council for permission to do so. The Council shall
refer the request to the Planning Commission and engineer for recommendations
as to whether an incinerator shall be permitted and, if so, what conditions, if
any, shall be imposed in connection with the incinerator. After receiving the
reports, the Council may grant or deny the request for the incinerator; and if
the request is granted, conditions may be imposed in connection with the
operation of the incinerator. If the request is granted, the annual license fee
shall be increased by $25.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-5)
§ 54.04 DUMPING ONLY IN PERMITTED PLACES.
   No person, including those persons hauling or disposing of garbage or
refuse, trash, or other rubbish for a fee, shall deposit or dispose of any
garbage, trash, or other refuse on any property in the city not operated under
a permit issued by the City Council. Each sanitary landfill or dump shall
display a prominent sign containing the words “Approved Sanitary Landfill or
Dump Operated Under Permit No.         issued by the City of Monticello”.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-6)
§ 54.05 OFFICER RESPONSIBLE.
   The officer responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be appointed by the City Council. He or she shall provide
adequate and frequent inspections of the sanitary landfill sites and to this
end shall be authorized to call upon the Planning Commission for assistance in
making inspections. He or she shall notify any permit holder who is violating
the provisions of this subchapter of the specific manner in which the
subchapter is being violated. Unless the violation is corrected within 24 hours
after notice in writing to the permit holder by the inspector, the inspector
shall notify the Council of any violation of the provisions of this subchapter
that the Council may, after a public hearing to which the violator shall have
been invited, suspend or revoke any permit for noncompliance or violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter or when satisfied that the landfill or
dump constitutes a real menace and nuisance to the health, safety, and welfare
of the immediate residents in the neighborhood in which it is located. In the
event the permit holder refuses to correct the violation within 24 hours after
notice in writing by the inspector, the inspector may, if he or she deems it
necessary in the interest of public health, enter upon the premises of the dump
or landfill and, either with the equipment and by employees of the license
holder, or with the city-owned or leased equipment and city employees, do the
work as is necessary to correct any condition violative of this subchapter, and
which in his or her opinion if left uncorrected may be hazardous to the public
health. The cost to the city of correcting the condition in privately owned
dumps or landfills shall be assessed against the permit holder who shall be
required to pay all the costs and expenses of the city in correcting the
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-7)
§ 54.06 REVOCATION.
   Any permit or license granted hereunder may be revoked or suspended at any
time for any failure to pay the license fee or the cost of correcting hazardous
conditions as hereinbefore set forth or whenever, in the opinion of the
inspector, the continuance of the landfill or other means of final disposal of
refuse would endanger the health, welfare, or safety of the public, provided
that no such permit or license shall be revoked or suspended except for to pay
the fee, or the cost of correcting hazardous conditions as herein provided
except after public hearing before the City Council after the notice of the
hearing, and the purpose thereof shall have been sent to the permit holder at
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, at which hearing any person
interested in the landfill shall have the right to be heard.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-8)
§ 54.07 GARBAGE/REFUSE/RECYCLING SERVICES.
   (A)   Service rates. The city operates an organized garbage collection and
disposal program for all residential properties within the city under the
authority of M.S. Ch. 443, as it may be amended from time to time. The city
hereby establishes a per unit service charge for garbage/refuse/recycling
collection and related services for each residential property unit that is
individually served.
      (1)   A service charge for garbage/refuse/recycling collection, disposal,
and container rental provided to residential units within the city shall be
billed at the rates as established by City Council.
      (2)   Recycling services are provided for all residential units in the
city as per the city’s requirements under the city recycling plan.
      (3)   Garbage/refuse/recycling bills shall be payable monthly with the
utility bill by the date specified on the bill. Mobile home parks shall be
billed in aggregate to the owner of the mobile home park. For other clustered
individually served residential units such as townhomes, the city has the
discretion to bill either a home owner association in aggregate or each
homeowner. Monthly charges apply to temporarily vacated property. The charge is
for service rendered in the month of the bill. Penalties will be assessed on
delinquent garbage/refuse/recycling charges at the same rate as other utility
charges.
   (B)   Delinquent garbage/refuse/recycling accounts.
      (1)   All charges for garbage/refuse/recycling service shall be due by
the due date stated on the utility bill. Any bill not paid by the due date
shall be deemed delinquent. Thereafter, the delinquent garbage/refuse/recycling
service charge shall be certified to the City Clerk who shall prepare an
assessment roll each year providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts
against the properties involved. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the
City Council for adoption before October 30 of each year. Upon the adoption,
the City Clerk shall certify the assessment roll to the County Auditor for
collection along with taxes.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service to any customer
for nonpayment of charges or bills whose account is more than 60 days past due.
The discontinuance of service shall not be made without written notice. If
service is disconnected, it shall not be resumed except upon payment of the
charges or bills accrued together with interest and penalty thereon.
   (C)   Revision of garbage/refuse/recycling rates and recycling plan. The
City Council reserves the right to adjust the rates charged from time to time
and to amend the city’s garbage/refuse/recycling policy.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-9) (Ord. 195, passed 8-27-1990; Ord. 214, passed 10-28-1991;
Ord. 317, passed 9-28-1998; Ord. 520, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 688, passed 12-11-
2017)
§ 54.08 COMPOST FACILITIES.
   (A)   Only yard waste and compostable bags, as specifically identified on
the bag as ASTM 6400, may be accepted at the compost facility.
   (B)   All residents who bag their leaves for curbside pickup are required to
use compostable bags (identified on the bag as ASTM 6400).
(Ord. 694, passed 3-12-2018)
§ 54.09 OWNERSHIP OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS SET OUT FOR CURB-SIDE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this subchapter is to prevent the unauthorized
collection of materials that are designated as recyclables and set out as part
of the city’s curb-side recycling program. The theft of these materials will
deprive the contractor of their market value and forces overall costs to go up.
These costs will eventually be passed on to the citizens of the city. The city
will also be deprived of credit for recycling tonnage reported to the county
and the state.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTRACTOR. Any person/firm that has entered into a written contract with
the city for the collection of garbage, rubbish, recyclables, and yard waste.
      CURB-SIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM. The organized collection of items designated
as recyclable by the contractor in accordance with the city’s plan.
      ITEMS DESIGNATED AS RECYCLABLE. Items agreed upon by the city and the
contractor to be collected in the curb-side recycling program.
      SET OUT FOR COLLECTION. The placing of materials designated as
recyclables by the residents of the city at curb side for collection by the
contractor.
      UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION (SCAVENGING). The collection by any person(s)
other than the contractor or his or her authorized representative of materials
that are designated as recyclables and set out for collection by the residents.
   (C)   Prohibition of unauthorized collection of materials set out for the
curb-side recycling program.
      (1)   The materials designated as recyclable shall be the sole property
of the city from the time of set out for collection by the resident or when
placed in the designated containers in the case of multiple units until
collection by the contractor. At the time of collection, items designated as
recyclable shall become the sole property of the contractor.
      (2)   The designation of recyclables shall be accomplished by mutual
agreement between the city and the contractor.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) other than the authorized
contractor or his or her representative to collect any items that are
designated as recyclables and set out for collection as part of the city’s
curb-side recycling program.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10) (Ord. 182, passed 10-23-1989; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
54.01 through
54.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-6-10) (Ord. 182, passed 10-23-1989; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
70.01   Act adopted
   
70.02   Parking and stopping
   
70.03   Removal of vehicles
   
70.04   Owner
   
70.05   Protection and preservation of city streets
   
70.06   Street names
   
70.07   Unreasonable acceleration and erratic driving
   
70.08   Parking in regard to snow plowing and/or removal
   
70.09   Unlawful purposes for parking (overnight lodging)
Boulevards
   
70.20   Purpose
   
70.21   Definition
   
70.22   Allowable uses
   
70.23   Prohibited uses
   
70.24   Maintenance
Registration of Vehicles and Operators
   
70.35   Motor vehicles; application
   
70.36   Driver’s licenses; application
   
70.37   Definitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire lanes, see §§ 95.15 and 95.16
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Recreational motor vehicles, see
Chapter 71
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 ACT ADOPTED.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways,
streets, and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this subchapter as complete as if set out here in full.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
§ 70.02 PARKING AND STOPPING.
   (A)   Except for the city or county on its own rights-of-way, no person
shall utilize any portion of any local public right-of-way, including the
traveled street, boulevard, or public parking lot for the storage or parking of
any object or material which is not a licensed, operable motor vehicle,
passenger vehicle, or motorcycle as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd. 42, 44,
and 52, as they may be amended from time to time, except as may be explicitly
permitted on a temporary period of time by the City Council or its designated
representative.
   (B)   Properly licensed, operable motor vehicles, passenger vehicles, and
motorcycles may be parked in the public street where permitted but not on the
boulevard portion of the public right-of-way subject to the further
requirements of local parking regulations and applicable state statutes. A
trailer of any type, properly licensed or not, is not considered a motor
vehicle or part thereof when disconnected from its tow vehicle:
      (1)   On a sidewalk or boulevard between sidewalk and roadway;
      (2)   On a crosswalk;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
      (5)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (6)   Within 30 feet of any arterial stop sign or sign indicating the
direction for travel;
      (7)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street or highway;
      (8)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking;
      (9)   In any manner on any street or highway so as to interfere with or
interrupt the passage of other vehicles;
      (10)   Along the curb adjacent to any school property from 8:00 a.m. to
4:00 p.m. on days when school is in session;
      (11)   On any street or roadway between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. from November 15 through April 1 or when a snow event is declared, except
physicians on emergency calls;
      (12)   On any city street for more than 72 consecutive hours;
      (13)   On any city street for more than the posted time limit as
established by the City Council; and/or
      (14)   Within ten feet of a mailbox.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 65, passed 3-12-1979; Ord. 193, passed 5-14-1990;
Ord. 449, passed 8-28-2006; Ord. 748, passed 9-28-2020; Ord. 792, passed 11-14-
2022; Ord. 814, passed 11-13-2023; Ord. 817, passed 11-27-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a motor vehicle has been parked or stopped
in violation of any regulation contained herein, the officer is hereby
authorized to move the vehicle, provide for the removal of the vehicle and the
impounding of the same, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same. Any removal and/or impounding of the vehicle shall be
at the expense of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-3)
§ 70.04 OWNER.
   For the purposes of this section, the term OWNER shall mean the person,
firm, or corporation who holds legal title on the date of any alleged violation
as evidenced by the official records of the state’s Secretary of State. Copies
of any of the files or records of the Secretary of State certified as being
true copies shall be received in evidence with the same force and effect as the
originals, shall be admissible without further foundation, and shall be prima
facie evidence as to the ownership of the vehicle, but nothing herein contained
shall exclude or prohibit the introduction of other evidence bearing on the
issue of ownership.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-4)
§ 70.05 PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION OF CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Tractors or other types of vehicles with lugs. Tractors or other
vehicles with lugs thereon or any other type of farm machinery that is not
equipped with rubber tires are hereby prohibited from using bituminous treated
streets or parking lots in the city; and whoever drives such a vehicle upon the
streets whereby the streets or parking lots shall be damaged shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Load limits on city streets or parking lots. It shall also be unlawful
for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to drive any vehicle over
streets or parking lots having an axle weight load in excess of five tons
during periods of the year when county road restrictions are not in effect.
During periods of county road restriction or on streets designed for more than
five tons, the current city street design map adopted by the City Council shall
take precedence over the five ton limit and can be more or less restrictive.
Any person, firm, or corporation wishing to drive vehicles in excess of above
mentioned weight over any of the streets of the city shall first apply to the
City Administrator for his or her permission. The Council may designate certain
streets to be used regularly by such persons, firm, or corporation in the
operation of their business, outlining certain routes that the vehicles are to
follow and that no deviation from the routes will be permissible.
   (C)   Trucks operating on residential streets. It will be unlawful for any
person or persons, firms, or corporations to operate a truck of over 12,000
pounds gross weight on residential streets except those trucks that are
actually engaged in making deliveries or pickups at residential dwellings.
Further, they will utilize state highways or designated truck routes wherever
possible when making these deliveries or pickups. All other truck traffic not
making deliveries or pickups will utilize only state highways or designated
truck routes. Trucks making deliveries or pickups on residential streets will
adhere to the provisions of division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5) (Ord. 146, passed 4-8-1985; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 STREET NAMES.
   Street names have been adopted according to the official city map on file at
City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-6) (Ord. 26, passed 12-27-1976)
§ 70.07 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION AND ERRATIC DRIVING.
   (A)   Unreasonable acceleration.
      (1)   Unreasonable acceleration by any motor vehicle upon any public
highway, street, parking lot, alley, or other public property within the limits
of the city, except when an emergency creates the necessity for such operation,
is prohibited.
      (2)   UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE is hereby defined as
acceleration which unnecessarily breaks traction between a tire or tires and
the driving surface, thereby causing a squealing or screeching sound by the
tire or tires or the unnecessary throwing of sand or gravel by the tire or
tires or both.
   (B)   Erratic driving. No person shall drive a vehicle on a public highway,
street, parking lot, alley, or other public property at erratic or irregular
and changing speeds so as to create a hazard to himself or herself or other
persons or property or so interfere with other traffic in the area.
   (C)   Exhibition driving.
      (1)   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle upon any public
highway, street, parking lot, alley, or other public property within the limits
of the city which causes unnecessary engine noise or backfire, nor shall anyone
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. parade a motor vehicle upon any
public highway, street, parking lot, alley, or other public property within the
limits of the city.
      (2)   PARADE A MOTOR VEHICLE is hereby defined as driving or operating a
motor vehicle up, down, or up and down, the same highway, street, parking lot,
alley, or other public property more than three times within a 30-minute
period.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7) (Ord. 42, passed 10-10-1977; Ord. 164, passed 10-11-1988;
Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 PARKING IN REGARD TO SNOW PLOWING AND/OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   After a snowfall, all streets in the city shall be cleared of all
motor vehicles and parts thereof for the purposes of snow plowing and/or
removal until all streets are plowed.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle or parts thereof left on any street or boulevard in
the city in a way as to impede the performance of the city and/or state
snowplow shall be dealt with under §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-8) (Ord. 155, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 70.09 UNLAWFUL PURPOSES FOR PARKING (OVERNIGHT LODGING).
   No person shall park a vehicle upon the park and ride lot for the purpose of
camping, sleeping, or inhabiting the lot.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-9) (Ord. 624, passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
BOULEVARDS
§ 70.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect public rights-of-way in the
city from encroachments.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
§ 70.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the public right-of-way not used for street
purposes.
   CLUSTER CONCEPT. Mailboxes in groups of four or more with groups no closer
than 200 feet to another group, and placed at locations and configurations as
approved by the City Street Superintendent and/or U.S. Post Master.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
§ 70.22 ALLOWABLE USES.
   Following are allowable uses of a boulevard:
   (A)   Trees or shrubs as regulated by §
92.48;
   (B)   Mailboxes for U.S. Postal Service, provided all installations of
mailboxes in new subdivisions are of the “cluster” concept;
   (C)   Driveway accesses as regulated by city’s zoning ordinance;
   (D)   Sidewalks when constructed according to specifications as set forth
and approved by the City Engineer; and
   (E)   Advertising/newspaper boxes or tubes under the following conditions.
      (1)   The advertising/newspaper boxes or tubes must be of an all-purpose/
universal type without any advertising, whether individual or cluster concept.
      (2)   (a)   The following subdivisions/areas may continue to have one
advertising/newspaper box per parcel until the time as the U.S. Postal Service
or developer converts individual mail boxes to the “cluster” box concept:
            1.   East County Road 39;
            2.   Hart Boulevard;
            3.   Anders Wilhelm and Balboul Estates; and
            4.   West County Road 75.
         (b)   Upon conversion of mail boxes to the cluster concept all
advertising/newspaper boxes must also be clustered.
      (3)   In all new subdivisions or areas where the U.S. Postal Service,
developer, or owner installs cluster mail boxes, all advertising/newspaper
boxes shall be allowed by the cluster concept only.
      (4)   All advertising/newspaper boxes, whether individual or clustered,
shall be maintained by the installer and shall be repaired or replaced within
ten days upon written notice by the city, or the city will have the box or
boxes removed at the owner’s expense. The city shall not be responsible for
damage to any box erected within the boulevard.
      (5)   All mailboxes including posts, supports, and clusters for U.S.
Postal Service and advertising are the responsibility of the properties
included in the mailbox.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3) (Ord. 154, passed 4-13-1987; Ord. 156, passed 6-22-1987;
Ord. 254, passed 8-8-1994)
§ 70.23 PROHIBITED USES.
   All uses of a boulevard not listed in §
70.22 are prohibited unless a permit has been approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 MAINTENANCE.
   Property owners abutting a boulevard are responsible for maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-5) (Ord. 48, passed 4-10-1977)
REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES AND OPERATORS
§ 70.35 MOTOR VEHICLES; APPLICATION.
   Every motor vehicle used or operated on any highway within the city shall be
registered in compliance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 168, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
§ 70.36 DRIVER’S LICENSES; APPLICATION.
   Every person who is required by M.S. Ch. 171, as it may be amended from time
to time, to be licensed in order to operate a vehicle or a motor vehicle upon a
highway within the state shall at all times while operating a vehicle or motor
vehicle on any highway within the city have in his or her immediate possession,
a license issued in compliance with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 171, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
§ 70.37 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases HIGHWAY, MOTOR VEHICLE, OWNER, PERSON, and VEHICLE
shall have the meanings ascribed to them by M.S. Ch. 168 and Ch. 171, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
70.01 is a violation of the ordinance when it occurs within the city. Any
person thus violating any provision of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
If a minimum fine or imprisonment is prescribed by the state’s Highway Traffic
Act, being M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be maned from time to time, for the offense
or if the offense be classified as a petty misdemeanor, the penalty and/or
classification shall apply to a person convicted of the same offense under §
70.01.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.05 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-5)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.07 is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished
not more than the maximum penalty as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-7)
   (E)   The owner and operator of any motor vehicle operated in violation of §
70.35, and any person violating §
70.36 hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by
state law. If a minimum fine or imprisonment is prescribed by state law for an
offense or if the offense be classified as petty misdemeanor, the penalty and/
or classification shall apply to the person convicted of the offense under §§
70.35 or
70.36.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
(Ord. 164, passed 10-11-1988; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Purpose and intent
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Permitted operation of a recreational motor vehicle
   
71.04   Restrictions of recreation motor vehicles
   
71.05   Designation of public areas for use
   
71.06   Minimum equipment requirements
   
71.07   Street crossings
   
71.08   Compliance
   
71.09   Permit revocation
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
    The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for the
use of recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in the city.
It is intended to protect life, property, and to prevent public nuisances. No
section hereafter shall be construed to minimize regulations set forth in M.S.
Ch. 168 (Motor Vehicle Registration), as it may be amended from time to time,
M.S. Ch. 169 (Motor Vehicle Operation)/(Driver License Regulations), as it may
be amended from time to time, and M.S. §§ 84.81 et seq. (Snowmobile
Regulations), as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given in M.S. § 84.92, subd.
8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   CLASS 1 ATV. An ATV that has a total width from outside of tire rim to
outside of tire rim that is 50 inches or less.
   CLASS 2 ATV. A Class 2 all-terrain vehicle means an all-terrain vehicle that
has a total width from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim to outside of
tire rim that is greater than 50 inches but not more than 65 inches.
   DRIVER-OPERATOR. Every person who drives or operates and is in actual
physical control of a recreational vehicle.
   ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLES. A device with two or three wheels; a saddle and
fully operable pedals for human propulsion; and an electric motor that is:
1,000 watts or less, incapable of propelling faster than 20 miles per hour,
incapable of further increasing the speed of the device when human power alone
is used to propel the vehicle at a speed of more than 20 miles per hour and
disengages or ceases to function when the vehicles brakes are applied.
   GOLF CART. A self-propelled three or four-wheeled vehicle designated for and
commonly used for transportation on a golf course that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 800 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less
than 800 pounds. Vehicles that are required to be registered with the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources do not fall within the definition of a golf
cart for purposes of this code.
   MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER. A device with handle bars designed to be stood or
sat upon by the operator, and powered by an internal combustion engine or
electric motor that is capable of propelling the device with or without human
propulsion, and that has no more than two 12-inch or smaller diameter wheels
and has an engine or motor that is capable of a maximum speed of 15 miles per
hour on a flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when the
motor is engaged.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to a recreational motor vehicle entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE (RMV). Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes
including, but not limited to trail bike, off-highway motorcycle, as defined by
M.S. § 84.787, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time, or other all-
terrain vehicle as defined by M.S. §§ 84.90 and 84.92, subd. 8 through subd. 10
as they may be amended from time to time, or motorized go-carts, hovercraft, or
motor vehicle licensed for highway operation, which is being used for off-road
recreational purposes, but not including motorized golf carts, personal
electric mobility devices, motorized foot scooters, neighborhood electric
vehicles, medium-speed electric vehicles, or mini-trucks.
   SEGWAYS OR ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing
device with two tandem wheels, designed to transport not more than one person,
and operated by an electric propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of
the device to 15 miles per hour.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.03 PERMITTED OPERATION OF A RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
    The following recreational motor vehicles shall be specifically permitted.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle Class 2 ATV as defined M.S. § 84.92, subd. 10,
as it may be amended from time to time, shall be permitted to operate on city
street, or other city roadway and parking lot designed for vehicular traffic.
      (1)   Owner-operator must present proof of registration and display if
the registration is required by M.S. § 84.92, as it may be amended from time to
time and must be permitted by the city, fee set forth in the city's fee
schedule.
   (B)   Snowmobiles may be operated for general recreational use as a direct
route for access to and from the operator's residence for the purpose of
entering or leaving the city on the extreme right-hand side of the right-of-way
streets, roadways, or alleys that are used for other public motor vehicular
travel and that are under the jurisdiction of the city and follow all
regulations described in M.S. § 84.87, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time
to time. Map of designated route on file at City Hall.
   (C)   Owner-operator must hold valid insurance complying with M.S. § 658.48,
subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Class 1 and Class 2 ATVs, golf carts and snowmobiles shall obey all
city and state traffic laws when operating vehicles on city streets.
   (E)   A Class 1 ATV and golf-carts as permitted by the city and allowed in
specific locations as noted in the City of Monticello Class 1 ATV/Golf Cart
Street Map. Application for a permit must be made on a form with fee set forth
in city fee schedule supplied by the city and must contain all of the following
information:
      (1)   The registered owner's name, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   The make, model, year and ATV or golf cart;
      (3)   Proof of insurance. The applicant must provide evidence of
insurance in compliance with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes;
      (4)   Current driver's license or reason for not having a current
license; and
      (5)   Golf carts and Class 1 ATVs are only permitted to be operated on
designated city streets. Designated streets are those which are considered to
be local in nature, under Monticello jurisdiction, and 30 mph or less. Golf
carts and Class 1 ATVs are not permitted to travel down county, state, or roads
built with state-aid funds. the streets which are designated for golf cart
operation are shown on the city's ATV/Golf Cart Street Map, which is on file
and of record with the City Clerk. Golf carts and Class 1 ATVs are permitted to
cross over any non-designated street or highway that intersects a designated
city street. With this exception, golf carts and Class 1 ATVs shall not, for
any period of time or distance, travel down any streets or highways not
permitted for golf cart use.
   (F)   Motorized foot scooters as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd. 46, as it
may be amended from time to time, may be operated within the city pursuant to
and in accordance with M.S. § 169.225, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Segways or electric personal assistive mobility devices as defined by
M.S. § 169.011, subd. 26, as it may be amended from time to time, may be
operated within the city pursuant to and in accordance with M.S. § 169.212, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   Electronic assisted bicycles as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd. 27,
as it may be amended from time to time, may be operated in the city pursuant to
and in accordance with M.S. § 169.223, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.04 RESTRICTIONS OF RECREATION MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)    Recreational motor vehicles shall not be allowed, except as
specifically permitted in this chapter.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to operate any recreational motor
vehicle as listed below. Class 1 and Class 2 ATVs and snowmobiles may not
operate:
      (1)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within 300 feet of a
residence;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable, prudent, or proper
under all the surrounding circumstance, but in no case exceeding 15 mph for
snowmobiles and 20 mph for Class 1 ATV;
      (3)   On publicly owned land, including school, city street, park
property, playgrounds, or recreation areas, nor on any sidewalks or pathways in
the city provided for pedestrian and/or bicycle travel;
      (4)   Class 1 and Class 2 ATVs cannot be operated on the road ditch
bottom or outside ditch slope unless on a trail designated;
      (5)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
      (6)   On private property or another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property;
      (7)   While under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined in M.S. §
169A.20, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (8)   So as to intentionally chase, run over, or kill any animal;
      (9)   On any roadway, shoulder, or inside bank or slope of any city
trunk, county state aid, or county highway in the city, except as provided in
this chapter, nor shall operation on any such highway be permitted where the
roadway directly abuts a public sidewalk or walkway;
      (10)   Without headlight and taillight lighted at all times if the
vehicle is equipped
with headlight and taillight;
      (11)   Without a brake operational by either hand or foot; or
      (12)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate a Class 2 ATV while
carrying a passenger except for a parent or lawful guardian.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DESIGNATION OF PUBLIC AREAS FOR USE.
    The City Council may designate areas for use of recreational motor vehicles
by approval of a majority of the members of the Council upon public notice
being given.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.06 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Class 1 ATV, Class 2 ATV and Snowmobiles.
      (1)   Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant
operation to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe, or similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
      (2)   Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement of and to stop and
hold under any conditions of operation.
      (3)   At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least
100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions. The head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into
the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at
least one red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This
equipment shall be required and shall be in operating condition when the
vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
      (4)   Snowmobiles require reflective material at least 16 square inches
on each side, forward of the handlebars, so as to reflect a beam of light at a
90-degree angle.
      (5)   Seat belts are required to be worn by the operator and all
passenger if the vehicle is equipped with them and the operator and all
passengers shall wear a safety helmet approved by the Minnesota Commissioner of
Public Safety when required by state law.
      (6)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a recreational vehicle regulated herein on public land,
public waters, or on a public road right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (7)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when a
seat belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
   (B)   Golf Carts.
      (1)   The operator must have in his or her actual physical possession a
valid, current, and unrevoked golf cart permit while operating the golf cart on
a city street along with proof of insurance.
      (2)   Operator must be no less than age 16 and must hold a valid
Minnesota Driver's license.
      (3)   The operator is responsible for operating the golf cart in
accordance with this section, and all other city, county, and state laws and
regulations.
      (4)   Golf carts must be operated on the pavement and not within any
boulevard or ditch, city sidewalk, trail or walkway used for pedestrian travel,
or other publicly owned land.
      (5)   Golf carts must only transport as many persons as it was designed
by the manufacturer to carry.
      (6)   Golf carts must not be operated on city streets during inclement
weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other
conditions or at any time when there is insufficient visibility to clearly see
persons or vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (7)   Every person operating a golf cart on a city street has the rights
and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle and must comply with
the provisions of any traffic law of the City of Monticello and M.S. Ch. 169,
as it may be amended from time to time, except when these provisions cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise
specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, subd. 7, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (8)   Equipment required. All golf carts must have the following
equipment when operating on city streets:
         (a)   A slow-moving vehicle emblem provided in M.S. § 169.522
prominently displayed on the rear of the vehicle;
         (b)   A rear-view mirror so located as to reflect to the operator a
view of the roadway for a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear of the
vehicle;
         (c)   Parking brakes to hold the vehicle in place when unattended;
         (d)   Night driving. Golf carts may only be operated between the hours
of sunrise and sunset unless equipped with original headlights, taillights, and
rear-facing brake lights.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.07 STREET CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No person under 16 years of age operating the vehicles regulated
herein shall make a direct crossing of any street, highway, or public right-of-
way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on a public street, highway, or road
right-of-way; or operate a vehicle regulated herein on public lands or waters,
except that a person at least ten years of age but under 12 years of age may
operate an all-terrain vehicle with an engine capacity up to 110cc on public
lands or waters if accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   A recreational vehicle may make a direct crossing of a public road
right-of-way provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the road and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and
safe crossing.
      (2)   The vehicle is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the road.
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic that
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      (4)   In crossing a divided road, the crossing is made only at an
intersection of the road with another public road.
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.08 COMPLIANCE.
   It is unlawful for an owner-operator to permit a recreational motor vehicle
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon finding that
the holder has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
    Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law. Hereunder upon a finding
that the holder has violated any of the provisions of this section or M.S. Ch.
169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if there is evidence that the
permit holder cannot safely operate the golf cart on the designated city
streets.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8) (Ord. 685, passed 11-27-2017; Ord. 777, passed 5-23-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   PUBLIC GATHERINGS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Other Domestic Animals
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Enforcement
   
90.003   Right of entry
   
90.004   Running at large prohibited
   
90.005   Wild or vicious animals prohibited
   
90.006   Animal Control Officer
   
90.007   Interfering with Animal Control Officer
   
90.008   Rabies vaccination requirements
   
90.009   Impoundment of rabies suspects
   
90.010   Confinement of animals with history of biting
   
90.011   Abandonment of animals
   
90.012   Dog license required
   
90.013   Dog license fee and application
   
90.014   Unauthorized use of dog license receipts, tags of inoculation
certificates
   
90.015   Limit on number of dogs and cats
   
90.016   Dog tags
   
90.017   Impounding dogs
   
90.018   Impounding stray dogs
   
90.019   Disposition of certain diseased or dangerous dogs or other animals
   
90.020   Redemption of dogs and other animals
   
90.021   Possession of nuisance animals
   
90.022   Dogs disturbing the peace; enforcement
   
90.023   Cleaning up litter
   
90.024   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.025   Permits for commercial dog kennels; permits for keeping more than
three dogs over the age of six months
Animals; Fowl
   
90.040   Animals kept within city limits
   
90.041   Stables
   
90.042   Animals, fowl within city limits; permits
   
90.043   Application for permit
   
90.044   Duration of permit; fee
   
90.045   Conditions for keeping animals; revocation
   
90.046   Refusal to grant permit
   
90.047   Pens; yards
   
90.048   Animals, fowl at large
   
90.049   Manure
Beekeeping
   
90.060   Definitions
   
90.061   Purpose
   
90.062   Colony location
   
90.063   Colony density
   
90.064   Required conditions
   
90.065   Registration
   
90.066   Inspections
   
90.067   Appeal and hearing procedure
Trapping
   
90.080   Purpose
   
90.081   Definitions
   
90.082   Violations
   
90.083   Exceptions
 
   
90.999   Penalty
DOGS AND OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person contracted with by the City Council,
designated as such by it, to perform the duties prescribed by this subchapter
as an independent contractor.
   AT LARGE. When a dog it is off the property of the person owning, harboring,
or keeping a dog and it is not under restraint.
   CITATION. A notice or complaint issue by the Animal Control Officer to the
owner of any animal apprising the owner of one or more violations of this
subchapter.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL/BOARDING. A facility or service where dogs, cats and/or
other small household pets as permitted by city code are kept or maintained
(day or overnight), for the care, training, exercising and/or socializing by a
person other than the owner of the animals for a fee. Animal boarding may
include incidental grooming, dog walkers or training services. Animal boarding
does not including facilities that provide breeding of animal, selling of
animals, or facilities whose primary source of revenue is licensed veterinarian
services.
   DOG KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, boat, or vehicle wherein or
whereupon dogs are kept, congregated, or confined, the dogs having been
obtained from municipalities, dog pounds, dog auction, or by advertising for
unwanted dogs, or dogs abandoned or stolen.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or acting as custodian of a
dog or other domesticated animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, shelter, or land whereon dogs or other
animals are kept or confined.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL OR ANIMALS. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   If dog or dogs is/are repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Is/are vicious animal(s);
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odor;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary conditions of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number of types of animals maintained are offensive or
dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare;
      (7)   Excessively makes disturbing noises;
      (8)   Molests passer(s)by or passing vehicles; or
      (9)   Attacks other domestic animals.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. On the premises of the person harboring or keeping the dog;
within a private motor vehicle of a person owning, harboring, or keeping the
dog; or controlled by a leash not exceeding six feet in length.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Place for the treatment, hospitalization, surgery,
care, and boarding of animals or birds, which place is owned and operated by a
licensed veterinarian.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL OR ANIMALS. Any animal or animals which constitute a physical
threat to human beings or other animals by virtue of one or more attacks of
such severity as to cause property damage or physical injury, however slight.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 805, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 90.002 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Animal Control
Officer and those officers designated in this subchapter. The Animal Control
Officer and Wright County Sheriff’s office may issue citations for violations
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2)
§ 90.003 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Animal Control Officer shall have the right to enter upon any premises
at all reasonable times, in accordance with §
10.20, for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this subchapter
where there is a reasonable belief that a violation of this subchapter has been
committed.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 90.004 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No dog shall be allowed by its owner to run at large, and every owner of a
dog shall cause the same to be:
   (A)   Confined to the owner’s property by training, fencing, or leashing,
and females in heat shall be confined in an enclosure and so kept and confined
therein during the entire period and until the dogs shall not attract other
dogs on account thereof;
   (B)   While in any public place such as a school, playground, or a park, to
be on a leash, chain, or cord of not more than six feet in length and in the
custody of a person of sufficient age to adequately control the dog at all
times; and
   (C)   While in all other areas such as on a public street or in an
automobile, to be in the custody of a person of sufficient age to adequately
control the dog at all times and to have and keep the dog under control.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or allow to be kept any place in the city an animal of
a ferocious or vicious character, habit, or disposition, or any animal which is
wild by nature.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.006 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Council may appoint or designate an Animal Control Officer to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to perform the duties in
connection with the enforcement thereof as the City Administrator or the code
of ordinances may direct. The City Administrator may authorize, at the times as
he or she may deem necessary, persons designated under Animal Control Officer
to purchase equipment for the purpose of capturing and conveying to an animal
pound all animals in violation of this code.
   (B)   The designee shall be under the supervision of the Animal Control
Officer and the City Administrator and may be authorized to issue violation
tags and to carry and display appropriate badges or identification.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 90.007 INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with the Animal
Control Officer or designee employed directly or by contract with the city to
capture animals and convey them to the animal pound while the person is engaged
in the occupation. Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All dogs and cats, over the age of six months, kept, harbored,
maintained, or transported within the city shall have current vaccinations
given by a licensed veterinarian for rabies.
   (B)   A copy of certificate of vaccination shall be provided to the Animal
Control Officer or designee.
§ 90.009 IMPOUNDMENT OF RABIES SUSPECTS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat not vaccinated in accordance with §§
90.008 and
90.010 which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion or puncture of the
skin of a person shall be seized and impounded under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian or at the city contract kennel facility for a period of
not less than ten days. If, after a complete examination by a veterinarian the
dog or cat has no clinical sign of rabies, it may be released to the owner upon
the condition that the owner have the animal vaccinated as required by §§
90.008 and
90.010 and licensed as required by §
90.013. In the case of a stray, the animal shall be disposed of in accordance
with applicable laws. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person having
custody or control of any dog or cat not vaccinated in accordance with §§
90.008 and
90.010 and which has bitten any person to refuse to release the dog or cat and
make it immediately available to the Animal Control Officer for the purpose of
quarantine.
   (B)   Any dog or cat vaccinated in accordance §§
90.008 and
90.010 which has bitten any person shall be confined by the owner or other
responsible person in such manner as the Animal Control Officer may direct and
for a period of not less than ten days. The Animal Control Officer or
authorized representative shall conduct a mid-term and terminal examination of
the animal. If no signs of rabies are observed by the Animal Control Officer,
the domestic animal may be released from confinement. It shall be unlawful for
any owner or person in custody or control of any vaccinated dog or cat which
has bitten any person to refuse or fail to quarantine the dog or cat as
required by this division (B). The Animal Control Officer or his or her agent
shall seize any dog or cat not quarantined in accordance with this division
(B).
   (C)   Any other animal which has bitten any person and caused an abrasion or
puncture of the skin of a person shall be seized and impounded under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or at the city contract kennel facility
for a period of not less than ten days. If after a complete examination by a
veterinarian the animal has no clinical signs of rabies, the animal may, with
the approval of the Animal Control Officer, be released to the owner. In the
case of an unclaimed animal, it shall be disposed of in accordance with
applicable laws. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in custody or
control of any animal which has bitten any person to refuse to release the
animal and make it immediately available to the Animal Control Officer for the
purpose of quarantine.
   (D)   Any rabies suspect impounded or confined under this section which is
found to be sick or diseased shall be reported immediately in writing to the
Animal Control Officer by the attending veterinarian or operator of the
quarantine facility. The Animal Control Officer shall then take possession of
the animal for the purposes of determining if it is suffering from rabies.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-11) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS WITH HISTORY OF BITING.
   Every fierce, dangerous, or vicious animal, including dogs, that has a
history of biting a human or any domestic animal, shall be confined by the
owner within a building or secure, covered enclosure. The animal shall not be
taken out of the building or secure, covered enclosure unless muzzled and on a
leash.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-12) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any dog or other animal within this city.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-13) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.012 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor, or keep a dog over six months of age
within the city unless a current license for the dog has been obtained. The
license shall be issued for a two-year period and shall expire on December 31
of the last year of the license issued. A late payment charge, in the amount
set by the City Council from time to time, shall be assessed for failure to
apply for a renewal license by March 1 of the year of expiration of the current
license. The City Administrator may pro-rate the amount of the license fee of
one who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog over six months of age for less than a
full two-year period.
   (B)   The license fee for the keeping of a dog over six months of age may be
waived on application by a person who shall certify that he or she is over the
age of 65 years and has an annual income not in excess of $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-14) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.013 DOG LICENSE FEE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be required of each person owning, keeping, or harboring a
dog to pay a license fee to the City Administrator or Animal Control Officer as
imposed by this section, except as provided in §
90.011 herein. The license fee for any dog shall be computed at the rate duly
set by the City Council. Each application for the license shall include a
statement, signed by the person applying for the license, which certifies that
the dog has been inoculated for rabies not more than 24 months preceding the
date of application. Receipt of license which includes the color, breed, age,
sex, and weight of the dog shall be provided by the owner for inspection upon
the request of the Animal Control Officer or Wright County Sheriff.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to service dogs or dogs
used for police activity.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-15)
§ 90.014 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF DOG LICENSE RECEIPTS, TAGS OF INOCULATION
CERTIFICATES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog a license receipt,
license tag, or a rabies inoculation certificate issued to another person or
dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-16) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.015 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for kennels licensed under this section the
following limits on animals will apply. For the purposes of this section, the
term HOUSEHOLD refers to a single-family residence or single unit of a town
home, condominium, apartment, or comparable structure which is rented, leased,
or used as a single unit. This section shall not be construed to limit the
ability of apartment managers, landlords, town home associations, or other
representative of property owners to impose greater restrictions.
   (B)   Dogs. No household shall keep, maintain, or otherwise house more than
a total of three dogs over the age of six months within any household in the
city.
   (C)   Cats. No household shall keep, maintain, or otherwise house more than
a total of four cats over the age of six months within any household in the
city.
   (D)   Congregate limit. No household shall keep, maintain, or otherwise
house more than five domestic animals - combination of dogs and cats unless
authorized by a residential or commercial kennel license.
§ 90.016 DOG TAGS.
   The City Administrator or designee shall procure a sufficient number of
metallic tags for delivery of one such tag to the person paying the license
fee. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the dog for which the tag
was obtained to permanently attach the tag to the collar of the dog in a manner
that the tag may be readily seen. The tag is not transferrable to any other dog
or to a new owner of the dog. If a tag is lost or stolen, the owner may obtain
a new tag by surrendering the license receipt for the first tag and by paying
an additional fee as duly set by the City Council from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-17)
§ 90.017 IMPOUNDING DOGS.
   The Animal Control Officer shall seize and impound any dogs found in the
city without the tag provided for by this subchapter or dogs running at large.
To enforce this subchapter, the Animal Control Officer may enter upon any
private premises in pursuit of a dog running at large, in accordance with §
10.20. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to interfere with the
Animal Control Officer engaged in taking a dog hereunder for impounding or to
refuse to surrender a dog to the Animal Control Officer for confinement as
required.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-18) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018 IMPOUNDING STRAY DOGS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer may seize or impound any dog found astray
on public property or claimed to be astray by the owner of the premises upon
which the animal may be found, provided that the owner of the premises demands
the seizure or impoundment and agrees in writing to indemnify and hold harmless
the city from any claim for damages by the owner of the dog.
   (B)   Disposition of the impounded stray shall thereafter be pursuant to the
provisions as found in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-19)
§ 90.019 DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN DISEASED OR DANGEROUS DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any dog or other animal displaying symptoms of being rabid may be
seized at any place or time and shall be confined in the city dog pound or
other appropriate place designated for the purpose by the City Council from
time to time at the expense of the owner until found to be free from rabies.
   (B)   If any dog or other animal appears to be diseased, vicious, dangerous,
rabid, or has been exposed to rabies, and the dog or other animal cannot be
taken up and impounded without serious risk, the dog or other animal my be
killed if reasonably necessary for the safety of any person or persons.
   (C)   When any dog or other animal has bitten any person wherein the skin
has been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, a report of the
incident shall be made to the Wright County Sheriff’s office and Animal Control
Officer by the owner or custodian of the biting dog or animal or the person
bitten, or his or her parent or guardian, within 24 hours of the bite.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-20)
§ 90.020 REDEMPTION OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The city, upon the impounding of any dog or other animal, may
condition redemption of the dog from impounding upon payment of the required
impounding fee as duly set by the City Council from time to time, plus the cost
of boarding for each day of said dog or other animal that has been confined in
the pound, together with the payment for a current license for the dog if no
current license has been issued.
   (B)   If at the end of six days after the impounding the dog or other animal
has not been redeemed, it may be sold at private sale, or the keeper of the
pound may dispose of the dog or other animal in a humane manner or pursuant to
the terms of M.S. § 346.37, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-21)
§ 90.021 POSSESSION OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep, own, harbor, or otherwise possess within the city an
animal which is a public nuisance animal or vicious animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-22) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.022 DOGS DISTURBING THE PEACE; ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have in possession, or
harbor any canine which howls, yelps, or barks to the reasonable annoyance of
another person or persons. Any person violating this section who, upon first
requested by an Animal Control Officer or any duly authorized assistant to stop
or prevent the annoyance and refuses to comply with the request, will be issued
a citation and, if the officer deems it necessary to stop the annoyance, may
have the canine taken to the city animal pound. Any canine placed in the pound
may be reclaimed by the owner upon payment of the fee prescribed. If not
reclaimed, it may be disposed of in the proper manner.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-23) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.023 CLEANING UP LITTER.
   (A)    The owner of any animal, or any person having the custody or control
of any animal, shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces of the animal and
disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner. More than six piles of feces in
the yard may result in a violation tag being issued.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal
to cause or permit the animal to be on property, public or private, not owned
or possessed by the person without having in his or her immediate possession a
device for the removal of feces and depository for the transmission of
excrement to a proper receptacle located on the property owned or possessed by
the person.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person in control of, causing, or permitting
any animal to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by
the person, to fail to remove feces left by the animal to a proper receptacle
located on property owned or possessed by the person. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to service dogs or dogs used for police activity.
   (D)   Any Animal Control Officer or any duly authorized officer or agent
authorized by the City Administrator may issue citations.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-24) (Ord. 789, passed 10-10-2022)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.024 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference of state law and county ordinance. The
provisions of M.S. Ch. 347 (§§ 347.50 through 347.65), as it may be amended
from time to time, and county Ord. 10-01, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference as fully as if set out herein, and shall
be administered and enforced by the city’s Animal Control Officer and Wright
County Sheriff’s office and designated pursuant to that law and ordinance.
   (B)   Conflict of laws. When any provisions of this subchapter, county
ordinance, or state laws applicable to dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs
are in conflict, the provisions that impose the greater restrictions or
protections shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-25) (Ord. 511, passed 4-12-2010)
§ 90.025 PERMITS FOR COMMERCIAL DOG KENNELS; PERMITS FOR KEEPING MORE THAN
THREE DOGS OVER THE AGE OF SIX MONTHS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL KENNEL/BOARDING. A facility or service where dogs, cats and/or
other small household pets as permitted by city code are kept or maintained
(day or overnight), for the care, training, exercising and/or socializing by a
person other than the owner of the animals for a fee. Animal boarding may
include incidental grooming, dog walkers or training services. Animal boarding
does not include facilities that provide breeding of animals, selling of
animals, or facilities whose primary source of revenue is licensed veterinarian
services.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   No person shall operate a kennel in the city without first
obtaining a license. Application for such license shall be made to the office
of the City Clerk and shall be accompanied by the license fee. Such a license
shall be issued by the office of the City Clerk upon a showing of compliance
with all laws and ordinances.
      (2)   Term and renewal; fee. Kennel/boarding licenses shall expire on
December 31 of the year issued. Licenses must be renewed annually. The kennel/
boarding license fees shall be as established by ordinance and paid at the time
of application.
      (3)   Maintenance of premises; inspections; revocation of permit.
Commercial kennels shall be kept in a clean and healthful condition at all
times and shall be open for inspection by the Animal Control Officer at any
reasonable time. A commercial kennel license may be revoked by the Council by
reason of violation of this chapter or any health or nuisance order, law, or
regulation.
   (C)   Applications. The application shall be made to the City Zoning
Administrator and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The location of the premises of the kennel along with the home and
work telephone numbers of the licensee and one other person who could be
contacted in the absence of the licensee;
      (2)   The maximum number and species of adult dogs to be kept on the
premises. The term ADULT as used herein shall include any animal over six
months of age;
      (3)   A site plan showing the location, size, and type of all structures
for housing, fencing, and runs for dogs.;
      (4)   The method to be used to keep the premises in a sanitary condition;
      (5)   The method used to keep the animals quiet; and
      (6)   An agreement by the applicant that the premises may be inspected by
the Animal Control Officer at all reasonable times. An inspection of the
premises prior to licensing and during the licensing period shall be required.
   (D)   Issuance and conditions. The City Clerk shall refer the application to
the Animal Control Officer for review and recommendation. The issuance of a
license shall take into consideration the following: adequacy of housing and
runs for the animals; the methods to be used for sanitation and to maintain
quiet; the quality and height of the fencing; and, with particularity, any
violations during the previous license period, if applicable. The Council may
impose such conditions as it shall deem necessary and appropriate to carry out
the intent of this subchapter.
   (E)   Regulations.
      (1)   Owners shall adhere to all regulations for commercial kennel/
boarding as noted in §
153.091, in addition to those below.
      (2)   All areas shall be adequately and properly ventilated and have
ample light and heat, either natural or artificial.
      (3)   Every kennel or shelter shall be suitably enclosed or fenced in
such a manner as to prevent the running at large or escape of the animals
confined therein. No dogs may be tethered.
      (4)   Doors, windows, and other openings shall be screened.
      (5)   The premises shall be provided with adequate, safe, and approved
sewer, water, and plumbing facilities.
      (6)   Disposal facilities shall be provided to minimize vermin,
infestation, odors, and disease hazards.
      (7)   Adequate storage and refrigeration shall be provided to protect
food supplies against contamination and deterioration.
      (8)   No animal registered as dangerous with the Animal Control Officer
may be kept on premises at any time.
   (F)   Operation and conditions. All kennels and shelters shall be maintained
in a clean, healthful, sanitary, and safe condition so as not to create a
health hazard or public nuisance. Kennels shall be operated in a humane manner.
   (G)   Revocation. If a license fails to comply with the statements made in
the application or with any reasonable conditions imposed by the City Council,
or violates any other provision of this subchapter, the licensee shall be
notified by mail and given ten days to remedy any defects or defaults. If the
condition be not remedied in the ten days, the Council may revoke the license.
   (H)   Tags. Licensees shall affix an identification tag to all dogs owned by
or under the control of the licensee. The identification tags shall at a
minimum contain the name, address, and telephone number of the licensee.
   (I)   Rabies vaccination. A licensee shall cause every dog in the kennel to
be vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian with anti-rabies vaccine. Puppies
shall be so vaccinated at or before the age of 16 weeks and again at the age of
one year. Adult animals shall be so vaccinated at least once in every 24-month
period or as often as needed under the type of vaccine used to ensure immunity.
   (J)   License fees. The license is non-transferable. The fee for kennel
license shall be at a rate as set by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-26) (Ord. 169, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 277, passed 3-25-1996;
Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 494, passed 1-26-2009; Ord. 805, passed 8-14-
2023)
ANIMALS; FOWL
§ 90.040 ANIMALS KEPT WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   No members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family
(cows, bulls), sheep, poultry, or fowl (chickens, turkeys, ducks) unless
permitted, swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees unless
permitted, and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable shall be
kept within the city limits, except in an outlying district where there are not
more than three residences, other than that occupied by the owner or occupant
of the premises upon which the animals are kept, within a distance of 500 feet
of the structure housing or enclosing the animal, unless a special written
permit therefor is issued by the Animal Control Officer and the City Clerk
after an inspection of the premises and a finding of fact to the effect that no
nuisance shall be created thereby. The special permit shall be issued for the
keeping of any such animals on any lot only in the following two cases:
      (1)   Where the animals were being lawfully kept on the lot prior to
enactment hereof; and
      (2)   Where the animals were being lawfully kept on the lot after the
enactment hereof in an area in which there were not three residences within a
distance of 500 feet of the structure enclosing the animals, and subsequently
other residences were built bringing the structure housing the animals within a
restricted district. The permit shall be for the term of one year and shall not
be renewed without a re-inspection.
   (B)   All animals, other than those specifically allowed and permitted by
this subchapter, shall be prohibited within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041 STABLES.
   (A)   Every stable or other building wherein any animal listed in §
90.040 is kept shall be constructed of such material and in such manner that it
can be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
   (B)   Every stable or other building occupied by authority of a special
permit shall, if located within 200 feet of any tenement or apartment house,
hotel, restaurant, boarding house, retail food store, building used for school,
religious, or hospital purposes, or residence other than that occupied by the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which the creatures are kept, be
provided with a water-tight and fly-tight receptacle for manure of such
dimension as to contain all accumulations of manure, which receptacle shall be
emptied sufficiently often and in a manner as to prevent its becoming a
nuisance. The receptacle shall be kept securely covered at all times except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be
allowed to accumulate except in the receptacle.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer shall, if he or she deems the measures
necessary in order to avoid a nuisance, require that any building be screened
tightly against flies and/or that it be provided with running water, drain
sewer connection, flooring impervious to water, and that other measures be
taken as may be necessary to ensure proper protection to public health and
safety as conditions precedent to the issuance of any special permit.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2)
§ 90.042 ANIMALS, FOWL WITHIN CITY LIMITS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall anywhere in the city keep, harbor, or maintain care,
custody, or control over any small animal such as a rabbit or any fowl, such as
a chicken, turkey, or duck, or any pigeon, without obtaining a permit therefor
issued by the Animal Control Officer and the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer and the City Clerk may grant any permit
pursuant to this section after the applicant has sought the written consent of
the property owners adjoining the applicant’s real estate. The written consent
shall be required on the first and initial application and as often thereafter
as the Animal Control Officer deems necessary.
   (C)   Roosters are prohibited within the city.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued for more than six hen fowl.
   (E)   No permit shall be granted to keep any animal, fowl, or pigeon within
a dwelling unit or part thereof, nor on any real estate which contains three or
more dwelling units.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to dogs or cats or to veterinarians or
licensed pet shops or licensed kennels.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 615, passed 4-27-2015) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit under this chapter shall make written
application therefor to the City Clerk upon a form prepared by the City Clerk,
which application shall describe the real estate upon which it is desired to
keep the animals and shall require the giving of such information by the
applicant as the city may request. The application shall contain a statement by
the applicant that he or she will at all times keep the animals in accordance
with all conditions prescribed by the Animal Control Officer, and failure to
obey the conditions shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be cause for
cancellation of the permit by the Animal Control Officer and the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4)
§ 90.044 DURATION OF PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Each permit issued hereunder shall expire one year after the issuance
unless revoked.
   (B)   The annual fee for a permit shall be as stated in the fee schedule,
which shall be paid at the time the application is submitted.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5)
§ 90.045 CONDITIONS FOR KEEPING ANIMALS; REVOCATION.
   The Animal Control Officer may prescribe general conditions for the keeping
of animals or fowl and specific conditions as to a particular animal or fowl or
particular premises as in his or her judgment is necessary to safeguard public
health and the general welfare. The Animal Control Officer may revoke any
permit granted pursuant to this chapter if any condition is violated or if any
pet becomes a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-6)
§ 90.046 REFUSAL TO GRANT PERMIT.
   The Animal Control Officer and City Clerk may refuse a permit to keep or
maintain animals or fowl hereunder for failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and shall refuse a permit if in his or her judgment the animals or
fowl should not be kept upon the premises described in the application for
permit. If any permit be refused, the fee paid with the application shall be
retained by the city to pay its expenses in the investigation and consideration
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-7)
§ 90.047 PENS; YARDS.
   All structures, pens, coops, or yards wherein animals or fowl are kept or
permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, devoid
of all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors. The interior
walls, ceilings, floors, partitions, and appurtenances of all the structures
shall be whitewashed or painted as the Animal Control Officer shall direct. The
Animal Control Officer, upon the complaint of any individual, shall inspect any
structure or premises and issue any order as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-8)
§ 90.048 ANIMALS, FOWL AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any horses, mules, donkeys, ponies, cattle, sheep,
goats, swine, rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks, or turkeys of which he or she is
the owner, caretaker, or custodian to be at large within the city. Any creature
shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it shall be off the premises owned or
rented by its owner and unaccompanied by the owner or an agent or employee of
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-9) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.049 MANURE.
   No manure shall be dumped or left on any street, alley, sidewalk, or on any
open area or lot in any inhabited portion of the city. Manure shall not be used
to grade in whole or in part any sidewalk, street, open area, or lot in the
section unless the manure is completely covered with at least four inches of
dirt.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-10) (Ord. 170, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 557, passed 4-9-2012)
Penalty, see §
90.999
BEEKEEPING
§ 90.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APIARY. The assembly of one or more colonies of bees on a single lot.
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of honey
bees or a person who owns or controls a lot on which a colony is located
whether or not the person is intentionally keeping honey bees.
   BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as
hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards and extractors.
   COLONY. An aggregate of honey bees consisting principally of workers, but
having, when perfect, one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
   FLYWAY BARRIER. A barrier that raises the flight path of bees as they come
and go from a hive.
   HIVE. The receptacle inhabited by a colony.
   HONEY BEE. All life stages of the common domestic HONEY BEE. This definition
does not include wasps, hornets, African subspecies, or Africanized hybrids.
   NUCLEUS COLONY. A small quantity of honey bees with a queen housed in a
smaller than usual hive box designed for a particular purpose, and containing
no supers.
   SUPER. A box that holds the frames where bees will store the honey.
   SWARMING. The process where a queen bee leaves a colony with a large group
of worker bees in order to form a new honey bee colony.
   UNUSUAL AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR. Any instance in which unusual aggressive
characteristics such as stinging or attacking without provocation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-1) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.061 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Honey bees are an asset to the community and important in the
pollination of plants and in the production of honey and other products.
   (B)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter it to permit and establish
requirements for the keeping of honey bee colonies, hives, and equipment within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-2) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.062 COLONY LOCATION.
   (A)   Hives cannot be located in the front yard and must be located a
minimum of ten feet from the rear or side property lines and 25 feet from
public rights-of-way unless further restricted elsewhere in this code. A corner
lot shall be considered to have two front yards. Hive openings shall face in
toward subject property’s backyard.
   (B)   Honey bee colonies shall be kept in removable frames, which shall be
kept in sound and usable condition.
   (C)   For each colony permitted to be maintained under this section, there
may also be maintained upon the same apiary lot, one nucleus colony in a hive
structure not to exceed one standard nine and five- eighths-inch depth, ten-
frame hive body with no supers.
   (D)   A flyway barrier at least six feet in height shall shield any part of
a property line that is within 30 feet of a ground hive. The flyway barrier
shall consist of a wall, fence, dense vegetation, or a combination thereof, and
it shall be positioned to transect both legs of a triangle extending from an
apex at the hive to each end point of the part of the property line to be
shielded.
   (E)   Rooftop apiaries are allowed but shall not be located closer than 15
feet from a principal building on an abutting lot.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-3) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.063 COLONY DENSITY.
   (A)   Every lot or parcel of land in the city shall be limited to the
following number of colonies based on the size of the apiary lot:
      (1)   One-half acre or smaller is allowed two colonies;
      (2)   More than one-half acres to three-quarters of an acre is allowed
four colonies;
      (3)   More than three-quarters of an acre to one acre is allowed six
colonies;
      (4)   More than one acre to five acres is allowed eight colonies; and
      (5)   More than five acres, there is no restriction on the number of
colonies and no registration is required.
   (B)   If any beekeeper removes honey bees from locations where they are not
desired, that person shall not be considered in violation if the person
temporarily houses the honey bees on the apiary site of a beekeeper registered
under this section for no more than 30 days and remains at all times in
compliance with the other provisions in this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-4) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.064 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Honey bee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames, which
shall be kept in sound and useable condition.
   (B)   A constant supply of water shall be provided for all hives, except
during the dormant period.
   (C)   Materials from a hive or colony which might encourage the presence of
honey bees, such as wax comb, shall be promptly disposed of in a sealed
container or placed within a building or other bee-proof enclosure.
   (D)   Beekeeping equipment shall be maintained in good condition. Unused
beekeeping equipment must be protected to prevent occupancy by swarming honey
bees.
   (E)   Hives shall be continuously managed to provide adequate living space
for their resident honey bees in order to prevent swarming.
   (F)   In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusual aggressive
behavior, it shall be the duty of the beekeeper to promptly implement
appropriate actions to address the behavior.
   (G)   Honey may not be sold from any residential property unless a permit
has been obtained and required conditions met in accordance with the city’s
zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-5) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.065 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Residents seeking approval to keep and raise honey bees shall submit
an application, application fee, and site plan. Registration is not required
for sites over five acres in size.
   (B)   If the beekeeper relocates a hive or colony to a new apiary site, the
beekeeper shall apply for an updated registration, prior to the relocation, on
the form provided by the city.
   (C)   The beekeeping registration shall be valid January 1 through December
31 of each calendar year following initial issuance and must be renewed by the
registrant prior to expiration each year by submitting a renewal form to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   The applicant for the license must notify all residents of the
property if the applicant is not the owner or operator and the owner or
operator must be an additional signatory on the license application.
Notification is not required for renewal of the license.
   (E)   (1)   Upon receipt of application, the city will send written notice
to property owners living within 200 feet of applicant.
      (2)   Any objections to the registration must be made in writing and
received within ten days.
      (3)   If any written objection is received, the application must be
referred to the City Administrator.
      (4)   The application must be denied if the city receives a written
objection from an adjacent property owner that includes medical documentation
by a licensed physician of an allergy to honey bee venom.
   (F)   Applicants for a beekeeping license shall provide proof of applicable
training or provide a waiver indicating how required experience has been
obtained.
   (G)   The fees for the registration will be determined by the City Council
in the city’s fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-6) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Fees, see
Chapter 36
§ 90.066 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon initial registration, annual renewal, or any updated
registration, each beekeeper must allow for an inspection by the Animal Control
Officer of the site.
   (B)   Upon prior notice to the owner of the apiary site, city staff or
Animal Control Officer shall have the right to inspect any apiary, in
accordance with §
10.20.
   (C)   In the case of a complaint regarding the apiary, the apiary site may
be inspected without prior notice.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer or designated city staff may refuse to
grant or revoke a license if the honey bees become a nuisance as determined by
the city or the Animal Control Officer.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-7) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 90.067 APPEAL AND HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Registrations issued under this section may be denied, revoked, or
non-renewed due to any of the following:
      (1)   The keeping of honey bees in a manner which constitutes a nuisance
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public as determined by the
Animal Control Officer;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or a false statement contained in the
registration application or during the course of the registered activity; and/
or
      (3)   Any violation of the applicable provisions in this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of approval, denial, revocation, or non-renewal must be
made in writing to the registrant and to any person opposing the application
for initial registration specifying the reason(s) for the action.
      (2)   The registrant or any person opposing the application may request a
hearing with the City Council within 14 days of the date of the notification
letter.
(Prior Code, § 6-8-8) (Ord. 634, passed 4-11-2016)
TRAPPING
§ 90.080 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to preclude the potential harm that may
be inflicted upon people, particularly children, and to prevent the maiming,
unselective catching, and destruction of wild animals and birds and domestic
animals that come in contact with traps.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-1)
§ 90.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAP. Any mechanical device or snare which seeks to hold, capture, or kill
an animal.
   TRAPPING. The setting or laying or otherwise using of a trap in the platted
residential areas and parks of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-2)
§ 90.082 VIOLATIONS.
   Trapping in all areas within the city, including parks areas, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-3) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.083 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to the use of any trap
specifically designed to kill rats, mice, gophers, or moles.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to the use of cage type
live traps employed for the control of nuisance animals as long as the traps
are tended each 12 hours.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to representatives of
the city, county, or state who may, in the course of their duties, be required
to use a trap to trap, snare, kill, or otherwise restrain the free movement of
any wildlife, animal, or bird for humane or authorized purposes.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to teachers trapping
for educational programs or scientists for the purpose of studying animals,
wildlife, or birds which will be returned to their natural environment
uninjured.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-5) (Ord. 204, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
90.017 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.024, a county ordinance, or state law applicable to dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-25)
   (D)   Any person who maintains a kennel without first obtaining a license
therefor in violation of §
90.025 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-26)
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.080 through
90.083 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 7-8-4)
(Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001; Ord. 511, passed 4-12-2010)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
91.01   General policy
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Nuisances unlawful
   
91.04   Public nuisance
   
91.05   Exception
   
91.06   Abatement
Disposal of Unclaimed Property
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Disposal of property other than motor vehicles
   
91.22   Disposal of motor vehicles
   
91.23   Deposit of net proceeds
Air Quality
   
91.35   Adoption of standards and regulations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is determined that the uses, structures, activities, and factors
described with this subchapter, if allowed to exist, will tend to be harmful to
the public welfare, safety, and morals. No person shall maintain or permit to
be maintained any public nuisance identified within this subchapter on property
in the city that is owned, leased, rented, occupied, or otherwise in the
control of the person.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Where
terms are not defined this subchapter but are defined in the International
Property Maintenance Code (IPMC) or elsewhere in the city code, the terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   PREMISES. Include any yard, lot, parcel, sidewalk, boulevard, street,
highway, alley, park, playground, restaurant, café, church, school, any car or
other motor vehicle, parking lot, drive-in, building used for business,
commercial, or industrial purposes, washroom or lavatory, apartment hallway, or
other location whether public or private in the city.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Whoever by act or failure to act does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a PUBLIC NUISANCE:
      (1)   Annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or repose
of the public;
      (2)   Offend public decency;
      (3)   Unlawfully interfere with, obstruct, or tend to obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, a lake, navigable river, bay, stream, basin, public
park, square, street, alley, or highway; and
      (4)   In any way render a considerable number of persons insecure in life
or in use of property.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 91.03 NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to
maintain any public nuisance defined in this subchapter and it shall further be
unlawful to do any act that is defined as a public nuisance in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Misdemeanors. The following nuisances are declared to be misdemeanors:
      (1)   Unwholesome substance that is brought in, deposited, left, dumped,
or allowed to accumulate within the city;
      (2)   Junk vehicles: a JUNK VEHICLE is a vehicle without a valid current
license, or without a valid current registration (if applicable), or which is
apparently inoperable located outside an enclosed building in a residential
area including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles,
snowmobiles, trailers, all-terrain vehicles, and watercraft;
      (3)   Pest harborage:
         (a)   All exterior property shall be free from rodent harborage and
infestation;
         (b)   Boxes, lumber, scrap metal, and similar materials shall not be
allowed to accumulate outside a structure in a manner that attracts an
infestation of pests; and
         (c)   Materials permitted and approved for exterior storage shall be
neatly stacked.
      (4)   Garbage and rubbish:
         (a)   All household garbage, offal, dead animals, animal and human
waste, and waste materials;
         (b)   Accumulations of litter, glass, scrap materials (such as wood,
metal, paper, and plastics), junk, combustible materials, stagnant water,
plastic bags, or trash; and
         (c)   Accumulations of clothing and any other items not designed for
outdoor storage.
      (5)   Non-trash items;
         (a)   Accumulations of wood pallets;
         (b)   Accumulations of vehicle parts or tires;
         (c)   All construction and building materials unless the materials are
being used at the time in the construction of a building, in which case the
construction must be permitted and on a continuous uninterrupted basis;
         (d)   All appliance or appliance parts;
         (e)   All indoor or upholstered furniture of a type of material which
is deteriorated by exposure to outdoor elements; and
         (f)   All other non-trash items which:
            1.   Are of a type or quantity inconsistent with the normal and
usual use;
            2.   Are of a type or quantity inconsistent with then intended use
of the property; or
            3.   Are likely to obstruct or impede the necessary passage of fire
or other emergency personnel.
      (6)   Fertilizer and burial of waste:
         (a)   No person shall leave, deposit, or cause to be placed on any
private ground any garbage; and
         (b)   Sewage, waste, debris, carcass, or other substance or matter
which is offensive or unhealthy by decomposition unless the same be buried at
least three feet under the surface of the ground; provided, that the use of
manure and phosphorous fee fertilizer in the normal course for agriculture or
horticulture is permitted.
      (7)   Engaging within the city in any trade or employment which is
hurtful to the inhabitants or dangerous to the public health, or injurious to
neighboring property, or from which obnoxious odors arise, or undue noise
emanates, and specifically no person shall operate a dump or garbage dumping
area or rendering plant except the specific activity be authorized by the
issuance of a permit as hereinafter provided;
      (8)   Causing or permitting garbage, tin cans, or refuse to be thrown or
scattered upon any street, alley, highway, parkway, boulevard, or real estate;
      (9)   Causing or permitting detached structures not requiring a building
permit that do not conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   All such detached structures shall be constructed of uniform
building grade material;
         (b)   All sides, roof, and floor shall be securely fastened to the
interior frame of the detached structure;
         (c)   All surfaces of the detached structures shall be stained,
sealed, or painted;
         (d)   Exterior metal surfaces shall be treated with materials designed
to resist corrosion;
         (e)   Structures that do not have slab floors shall have a rodent
barrier that extends eight inches under the surface of the ground along the
perimeter of the outside wall of the structure;
         (f)   All the detached structures shall be permanently anchored to the
ground;
         (g)   Storage sheds erected after the adoption of the zoning ordinance
shall meet district setback requirements; and
         (h)   Detached structures shall be erected in the side or rear yard of
any residence.
      (10)   Consumption of beer, wine, or liquor in public except as provided
by law;
      (11)   Strewing, scattering, littering, throwing, or disposing of any
garbage or refuse onto any premises except into receptacles provided for such
purposes;
      (12)   Marking with ink, paint, chalk, or other substance, or posting
handbills on, or in any other manner defacing or injuring any public or private
building or place within the city, or marking, defacing, or injuring fences,
trees, lawns, or fixtures appurtenant to or located on the site of the
buildings, or posting handbills on the fences, trees, or fixtures, or place a
sign anywhere on any site except as permitted by the owner thereof;
      (13)   Lingering about the doorway of any building, or sitting or
lingering upon the steps, window sills, railing, fence, or parking area
adjacent to any building in a manner as to obstruct or partially obstruct
ingress to or egress from the building or in a manner to annoy the owner or
occupant;
      (14)   Obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic or otherwise causing
an obstruction or interference with premises or rendering any premise dangerous
for passage except in cases of emergency;
      (15)   Failing or refusing to vacate or leave any premises after being
requested or ordered, either orally, in writing, or by posted sign, to do so by
the owner, agent, manager, or person in charge thereof, or by any law
enforcement agent or official, and also the return at any time thereafter to
any such premises after having been so requested or ordered to vacate or leave
the premises;
      (16)   Maintaining nuisance vegetation as follows:
         (a)   In any area the existence of any noxious or poisonous vegetation
such as poison ragweed or other poisonous plants, or any weed, grass, brush, or
plants which are a fire hazard or otherwise detrimental to the health or
appearance of the neighborhood;
         (b)   In any area within 100 feet of the nearest building, the
existence of weeds or grass in excess of eight inches in height or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush; or
         (c)   In any area on an occupied lot, the existence of weeds or grass
in excess of eight inches in height or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass,
or brush.
      (17)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to
the person or property of anyone; and
      (18)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities.
   (B)   Petty misdemeanors. The following nuisances are declared to be petty
misdemeanors:
      (1)   Racing the motor of any motor vehicle so as to cause unnecessary
and unreasonable noise;
      (2)   Causing, producing, or creating any unnecessary and unreasonable
notice by shouting, mechanical means, the blowing of motor vehicle horns, or
any similar noise;
      (3)   Improper or annoying use of spot lights onto persons or premises;
      (4)   Using profane, abusive, indecent, or threatening language in
public; and
      (5)   Occupying a standing motor vehicle in an area generally reserved
for parking or occupies a standing motor vehicle while the vehicle is double
parked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 602, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 91.05 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to the hauling or
accumulation or spreading of manure for the purposes of agriculture provided
the public health, safety, and welfare is not adversely affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 91.06 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever the officer who is charged with enforcement
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in
the city, the officer shall notify the owner and occupant of the premises of
the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated and abated. The owner of the
property will be determined as shown by the records of the office of the County
Recorder. The notice shall be served in person or by regular mail. If the
premises is not occupied and the owner is unknown, the notice may be served by
posting it on the premises. The notice shall specify the steps to be taken to
abate the nuisance and the time, not exceeding five business days for any grass
or weed nuisance and not exceeding 20 days for all other nuisances, to either
correct the violation or appeal to the City Council for a determination that
the complained of activity does not violate the subchapter.
   (B)   Accelerated abatement. For second or successive violations concerning
grass, weeds, and other vegetation in a calendar year, the city will, without
additional notice, correct the conditions creating the violations and assess
the cost therefor against the property.
   (C)   Recovery of cost. The owner of the premise on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city shall be personally liable for the city’s cost of
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the city shall prepare a bill for the cost
and mail it to the owner. Thereupon, the amount shall be immediately due and
payable to the city.
   (D)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the
traveled portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City
Clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance,
list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other
charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against
the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following
year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the Council may determine
in each case.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 602, passed 10-13-2014)
DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 91.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   NET PROCEEDS. The sale price of any item of property or of a motor vehicle,
less any costs of handling, storage, and sale.
   PROPERTY. All forms of tangible personal property.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 91.21 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY OTHER THAN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Property lawfully coming into the possession of the city and its duly
designated agent in the course of its municipal operation and remaining
unclaimed by the owner thereof for at least three months thereafter may be sold
by the city to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following one week
published notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-2)
§ 91.22 DISPOSAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Motor vehicles impounded by the city and its duly designated agents or
otherwise lawfully coming into its possession during the course of its
municipal operations and remaining unclaimed by the owner thereof may be sold
by the city to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following one week
published notice thereof.
   (B)   Prior to the disposal of any motor vehicle, the city shall mail to the
registered owner, if any, as shown by the records of the state’s Registrar of
Motor Vehicles, notice of its possession and intent to dispose of the motor
vehicle.
   (C)   No sale of a motor vehicle shall be conducted until the motor vehicle
has been in possession of the city for a period of not less than 30 days after
the mailing of notice to the registered owner, if any, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-3)
§ 91.23 DEPOSIT OF NET PROCEEDS.
   The net proceeds of the sale of any property or of a motor vehicle, whether
by public auction or sale, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city,
subject to the right of the former owner of the property or of the motor
vehicle to the payment of the net sale proceeds from the General Fund upon
application and satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 6-6-4)
AIR QUALITY
§ 91.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Ambient Air Quality Standards and Air Pollution Control
Regulations, as published by the state’s Pollution Control Agency and in effect
this date, be and the same hereby are adopted by reference by the city.
   (B)   Three copies of the regulations shall be marked as official copies and
filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall have the penalties provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue.
      (3)   Each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) (Ord. 496, passed 3-23-2009)
CHAPTER 92: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Prohibiting Fertilizers with Phosphorus
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Regulations
   
92.04   Exceptions
   
92.05   Impervious surfaces and drainage ways
Sidewalk Repair, Maintenance, and Special Assessments
   
92.20   Maintenance by owner
   
92.21   Inspection
   
92.22   Notice of hearing
   
92.23   Notice to repair
   
92.24   City to make repairs
   
92.25   Assess cost
   
92.26   Hearing on assessment
   
92.27   Assessment roll
   
92.28   Appeal from assessment
   
92.29   Certification to County Auditor
   
92.30   Time of snow removal and ice control
Trees and Shrubs
   
92.45   Purpose
   
92.46   Prohibited trees
   
92.47   Order to treat or remove
   
92.48   Regulations for planting in public places
   
92.49   Requirements applicable to trees in new subdivisions
   
92.50   Shade tree disease and insect control
   
92.51   Abuse or mutilation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PROHIBITING FERTILIZERS WITH PHOSPHORUS
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The city has considered data that indicates that water quality of lakes,
rivers, and streams within the community may be maintained or improved if the
city is able to regulate the amount of lawn fertilizer and other chemicals
entering these bodies of water as a result of stormwater runoff or other
causes. The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth regulations that will
aid the city in managing and protecting its water resources.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-1)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The individual responsible for overseeing the requirements of
the city code. For purposes of this subchapter, the ADMINISTRATOR shall be the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
   FERTILIZER. A substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients
that is used for its plant nutrient content and designed for use or claimed to
have value in promoting plant growth. FERTILIZER does not include animal and
vegetable manures that are not manipulated, marl, lime, limestone, and other
products exempted by rule by the state’s Commissioner of Agriculture.
   PESTICIDE. A substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent,
destroy, repel, or mitigate a pest, and a substance or mixture of substances
intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant, or desiccant.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-2)
§ 92.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Time of application. Neither commercial applicators nor noncommercial
applicators may apply lawn fertilizer when the ground is frozen or when
conditions exist which will promote or create runoff.
   (B)   Sample analysis cost. The cost of analyzing fertilizer samples taken
from commercial applicators shall be paid by the commercial applicators if the
sample analysis indicates that phosphorus content exceeds the levels authorized
herein.
   (C)   Fertilizer content. No person shall apply any lawn fertilizer, liquid
or granular, within the city which contains any amount of phosphorus or other
compound containing phosphorus, such as phosphate, except:
      (1)   The naturally occurring phosphorous in unadulterated natural or
organic fertilizing products such as yard waste compost; or
      (2)   As otherwise provided in §
92.04.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibition against use of fertilizer containing any quantity of
phosphorus set forth under §
92.03 shall not apply to:
      (1)   Newly established turf and lawn areas during first growing season;
or
      (2)   Turf and lawn areas which have been confirmed by soil testing to be
below phosphorus levels established by the University of Minnesota Extension
Services. The lawn fertilizer application shall not contain an amount of
phosphorus in excess of that which is recommended in the soil test evaluation.
   (B)   Phosphorus applied as lawn fertilizer pursuant to the aforementioned
exemptions shall be watered into the soil so that it is immobilized and
protected from loss by runoff.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-4)
§ 92.05 IMPERVIOUS SURFACES AND DRAINAGE WAYS.
   No person shall apply fertilizer to impervious surfaces, areas within
drainage ditches, or waterways.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
SIDEWALK REPAIR, MAINTENANCE, AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 92.20 MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time, the
primary responsibility for keeping and maintaining the public sidewalk of the
city in front of each parcel of land abutting thereon clean and in such state
of repair as not to be dangerous to public travel is hereby imposed upon the
owner of each abutting parcel of land.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 92.21 INSPECTION.
   The Public Works Director shall inspect the public sidewalks within the city
or cause the same to be inspected by some competent person under his or her
supervision and direction at least once in each year and shall, from time to
time, report in writing to the City Council any sidewalks believed by him or
her to be in such disrepair as to be dangerous to the public travel thereon,
giving therein the information as to enable the locating of each alleged
defective sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 92.22 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Upon receipt of the report, the City Council shall, by resolution, set a
date for a public hearing on the report and cause at least two weeks’ written
notice of the hearing to be given by mail, addressed to the owner of each
parcel of land abutting upon the portion of any sidewalk alleged in the report
to be in such disrepair as to be dangerous to public travel thereon, the notice
to be addressed to the owner at the address shown on the last general
assessment roll of city real estate.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 92.23 NOTICE TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the City Council shall find upon the hearing or any adjournment
thereof that the sidewalks embraced within the report, or any of them, are in
such disrepair as to be dangerous to the public travel thereon, it shall direct
the Public Works Director to send or cause to be sent a written notice of the
defect to the owner of each parcel of land abutting upon any defective
sidewalk, directing him or her to cause the sidewalk in front of his or her
parcel of land to be repaired at his or her own cost and expense in the manner
recommended by the Public Works Director within 30 days from the date of the
notice.
   (B)   The notice shall further state that if the sidewalk is not so repaired
by him or her, the city will proceed to make the repairs and assess the cost
thereof against the abutting parcels of land. For good reason shown, the Public
Works Director is authorized to extend the time given to any owner with which
to make the repairs.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 92.24 CITY TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   (A)   If any repair is not made by the owner of the abutting parcel of land
within the time and in the manner specified in the notice to him or her or any
extension thereof granted by the Public Works Director, the city may then
proceed to make the repair under contract or by its employees under the
supervision and direction of the Public Works Director or of some competent
person in his or her office assigned thereto.
   (B)   Careful and adequate records of the cost of each repair shall be
maintained showing the cost in time employed and of materials used in effecting
the repair.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
§ 92.25 ASSESS COST.
   After any repair or any group of repairs to be made by the city has been
completed, the Public Works Director shall certify to the City Council the
total cost thereof, and thereupon the Council shall determine by resolution the
amount of the total cost the city will pay, if any, other than the amount, if
any, which it will pay as a property owner and the amount to be assessed. The
resolution shall then be filed with the City Clerk. The City Clerk, with the
assistance of the Public Works Director or other qualified person selected by
the Council, shall calculate the proper amount to be assessed against each
abutting parcel of land in front of which any of such repairs have been made by
the city on the basis of the cost thereof and shall prepare a proposed
assessment roll and deliver it to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 92.26 HEARING ON ASSESSMENT.
   Upon receipt by the City Council of the proposed assessment roll, it shall,
by resolution, set a date for a public hearing thereon and file the proposed
assessment roll with the City Clerk where it shall be open to public
inspection. Thereupon the City Clerk, under the direction of the Council, shall
cause to be published once in the legal newspaper of the city a notice of the
public hearing giving the date, time, and place thereof, stating the general
nature of the improvement and that written or oral objections to the
assessments will be considered at the hearing. The notice shall be published at
least one week before the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 92.27 ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   At the meeting or any adjournment thereof, the City Council shall
consider the objections made, if any, to the proposed assessments, may amend
the proposed assessment roll in respect to a particular parcel of land but
shall not increase the assessment, and may then adopt by resolution the
proposed assessment roll as made or as amended.
   (B)   Upon the adoption, the assessment roll shall be filed with the City
Clerk, and upon the filing the amount assessed thereby against the respective
parcels of land included therein, together with accrued interest at such rate
per annum as the City Council may from time to time fix by resolution, shall
become a lien thereon and continue until the assessment is fully paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-8)
§ 92.28 APPEAL FROM ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Any person being aggrieved by any assessment may appeal therefrom to
the District Court of the county wherein the property is located by serving
upon the City Clerk, within ten days after the filing of the assessment roll in
the Administrator’s office, a notice of appeal stating the grounds of the
appeal and giving a bond for $250 conditioned that he or she will diligently
prosecute the appeal, pay all costs and disbursements which may be adjudged
against him or her, and abide by the order of the court, and by filing a copy
of the notice with proof of service thereof on the City Clerk with the court
within two days after the service upon the City Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   The appeal shall be placed upon the calendar for the next
general term of the court commencing more than ten days after the filing of the
copy of the notice with the court, and the appeal shall be tried as other
appeals in such cases.
      (2)   Upon an appeal being perfected, the City Clerk shall omit the
parcel in respect of which the appeal is taken from the duplicate assessment
roll to be certified to the County Auditor, as provided in §
92.29, until the appeal is disposed of by the court.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9)
§ 92.29 CERTIFICATION TO COUNTY AUDITOR.
   On or before November 30, the City Clerk shall transmit a certified
duplicate of the assessment roll so adopted to the County Auditor of the county
in which any parcel of land subject to the lien is situated, setting forth the
amount of the assessment, together with interest computed to the first Monday
in January of the succeeding calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10)
§ 92.30 TIME OF SNOW REMOVAL AND ICE CONTROL.
   The owner or occupant of every building or tract of land within the city
fronting upon any street having a sidewalk abutting upon such premises shall
clear the sidewalk of snow within 48 hours following the termination of any
snowfall of two inches or more or control the formation of ice from any cause.
If the snow is not removed or ice is not controlled by the owner or occupant
within the time specified herein, the same shall be removed or controlled under
the direction of the Public Works Director and the city shall be reimbursed for
the expense of the removal by the property owner within 30 days per the current
city fee schedule. If payment is not received by the due date, the costs shall
be levied against the property owner as a special assessment and collected as
in the case of other special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 153, passed 4-13-1987; Ord. 492, passed 1-12-2009;
Ord. 507, passed 1-11-2010)
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 92.45 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect and promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city by regulating the
planting and maintenance of trees in order to protect trees and to prevent and
abate hazardous and nuisance conditions within the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 92.46 PROHIBITED TREES.
   It is lawful to plant only highly disease resistant species within the city
limits with the approval of the City Forester.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 29, passed 5-9-1977; Ord. 495, passed 1-26-2009;
Ord. 661, passed 2-13-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 ORDER TO TREAT OR REMOVE.
   The city may order the trimming, treatment, or removal of trees or plants
upon public or private property when they shall determine that the action is
necessary to the public safety or necessary to prevent the spread of disease or
of insects harmful to trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
§ 92.48 REGULATIONS FOR PLANTING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Approval required. No tree shall be planted or placed on public
property or right-of-way without the approval of the City Forester.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall plant or remove trees or shrubs in public places
without first filling out an application and obtaining a permit from the city.
      (2)   The following provisions apply to the issuance of permits where
required for planting in public places.
         (a)   Application data. The application required herein shall state
the number of trees or plants to be planted or set out, the location, and
specific name of each tree or plant.
         (b)   Standards for issuance. A permit shall be issued if it is found
that the proposed plantings will be in the best interest of the community.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 661, passed 2-13-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.49 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO TREES IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In new subdivisions, on lots with frontage on a single right-of-way,
it is required that two trees be planted per platted lot if no trees are in
existence. For lots with frontage on more than one right-of-way, it is required
that four trees be planted per platted lot if no trees are in existence. Two
trees must be planted in the boulevard adjoining each yard having street
frontage.
   (B)   In subdivision plantings, not less than two or more than three species
of trees shall be planted in any block, and neither less than 20% nor more than
50% of the total trees planted in a block may be of the same species. Only
trees listed in §
92.46 shall be planted.
   (C)   Required trees shall be planted in the boulevard at a location ranging
from four feet to ten feet from the curb. Precise location within this range to
be determined by the city.
   (D)   Required subdivision trees must have a trunk diameter of at least two
inches at one foot above the ground.
   (E)   Required subdivision trees must be protected and supported by tree
guards of approved type.
   (F)   No required subdivision tree shall be planted in soil too poor to
ensure the growth of the tree unless 27 cubic feet (three feet x three feet x
three feet) of soil is removed and replaced with suitable loam.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 267, passed 3-27-1995; Ord. 287, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 92.50 SHADE TREE DISEASE AND INSECT CONTROL.
   (A)   Forester duties. The powers and duties of the City Forester as set
forth in this code are hereby conferred upon the Park Superintendent. It is the
duty of the Forester to coordinate, under the direction and control of the City
Council, all activities of the municipality relating to the control and
prevention of shade tree disease. The City Forester shall recommend to the
Council the details of a program for the control of shade tree disease and
perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by the Council.
   (B)   Program. It is the intention of the City Council to conduct a program
of plant pest control pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 18G13, as it
may be amended from time to time. This program is directed specifically at the
control and elimination of Dutch elm disease fungus, elm bark beetles, oak
wilt, emerald ash borer and other tree diseases; and is undertaken at the
recommendation of the Commissioner of Agriculture and the Council in the
conduct of this program.
   (C)   Nuisance declared. The prevention, control, and abatement of Dutch elm
disease, oak wilt disease, emerald ash borer, and other tree diseases is
necessary for the protection, preservation, and conservation of public and
private lands and the investment and benefit therein, and to protect and
promote the general welfare of the public and this community. Therefore, the
following conditions are hereby found and declared to be a public nuisance
wherever they exist in the city:
      (1)   Any living or dead elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the Dutch elm disease fungus Certatocystits ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus multistriatus (Eichhh) or
Hylugropinus rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed or burned;
      (3)   Any living or dead oak tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with the oak wilt fungus (Ceratocytis fagacearum); and/or
      (4)   Any living or dead fraxinus spp tree or part thereof infected to
any degree with the insect emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennix) or any other
tree species infected with a disease.
   (D)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public
nuisance as defined in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(4) above to remain on any
premises owned or controlled by such person within the city. The nuisances may
be abated in the manner prescribed by this subchapter.
   (E)   Inspection and investigation.
      (1)   The Forester shall inspect all premises and places within the city
as often as practicable to determine whether any condition declared in division
(C) above to be a public nuisance exists thereon.
      (2)   All reported incidents of infestation of Dutch elm fungus, the
presence of elm bark beetles, of infection by the oak wilt fungus or the
presence of emerald ash borer, or other tree infestations shall be promptly
investigated.
   (F)   Entry on private premises. The Forester or his or her duly authorized
agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose
of carrying out any of the duties assigned him or her under this subchapter, in
accordance with §
10.20.
   (G)   Diagnosis. The Forester shall, upon finding conditions indicating
Dutch elm disease or other infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens
or samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis or take other steps
for diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as provided in
division (J) below, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken
until positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.
   (H)   Abatement generally. No action to remove, destroy and dispose, or
require the removal, destruction, and disposal of elm trees, wood infected with
Dutch elm fungus, oak trees infected by oak wilt fungus or fraxinus spp (ash)
trees or fraxinus spp (ash) wood harboring emerald ash borer shall be taken
until a reasonably certain diagnosis of the disease has been made. When such
reasonably certain diagnosis has been made, the infected tree or wood shall be
removed, destroyed, and disposed of in a manner which will effectively destroy
and prevent as fully as possible the spread of the Dutch elm or oak wilt
disease fungus, or the spread of emerald ash borer populations or other tree
diseases will be handled by the recommendations of the Commissioner of
Agriculture.
      (1)   Presence of elm bark beetles or emerald ash borer. When the
presence of elm bark beetles has been discovered in or upon any living elm tree
but the presence of Dutch elm disease fungus is not then or thereafter
diagnosed, the tree shall be treated in a manner which will effectively destroy
and prevent as full as possible the spread of the elm bark beetle. When the
presence of emerald ash borer has been discovered in or upon a living fraxinus
(ash) tree, the tree shall be treated in a manner which will effectively
destroy and prevent as full as possible the spread of the emerald ash borer. If
the treatment is not or, because of the extent of infestation, cannot be
effective, the tree shall be removed, destroyed, and disposed of.
      (2)   Dead elm or fraxinus (ash) trees, logs, stumps, and the like.
Standing dead elm trees, elm logs, branches, stumps, firewood, or other raw
material from which the bark has not been removed and which are not infected
with Dutch elm disease fungus, shall have the bark removed, destroyed, and
disposed of or shall be treated in a manner which will effectively destroy and
prevent as fully as possible the spread of the elm bark beetle, emerald ash
borer or other diagnosed tree diseases. If the treatment is not effective, or,
because of the extent of infestation, cannot be effective, the trees, logs,
branches, stumps, firewood, or other raw elm material shall be removed,
destroyed, and disposed of.
      (3)   Specifications and procedures. The City Forester shall establish
specifications and procedures for the removal, destruction, and disposal of
trees and wood infected with Dutch elm disease fungus, oak wilt fungus, or
emerald ash borer for treating live elm or fraxinus (ash) tree infested with
elm bark beetles or emerald ash borers, and for removing, destroying, and
disposing of elm or fraxinus (ash) trees, logs, branches, stumps, firewood, and
other raw elm material. The specifications and procedures shall be consistent
with current specifications and procedures designated or approved by the
Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (I)   Abatement on private or government property.
      (1)   Whenever a nuisance as defined in division (C) above is found to
exist on private property outside any public way in the city, or upon property
owned and controlled by a governmental unit other than the city, the owner or
person in control of the property shall be notified in writing by mail or by
personal delivery that the condition exists. Once the letter is received by the
property owner, it is their responsibility to contact the Public Works
Department and arrange actions for removal. The notice states that if the
nuisance is not abated by the owner or person in control of the property within
20 days after receipt of the notice, in the manner prescribed by the City
Forester, the city by and through its City Council may enter upon the premises
and abate the nuisance.
      (2)   If the owner or person in control of any private premises upon
which a nuisance exists does not abate or eliminate the same within 30 days
after receipt of notification, the City Council, its officers, employees, and
agents shall proceed to have the nuisance properly abated or eliminated.
   (J)   Abatement on city property. Nuisances as defined in division (C) above
which exist upon property owned or controlled by the city, including public
street rights-of-way, shall be abated or eliminated by the City Council
forthwith in accordance with established specifications and procedures.
   (K)   Cost of abatement. If, pursuant to division (I) above, the City
Council orders the removal or abatement of a nuisance, the City Forester shall
report the cost of the removal or abatement to the Council and the expense
thereof plus an amount determined by the Council to reimburse the city for its
cost of inspection and eradication shall be assessed by the Council upon the
lot or lots on which the nuisance was located, notice being first given by
publication in the official paper of the time and place that the assessment
shall be made. The assessment procedure shall be as prescribed by M.S. §
429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and the assessment shall be a
lien on the lot or lots, and shall be returned and collected in the same manner
as other city taxes.
   (L)   Procedures for removal of infected trees and wood.
      (1)   Whenever the Forester finds with reasonable certainty that
infestation defined in division (C) above exists in any tree or wood in any
public or private place in the city, he or she shall proceed as follows:
         (a)   If the Forester finds that the danger of infestation of other
elm trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy, he or she shall make a
written report of his or her findings to the City Council which shall proceed
by:
            1.   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Ch.
429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
            2.   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (L)(2) below.
         (b)   If the Forester finds that danger of infestation of other elm
trees is imminent, the Forester shall notify the property owner by mail and/or
by leaving notice at the property and that the nuisance will be abated within a
specified time, not less than five days from the date of mailing of the notice.
The Forester shall immediately report the action to the City Council; and after
the expiration of the time limited by the notice, the Forester may abate the
nuisance.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the Forester’s report required by division (L)(1)
(a), the City Council shall by resolution order the nuisance abated. Before
action is taken on a resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its
intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice
shall be mailed to affected property owners and published once not less than
one week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the
meeting, the streets affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the
abatement, and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the
hearing or adjournment thereof, the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with the
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
      (3)   The Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements done
under this section and shall report monthly to the City Clerk all work done for
which assessments are to be made stating and certifying the description of the
land, lots, and parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
      (4)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk shall list
the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel
to which they are attributable under this subchapter. The City Council may then
spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with current taxes.
      (5)   The City Council has determined that the health of the trees within
the municipal limits is threatened by a fatal disease known as Dutch elm
disease, oak wilt, or emerald ash borer, or other fatal tree disease. It has
further determined that the loss of these trees growing upon public and private
property would substantially depreciate the value of property within the city
and impair the safety, good order, general welfare, and convenience of the
public. It is declared to be the intention of the Council to control and
prevent the spread of this disease, and this subchapter is being enacted for
that purpose. It is declared to be the intention of the Council to establish a
policy for sharing in the cost of replacement tree(s) in the amount of up to
$50 per property.
   (M)   Spraying elm trees. Whenever the Forester determines that any elm tree
or elm wood within the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, the Forester may
treat all nearby high value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle
destroying concentrate. Treating activities authorized by this section shall be
conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the
Commissioner of Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and
his or her agents whenever possible.
   (N)   Transporting elm wood prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
transport within the city any bark-bearing elm wood without having obtained a
permit from the Forester. The Forester shall grant permits only when the
purposes of the subchapter will be served thereby.
   (O)   Interference prohibited. No person shall prevent, delay, or interfere
with the Forester or the Foresters agents while they are engaged in the
performance of duties imposed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 492, passed 1-26-2009; Ord. 495, passed 1-26-2009;
Ord. 661, passed 2-13-2017; Ord. 611, passed 2-13-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.51 ABUSE OR MUTILATION.
   No person shall damage, cut, carve, kill, or injure the bark of any tree or
plant on any public property; attach any rope, wire, or other contrivance to
any tree or plant on public property; dig in or otherwise disturb public grass
areas, or in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of
any area or public property; cause or permit any wire charged with electricity
or any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance harmful to trees or plants to come
in contact with them.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
92.01 through
92.05 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-9-6) (Ord. 378, passed 5-28-2002)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Parks and Cemeteries
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Observation of posted rules
   
93.03   Parking
   
93.04   Refuse
   
93.05   Fires
   
93.06   Snowmobiles
   
93.07   Speed limit
   
93.08   Park and cemetery hours
   
93.09   Cemetery rules and regulations
PARKS AND CEMETERIES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect and promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the city by regulating the use of city
parks and cemeteries.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-1)
§ 93.02 OBSERVATION OF POSTED RULES.
   All posted rules and regulations by the city must be observed in addition to
those contained in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-2)
§ 93.03 PARKING.
   Parking is allowed only in defined areas. Parking is prohibited on grass or
walk paths.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 REFUSE.
   Refuse must be disposed of properly.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-4)
§ 93.05 FIRES.
   Fires are only allowed in barbecue pits or fireplaces and all other fires
are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SNOWMOBILES.
   Snowmobiles are not allowed in cemeteries or the West Riverside Park.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 SPEED LIMIT.
   All vehicular traffic in city parks and cemeteries is limited to a speed of
10 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-7)
§ 93.08 PARK AND CEMETERY HOURS.
   All city parks shall be open to the public one-half hour before sunrise to
one-half hour after sunset daily.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-8) (Ord. 81, passed 7-14-1980)
§ 93.09 CEMETERY RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   City Council shall adopt rules and regulations for Riverside Cemetery. The
city’s Parks Commission shall be responsible for reviewing and making
recommendations on an annual basis to the Council concerning the rules and
regulations and the fees charged for cemetery services. All rules and
regulations governing Riverside Cemetery shall be as set forth in the policies
document approved by the Council on October 22, 2001 and all revisions thereto
as approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-6-10) (Ord. 367, passed 10-22-2001)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-of-Way Regulations
   
94.01   Findings, purpose, and intent
   
94.02   Election to manage the right-of-way
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Administration
   
94.05   Registration and right-of-way occupancy
   
94.06   Registration information
   
94.07   Reporting obligations
   
94.08   Permit requirement
   
94.09   Permit applications
   
94.10   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
94.11   Right-of-way permit fees
   
94.12   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
94.13   Joint applications
   
94.14   Supplementary applications
   
94.15   Other obligations
   
94.16   Denial of permit
   
94.17   Installation requirements
   
94.18   Inspection
   
94.19   Work done without a permit
   
94.20   Supplementary notification
   
94.21   Revocation of permits
   
94.22   Mapping date
   
94.23   Location and relocation of facilities
   
94.24   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
94.25   Damage to other facilities
   
94.26   Right-of-way vacation
   
94.27   Indemnification and liability
   
94.28   Abandoned and unusable facilities
   
94.29   Appeal
   
94.30   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Skateboards, Roller Skates/Blades, and Scooters
   
94.45   Definitions
   
94.46   Prohibited areas
   
94.47   Observation of rules of the road
Salt Storage
   
94.55   Removal of snow and ice; commercial, industrial, institutional
properties
 
   
94.99   Penalty
RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS
§ 94.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to
ensure the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-
way, the city strives to keep its rights-of-way in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary encumbrances.
   (B)   Accordingly, the city hereby enacts this new subchapter of this code
relating to right-of-way permits and administration. This subchapter imposes
reasonable regulation on the placement and maintenance of facilities and
equipment currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some
future time. It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state and
federal agencies. Under this subchapter, persons excavating and obstructing the
rights-of-way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this
subchapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from
persons using the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session
Laws, Chapter 123, substantially codified in M.S. §§ 237.16, 237.162, 237.163,
237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the “Act”), as they may be amended from time to
time, and the other laws governing applicable rights of the city and users of
the right-of-way. This subchapter shall also be interpreted consistent with
Minn. Rules parts 7819.0050 through 7819.9950 and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 where
possible. To the extent any provision of this subchapter cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This
subchapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers
of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-1)
§ 94.02 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant
M.S. § 237.163, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time, to manage
rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-2)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED FACILITY. A facility no longer in service or physically
disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other
facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not ABANDONED
unless declared so by the right-of-way user or by the city. A facility is
considered ABANDONED after 12 months of non-use.
   ANTI-ICING. The application of a liquid deicer prior to the onset of a snow
event.
   APPLICANT. Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-
of-way.
   CITY. The city of Monticello, Minnesota. For purposes of §
94.28, CITY also means the city’s elected officials, officers, employees, and
agents.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure that is owned privately or by a local government
unit.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Public Utilities Commission.
   CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY. A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with M.S. § 216D.04, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
   CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND. Any of the following forms of security
provided at the permittee’s option:
      (1)   Individual project bond;
      (2)   Cash deposit;
      (3)   Security of a form listed or approved under M.S. § 15.73, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the city;
      (5)   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the city; and
      (6)   A blanket bond for projects within the city, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the city.
   DEGRADATION. A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct the right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
   DEGRADATION COST. Subject to Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration, as determined by the city at the time the
permit is issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to
13, set forth in Minn. Rules parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
   DEGRADATION FEE. The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by
the city to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of
the right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation
cost.
   DEICER. Any substance used to melt snow and ice or used for its anti-icing
effects.
   DELAY PENALTY. The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in
right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established
by permit.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works and Engineering of the city.
   DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR. Any person authorized by the city to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this subchapter.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works of the city, or his
or her designee.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that:
      (1)   Poses a danger to life or health, or of a significant loss of
property; or
      (2)   Requires immediate repair or replacement of facilities in order to
restore service to a customer.
   EQUIPMENT. Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain
facilities in any right-of-way.
   EXCAVATE. To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An EXCAVATION PERMIT
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the
permit.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.12.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
   FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next five years.
   HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR. A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
   HOLE. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
less than the width of the pavement.
   LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE. A local person or persons, or designee of the person
or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions
for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this subchapter.
   MANAGEMENT COSTS or RIGHTS-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT COSTS.
      (1)   The actual costs a local government unit incurs in managing its
public rights-of-way, and includes such costs, if incurred, as those associated
with registering applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or
small wireless facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and
restoration projects; maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user
equipment during public right-of-way work; determining the adequacy of right-
of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed after providing
notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking right-of-way or
small wireless facility permits.
      (2)   MANAGEMENT COSTS do not include:
         (a)   Payment by a telecommunications right-of-way user for the use of
the public right-of-way;
         (b)   Unreasonable fees of a third-party contractor used by a local
government unit as part of managing its public rights-of-way, including, but
not limited to, any third-party contractor fee tied to or based upon customer
counts, access lines, revenue generated by the telecommunications right-of-way
user, or revenue generated for a local government unit; or
         (c)   The fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation
of this section or M.S. § 237.163, as it may be amended from time to time, or
any ordinance enacted under those sections, or the local unit of government’s
fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to M.S. § 237.163, subd. 5, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger than 24
inches long, 15 inches wide, and 12 inches high, and whose exterior antenna, if
any, is no longer than 11 inches.
   OBSTRUCT. To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder
free and open passage over that or any part of the right-of-way.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT. The permit which, pursuant to this subchapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
   OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE. Money paid to the city by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in §
94.12.
   PATCH or PATCHING.
      (1)   A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in nature.
      (2)   A PATCH consists of:
         (a)   The compaction of the subbase and aggregate base; and
         (b)   The replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
      (3)   A PATCH is considered full restoration only when the pavement is
included in the city’s five-year project plan.
   PAVEMENT. Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-
way and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
   PERMIT. Has the meaning given RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT in M.S. § 237.162, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way has been granted by the city under this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this state,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the city. A RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other nonwire
telecommunications or broadcast service. (Note: this definition does not
include other public grounds that may be the subject of other city
requirements.)
   REGISTRANT. Any person who:
      (1)   Has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities located in any
right-of-way; or
      (2)   In any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-
of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the right-of-way.
   RESTORATION COST. The amount of money paid to the city by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of state’s Public
Utilities Commission rules.
   RESTORE or RESTORATION. The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation and turf, is returned to
the same condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW) PERMIT. The excavation permit, the obstruction permit, or
the small wireless facility permit, or all types of ROW PERMIT authorized by
law or ordinance, depending on the context, required by this subchapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by M.S. §
237.162, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that
is used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a
right under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
   SERVICE or UTILITY SERVICE. Includes:
      (1)   Those services provided by a public utility as defined in M.S. §
216B.02, subds. 4 and 6, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
transporting of voice or data information;
      (3)   Services of a cable communications systems as defined in M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services
provided by the city;
      (5)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Water and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
   SERVICE LATERAL. An underground facility that is used to transmit,
distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, communications, or water from a common
source to an end-use customer. A SERVICE LATERAL is also an underground
facility that is used in the removal of wastewater from a customer’s premises.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Includes:
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements could fit within an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the SMALL WIRELESS
FACILITY, excluding electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical cable runs for the
connection of power and other services, and any equipment concealed from public
view within or behind an existing structure or concealment, is in aggregate no
more than 28 cubic feet in volume.
      (2)   A micro wireless facility.
   SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION. An application made to excavate or obstruct more
of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already
been issued.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.
      (1)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the public right-of-
way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the public right-of-way, that
is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless service, or
transporting telecommunications or other voice or data information.
      (2)   A cable communication system defined and regulated under M.S. Ch.
238, as it may be amended from time to time, and telecommunications activities
related to providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility
as defined in M.S. § 216B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, a
municipality, a municipal gas or power agency organized under M.S. Ch. 453 or
Ch. 453A, as they may be amended from time to time, or a cooperative electric
association organized under M.S. Ch. 308A, as it may be amended from time to
time, are not TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USERS for the purposes of this
section and M.S. § 237.163, as it may be amended from time to time, except to
the extent these entities are offering wireless services.
   TEMPORARY SURFACE. The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the city’s two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
   TRENCH. An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
   TWO-YEAR PROJECT PLAN. Shows projects adopted by the city for construction
within the next two years.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision of
wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless service;
         (b)   A radio transceiver, antenna, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration; and
         (c)   A small wireless facility.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   Wireless support structures;
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities; or
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cables:
            1.   Between utility poles or wireless support structures; or
            2.   That are not otherwise immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a specific antenna.
   WIRELESS SERVICE. Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means
of a mobile device, that is provided using wireless facilities. WIRELESS
SERVICE does not include services regulated under Title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934, as amended, including a cable service under 47
U.S.C. § 522, clause (6).
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure in a public right-
of-way designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities,
as reasonably determined by a local government unit.
   WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY. A facility used to transport communications data
by wire from a wireless facility to a communications network.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-3) (Ord. 790, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 94.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Director is the principal city official responsible for the
administration of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances
related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-4)
§ 94.05 REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the city. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration prior to work. No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of §§
70.20 through
70.24. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the M.S. Ch. 216D, Gopher One Call Law, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-5)
§ 94.06 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration; and
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city; and
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees;
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees, and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities, and collapse of
property;
            3.   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
            4.   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
            5.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, worker’s compensation, and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this subchapter;
            6.   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
            7.   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under M.S. Ch. 302A, as it may be amended from time to
time, as recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
            8.   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of
authority from the state’s Public Utilities Commission or other applicable
state or federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the
certificate from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the date on which the registrant has knowledge
of any change.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-6)
§ 94.07 REPORTING OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Operations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by December
1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for underground
facilities with the city. The plan shall be submitted using a format designated
by the city and shall contain the information determined by the city to be
necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of
excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall include, but not
be limited to, the following information:
         (a)   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of
all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
“next-year project”); and
         (b)   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated
beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five years
following the next calendar year (in this section, a “five-year project”).
      (2)   The term PROJECT in this section shall include both next-year
projects and five-year projects.
      (3)   By January 1 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city’s office a composite list of all projects of which the
city has been informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
      (4)   Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project
in its list of next-year projects, and must notify the city and all other
registrants of all changes in the list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
registrant may at any time join in a next-year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   (B)   Additional next-year projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-7)
§ 94.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct, excavate, or place any structure in any right-of-way without
first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way permit from the city to do
so. All work completed as part of a right-of-way permit shall conform to the
city’s general specifications and standard detail plates for street and utility
construction, and the city’s design manual.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same
project.
      (3)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to place a new wireless support structure or to
collocate a small wireless facility in a public right-of-way managed by the
city. A separate collocation agreement is required to collocate a small
wireless facility on existing city structures. A maximum of 15 small wireless
facilities may be consolidated onto one permit application, provided that all
of the facilities:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless:
      (1)   The person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, subd. 3
and notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall establish and impose a
delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-8)
§ 94.09 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for a permit is made to the city.
   (B)   Right-of-way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with, the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Registration with the city pursuant to this subchapter;
      (2)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities;
      (3)   Payment of money due the city for:
         (a)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other management
costs;
         (b)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
         (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
         (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      (4)   Payment of disputed amounts due the city by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least 110% of the amount
owing; and
      (5)   Posting an additional or larger construction performance bond for
additional facilities when applicant requests an excavation permit to install
additional facilities and the city deems the existing construction performance
bond inadequate under applicable standards.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-9)
§ 94.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to,
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), as
they may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-10)
§ 94.11 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fee schedule. See
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (C)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (D)   Small wireless facility permit fees. The city shall establish the
permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs or
collect the maximum fees authorized by law.
   (E)   Payment of permit fees. No permit shall be issued without payment of
excavation, obstruction, or small wireless facility permit fees. The city may
allow applicant to pay the fees within 30 days of billing.
   (F)   Non refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
94.21 are not refundable.
   (G)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-11)
§ 94.12 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under §
94.16.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If, following the
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with correcting the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule
part 7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the city and shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee
upon notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable or
unreasonable under §
94.16.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-12)
§ 94.13 JOINT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Joint application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the city does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With city projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the city, whether or not it is a joint application by
two or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay the
excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-13)
§ 94.14 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-14)
§ 94.15 OTHER OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with other laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the city or other applicable
rule, law, or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state, and federal laws, including, but not limited to, M.S. § 216D.01
through 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System), as they may be
amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560. A permittee shall perform
all work in conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and
regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right-of-way pursuant
to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
city, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for the work.
   (C)   Interference with right-of-way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with city parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit.
   (D)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560
and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities
before excavating, as determined by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-15)
§ 94.16 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use. Denials will be provided in
writing and in accordance with statutory requirements.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-16)
§ 94.17 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The placement of any structures or facilities, the excavation,
backfilling, patching, and restoration, and all other work performed in the
right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.1100 and
7819.5000 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be amended from
time to time. Installation of service laterals shall be performed in accordance
with Minn. Rules Ch. 7560 and this subchapter. Service lateral installation is
further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth by the city in
the applicable permits and/or agreements referenced in §
94.23(B). Wireless support structures shall not exceed 50 feet in height. To
the extent possible, all ground mounted equipment shall be installed
underground or in locations and in a manner to minimize interference with
traffic, pedestrians, and other users of the right of way or the appearance of
abutting properties.
   (B)   Unless unfeasible as determined by the city, all utilities shall be
placed underground for new construction, roadway reconstruction, and
replacement of old facilities. All underground work shall be completed prior to
street surfacing.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-17) (Ord. 746, passed 8-10-2020)
§ 94.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to the
city and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If the proof has not been presented within
the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to § 
94.22.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-18)
§ 94.19 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each registrant shall immediately notify the Director of any event
regarding its facilities that it considers to be an emergency. The registrant
may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Excavators’ notification to Gopher State One Call regarding an emergency
situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant’s
facilities, the city will attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the city may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities
occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
city code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-19)
§ 94.20 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-20)
§ 94.21 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
94.19.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy the violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city that will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or permittee’s failure to timely submit an acceptable plan,
or permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   (D)   Cause for probation. From time to time, the city may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way grossly outside of
the permit authorization.
   (E)   Automatic revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   (F)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-21)
§ 94.22 MAPPING DATE.
   (A)   Information required. Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Within 90 days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the “as-built” location of all equipment installed,
owed, and maintained by the permittee. The maps and drawings shall include the
horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall be
provided consistent with the city’s electronic mapping system, when practical
or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings
pursuant to this division (A) shall be grounds for revoking the permit holder’s
registration.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules part
7560.0150 subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director
evidence satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral
locations. Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call Law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after
December 31, 2005 shall be a condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time; and
      (2)   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time.
The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing the
information to the city. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on
the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit
issued for the work or future permits to the offending permittee or its
subcontractors.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-22)
§ 94.23 LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance with regulations. Placement, location, and relocation of
facilities must comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn.
Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not
limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors.
      (1)   The city may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or any
particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
      (2)   Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position
at variance with the corridors established by the city shall, no later than at
the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the
facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the
right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the city for good cause
shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the
facilities, public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the
registrant.
   (C)   Nuisance. One year after the passage of this subchapter, any
facilities found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be
deemed to be a nuisance. The city may exercise any remedies or rights it has at
law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a useable
condition.
   (D)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-23)
§ 94.24 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. §§ 216D.01 through
216D.09 (One Call Excavation Notice System), as they may be amended from time
to time, before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant
who has facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the
horizontal and vertical placement of all the facilities. Any registrant whose
facilities are less than 20 inches below a concrete or asphalt surface shall
notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the exact
location of its facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-24)
§ 94.25 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect it, the city
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (B)   Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damage. Each
registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the
facilities of another registrant caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that registrant’s facilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-25)
§ 94.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-26)
§ 94.27 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By registering with the city, or by accepting a permit under this
subchapter, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city
in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rule part 7819.1250.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-27)
§ 94.28 ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Discontinued operations. A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the city must provide
information satisfactory to the city that the registrant’s obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this subchapter have been lawfully assumed
by another registrant.
   (B)   Removal. Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-28)
§ 94.29 APPEAL.
   (A)   A right-of-way user that:
      (1)   Has been denied registration;
      (2)   Has been denied a permit;
      (3)   Has had a permit revoked;
      (4)   Believes that the fees imposed are not in conformity with M.S. §
237.163, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   Disputes a determination of the Director regarding §
94.23(B) may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision reviewed,
upon written request, by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its
appeal with sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A
decision by the Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition
will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing the
reasonableness of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-29)
§ 94.30 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 8-11-30)
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES/BLADES, AND SCOOTERS
§ 94.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any area of the city within a B-3 (highway
business) zoning district or B-4 (regional business) zoning district.
   OPERATE. To ride on or control the operation of a skateboard, roller skates/
blades, or scooter.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter.
   ROLLER SKATES/BLADES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with wheels
which is designated to be attached to a shoe.
   SCOOTER. A foot-operated vehicle consisting of a narrow board mounted
between two wheels, tandem, with an upright steering handle attached to the
front wheel.
   SKATEBOARDS. A wheeled device designed to transport a rider in a standing
position, which device is not otherwise secured to the rider’s feet or shoes.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-1)
§ 94.46 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No person shall ride or use a skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter:
   (A)   On any public sidewalk, street, or any public parking lot situated in
the Central Business District in any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so
as to endanger or be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of
any other person;
   (B)   On any other public or private property of another without the express
permission to do so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
   (C)   On any state highway in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-2) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.47 OBSERVATION OF RULES OF THE ROAD.
   (A)   The operator of a skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter
emerging from any alley, driveway, or building upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   (B)   No person operating a skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter
shall attach the same or the person of the operator to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
   (C)   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter
upon a roadway shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb or edge
of the roadway.
   (D)   No person shall use a skateboard, roller skates/blades, or scooter
upon a public street, sidewalk, or other roadway after sunset and before
sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-3) Penalty, see §
94.99
SALT STORAGE
§ 94.55 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE; COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, INSTITUTIONAL
PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Indoor operations for the storage of deicing materials must be
provided whenever possible in order to prevent such material from being
affected by rain, snow, or melt water.
   (B)   All salt, sand, and other deicing materials stored outdoors must be
covered at all times. When not using a permanent roof, a waterproof
impermeable, flexible cover must be placed over all storage piles. The cover
must prevent runoff and leachate from being generated by the outdoor storage
piles. The cover must be secured to prevent removal by wind or other storm
events. Piles must be formed in a conical shape and covered as necessary to
prevent leaching.
   (C)   Facility siting.
      (1)   The facility must be in close proximity to the area in which the
deicing materials are to be used, if practical.
      (2)   Each facility must be located outside of floodplains and 200 feet
from lakes, rivers, streams, ditches, storm drains, manholes, catch basins,
wetlands, and any other areas likely to absorb runoff. A facility must not be
located in close proximity to surface water features, water supplies, wells or
drywells.
      (3)   A facility must be located on impermeable surfaces.
      (4)   The property's slope must be away from the facility's salt, deicer,
and sand storage area.
      (5)   Salt vulnerable natural areas should be avoided as storage
facilities to the extent possible. Where they cannot be avoided, specific
measures should be instituted to protect vulnerable areas. Salt vulnerable
areas include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Areas with salt sensitive vegetation;
         (b)   Areas serving as a source of drinking water (surface water and
groundwater);
         (c)   Areas with bodies of water with low dilution, low volume, or
salt sensitive species; or
         (d)   Areas associated with groundwater recharge zones or shallow
water table, with medium to high permeable soils.
      (6)   Snow piles. Snow piles must be located downslope from salt and
deicer storage areas to prevent the snow melt from flowing through storage
areas and carrying material to the nearest drainage system or waterway.
      (7)   Transfer of materials. Practices must be implemented in order to
reduce exposure (e.g., sweeping, diversions, and/or containment) when
transferring salt or other deicing material.
(Ord. 790, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
94.45 through
94.47 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished not more than the maximum penalty as prescribed by state law. In
addition, any peace officer who observes any person violate any provisions of
§§
94.45 through
94.47 is authorized to seize the offender’s roller skates/blades, skateboard,
or scooter and to hold same at the County Sheriff’s Department or city’s Police
Department. In the event of such seizure, the offender, if an adult, may secure
the return of the article seized after 24 hours have elapsed since the seizure.
In the case of a minor, the article seized shall be returned only to the parent
or guardian of the minor offender after 24 hours have elapsed since the
seizure.
(Prior Code, § 8-10-4) (Ord. 263, passed 11-28-1994; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Code
   
95.01   Fire Code
   
95.02   Enforcement
   
95.03   Definitions
Fire Lanes
   
95.15   Establishment
   
95.16   Prohibited acts
Open Burning
   
95.30   Definitions
   
95.31   Burning restricted
   
95.32   Open burning permit applications
   
95.33   Permit denial and/or revocation
   
95.34   Liability
   
95.35   Conflicting laws
   
95.36   Recreational fires
   
95.37   Key boxes
 
   
95.99   Penalty
FIRE CODE
§ 95.01 FIRE CODE.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code (MSFC), current adopted version, and all
amendments, including Appendices B, C, D, E and P thereto, one copy of which
has been marked as the official copy and which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion. Every provision contained in this Code, except as
modified or amended by this subchapter, is hereby adopted and made a part of
this subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 391, passed 6-9-2003; Ord. 742, passed 5-11-2020)
§ 95.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department serving the city or the
representative authorized by the Chief shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The Chief of
the Fire Department may recommend the employment of technical inspectors who,
when the authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to
determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to
members and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after
examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 391, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The attorney for the city.
   JURISDICTION.  The City of Monticello.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3)
FIRE LANES
§ 95.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Orders establishing fire lanes. The Fire Department is hereby
authorized to order the establishment of fire lanes on public or private
property as may be necessary in order that the travel of fire equipment may not
be interfered with and that access to fire hydrants or buildings may not be
obstructed.
   (B)   Signs and markings of fire lanes. When a fire lane has been ordered to
be established pursuant to this section, it shall be marked by a sign bearing
the words “No Parking - Fire Lane - By Order of the Fire Department”. When the
fire lane is on public property or a public right-of-way, the sign or signs
shall be erected by the city; and when on private property, they shall be
erected by owner at his or her own expense within 30 days after he or she has
been notified of the order.
   (C)   Parking or otherwise obstructing prohibited. After a sign or signs
have been erected in accordance with division (B) above, no person shall park a
vehicle or otherwise occupy or obstruct the fire lane.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.16 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Interference with fire service duties. No unauthorized persons shall
ride upon, race with, trail, or follow within 500 feet of any apparatus
belonging to the Fire Department when the apparatus is responding to an
emergency call.
   (B)   Protection of fire hoses. No person shall drive any vehicle over a
fire hose except upon specific orders from a member of the Fire Department of
this municipality, and then only with due caution.
   (C)   Parking near fire equipment. No person shall park any vehicle or place
any material or other obstruction within ten feet of any fire hydrant or fire
reservoir, nor shall any person enter any block or park any vehicle within 300
feet of a place where a fire is in progress which requires equipment from the
Fire Department to be present.
   (D)   False fire alarm. No person shall sound a false fire alarm knowing the
alarm to be false.
   (E)   Authorized use of fire equipment. No person shall use any fire
apparatus or equipment for any reason except as may be prescribed by the Fire
Chief or his or her delegated representatives.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) Penalty, see § 95.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NATURAL/VEGETATIVE MATTER. Grass clippings, leaves, twigs, sticks, and
branches, but not the main trunk nor primary limbs of trees, and the non-
harvested parts of garden plants.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct, or chimney.
   SCOPE. As used herein, the following words shall have the meanings defined
herein.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 95.31 BURNING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall cause, allow, or permit any burning in the city except
as may hereinafter be allowed.
   (B)   Open burning may be conducted if an open burning permit is obtained
pursuant to the requirements of this subchapter and other regulations of local,
state, and federal agencies.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.32 OPEN BURNING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application. Application for open burning permits may be made in cases
where fires are proposed to be set for the following purposes:
      (1)   Bona fide instruction and training of fire fighting personnel and
for the testing of fire extinguishing equipment;
      (2)   Elimination of fire of health hazards which cannot be abated by any
other practicable means;
      (3)   Activities in accordance with accepted forest or game management;
      (4)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction; and/or
      (5)   The required maintenance and management of designated prairie grass
areas.
   (B)   Restrictions. A burning permit shall be issued on a prescribed form to
the applicant if the burning is for one of the purposes set forth in division
(A) above and the applicant agrees that all burning shall be conducted under
the following circumstances.
      (1)   The prevailing wind at the time of the burning shall be away for
nearby residences.
      (2)   The burning shall be conducted as far away as practical from any
highway or public road and controlled so that a traffic hazard is not created.
      (3)   The burning may not be conducted during the duration of an air
pollution alert, warning, or emergency.
      (4)   The recipient of the permit or his or her authorized representative
shall be present for the duration of any fire authorized by the permit.
      (5)   Prior notice shall be given to the local Department of Natural
Resources Forest Officer, local Fire Marshal, or local Fire Chief of the time
and location of any fire authorized by the permit.
      (6)   Open burning for ground thawing shall be conducted in accordance
with the following additional restrictions.
         (a)   Fuels and starting materials shall be of a kind which do not
generate appreciable smoke.
         (b)   Propane gas thawing torches or other devices causing minimal
pollution shall be used when practicable.
      (7)   Open burning of materials permitted in division (A)(5) above shall
be conducted in accordance with the following additional restrictions.
         (a)   The location of the burning shall not be within 600 feet of an
occupied residence other than those located on the property on which the
burning is conducted. The distance can be reduced when the burn is performed by
or with the assistance of the Fire Department.
         (b)   Oils, rubber, and other similar smoke producing materials shall
not be burned or used as starting materials.
         (c)   The burning shall not be conducted within one mile of any
airport or landing strip unless approved by the Fire Chief.
      (8)   The following persons are authorized to accept application and
issue open burning permits:
         (a)   Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Building Official; and
         (c)   Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3) (Ord. 373, passed 4-22-2002)
§ 95.33 PERMIT DENIAL AND/OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any permit application submitted shall be denied if:
      (1)   A reasonable, practical alternative method of disposal of the
material is available; or
      (2)   A nuisance condition would result from the burning.
   (B)   Any permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of a Department
of Natural Resources Forest Officer, the local Fire Marshal, or Fire Chief, or
the permit issuer if:
      (1)   A reasonable practical method of disposal of the material is found;
      (2)   A fire hazard exists or develops during the course of the burning;
or
      (3)   Any of the conditions of the permit are violated.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-4)
§ 95.34 LIABILITY.
   The granting of an open burning permit under any provisions of this
subchapter does not excuse a person from the consequences, damages, or inquires
which may result therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-5)
§ 95.35 CONFLICTING LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to allow open burning in those
areas in which open burning is prohibited by other laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-6)
§ 95.36 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   Fires set for recreational, ceremonial, food preparation, or social purposes
are permitted provided the following conditions are adhered to:
   (A)   Only dry raw wood, or wood products such as sticks. No painted or
treated wood or other lightweight vegetation such as leaves shall be burned in
a recreational fire;
   (B)   Fire must be contained within a three feet diameter fire pit area;
   (C)   Fire must not be left unattended; and
   (D)   Fire pits must be located in rear yard only, at least 25 feet from any
structure or property line. Portable fire pits with covers are allowed for use
in front yards on driveways only and may not be within 25 feet of any structure
in the front yard. All fires must be completely extinguished with water before
leaving them unattended. Portable fire pits with covers shall not be stored on
the driveway or front yard when not in use. The wind should also be considered
before lighting any fire; and
   (E)   Commercial fire pits must comply with all of the residential rules
with the addition of:
      (1)   Must be 15 feet from the property line and building and any
combustible exterior facade or awning.
      (2)   No overhead covering above fire.
      (3)   Wood storage must be locked and only accessible by staff.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-7) (Ord. 252, passed 6-13-1994; Ord. 373, passed 4-22-2002;
Ord. 773, passed 3-28- 2022)
§ 95.37 KEY BOXES.
   The Minnesota State Fire Code (MSFC), § 506.1 is amended by the following:
Key Boxes:
   (A)   Will be located near the front entrance of any commercial building at
six feet above finished grade, or as approved by the Fire Code Official;
   (B)   Additional boxes may be used at more than one location when required
because of the size of the building, number of keys, or other special hazard as
required by the AHJ; and
   (C)   The box shall be of an approved vendor and model as approved by the
Fire Code Official.
(Ord. 768, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.03 hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with an order as affirmed or
modified by the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the
time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every violation and
noncompliance respectively be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall
be punished not more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed
by state law. The imposition of penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-9)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
95.30 through
95.36 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-8)
(Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC GATHERINGS
Section
Neighborhood Block Parties
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definition
   
96.03   Permit required
   
96.04   Permit application
   
96.05   Fees
   
96.06   General provisions
   
96.07   Application review
   
96.08   Permit issuance
   
96.09   Revocation of permit
Special Event Permits
   
96.20   Purpose
   
96.21   Permit requirements
   
96.22   Exemptions
   
96.23   Standards
   
96.24   Conditions
   
96.25   Temporary cannabis events
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
NEIGHBORHOOD BLOCK PARTIES
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that reasonable regulations of, and allowances for,
temporary gatherings held in a section of street contained within a
neighborhood are necessary because of the impact such activities may have on a
specific area.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-1)
§ 96.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK PARTY. A temporary gathering held on a barricaded public street
contained within a residential neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-2)
§ 96.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or hold any block party
unless a permit has been properly obtained from the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking the issuance of a block party permit shall file an
application with the city on an application form prescribed by the City Clerk.
An application shall be filed with the city not less than 14 days nor more than
60 days before the proposed date of the event.
   (B)   With the printed application form, the applicant shall provide a site
plan depicting the location of all proposed facilities and equipment and the
proposed street segments to be closed.
   (C)   Within seven days of receipt of permit, the applicant shall be
provided a list of persons to be notified of the proposed event. All parties on
the list shall be notified within seven days of the event in writing by the
applicant. The applicant shall notify the city upon completion of the
notification.
   (D)   No permits shall be issued to applicants that cannot demonstrate
compliance with all provisions of this subchapter or who have had block parties
previously terminated by police action.
   (E)   The applicant shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its
agents, and employees from any and all claims, demands, actions, or cause of
action of whatsoever nature or character arising out of or by reason of, the
conduct of the block party in any respect, including, but not limited to,
costs, attorney’s fees, expenses, and the like, incurred in connection with the
defense or settlement of any claims for injuries or damage resulting from or
connected with the block party.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-4)
§ 96.05 FEES.
   Fees are as adopted in the fee schedule,
Chapter 36, and set annually by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-5)
§ 96.06 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   To promote public safety and to ensure adequate access, no more than
one block or section of road shall be barricaded for the duration of the event.
   (B)   Barricades shall be placed at either end of the temporarily closed
street section as directed by city staff. Barricades shall be placed in a
manner to allow for access by emergency vehicles. A ten-foot wide lane shall be
free from barricades, equipment, and devices throughout the barricaded street
section.
   (C)   Only local roads may be closed or barricaded for a block party.
   (D)   A block party shall be limited to residents in the immediate affected
area and their invited guests and not the general public.
   (E)   Parties shall be limited to a maximum of eight hours in duration and
shall be conducted between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (F)   Noise and music levels shall not be audible beyond the area designated
for the block party. The block party shall be in compliance with the city’s
noise ordinance (§
130.09).
   (G)   The applicant shall be responsible for cleaning up after the event.
The right-of-way shall be completely free of all materials, objects, or
obstructions within one hour of the scheduled end of the event. The applicant
shall remove the barricades from the street at the conclusion of the event and
place in an area designated by city staff with the permit approval.
   (H)   Alcohol sales are prohibited.
   (I)   The consumption of alcohol in the right-of-way is prohibited.
   (J)   The applicant is responsible for any damages to the right-of-way and
street surface.
   (K)   The city’s authorized public safety agents are authorized to terminate
any block party not in full compliance with all provisions of this subchapter,
not in full compliance of all conditions of operation required at the time of
approval, or being maintained as a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-6)
§ 96.07 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The City Clerk shall review the application and consider approval based on
the following factors.
   (A)   The applicant has provided a complete submittal.
   (B)   The Wright County Sheriff’s office has no objections to the content of
the submission.
   (C)   The Fire Department has no objections to the content of the
submission.
   (D)   The Public Works Director has no objections to the content of the
submission and has the capabilities to handle the Department’s obligations to
administer the permit.
   (E)   The submission is in full compliance with all requirements of all city
ordinances.
   (F)   There is adequate city staff available to ensure all aspects of this
subchapter may be enforced and acted upon.
   (G)   There are no other extenuating circumstances that may endanger the
health, safety, and general welfare of the city and its citizens.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-7)
§ 96.08 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   Upon issuing the permit, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and
provide a list of all conditions of approval and requirements for the permit.
Copies of the approval shall be provided to all affected agencies and
departments.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-8)
§ 96.09 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city may revoke the permit at any time due to any violation of §§
96.01 through
96.09, conditions of approval, or any emergency condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-17-9) (Ord. 505, passed 10-26-2009)
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
§ 96.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this permit is to apply procedures and standards to all
special events that are planned for or which reasonably may be expected to
attract more than 100 persons at any one time (including, but not limited to,
cultural events, musical events, celebrations, festivals, fairs, and carnivals)
held on private property within the city, unless expressly exempted.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-1) (Ord. 646, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 96.21 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All special events subject to this subchapter shall have a permit for
a special event reviewed and approved or approved with conditions by the City
Clerk before conducting the special event.
   (B)   A temporary use permit for a special event authorized in accordance
with this subchapter shall be limited to a maximum duration of 14 days per site
per calendar year, unless otherwise specifically authorized by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Permits requiring use of city property shall require the review and
approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Special events shall not operate before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
unless a special event permit (or other) for the activity has been approved by
the City Council. The permit supersedes the provisions of §
130.09(B).
(Prior Code, § 3-19-2) (Ord. 646, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 96.22 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   On grounds of private residence. Special events or activities
occurring within, or on the grounds of, a private residence or on the common
areas of a single-family attached, townhouse, two- to four-family, or multi-
family residential development.
   (B)   Event sponsored by city or state. Any event sponsored in whole or in
part by the city or state.
   (C)   Event or activity at site intended for such event or activity. Any
organized activities conducted at sites or facilities typically intended and
used for such activities. Examples of the exempt activities include, but are
not limited to, sporting events such as golf, soccer, softball, and baseball
tournaments conducted on courses or fields intended and used for such
activities; fairs and carnivals at fairgrounds; wedding services conducted at
reception halls, or similar facilities; funeral services conducted at funeral
homes or cemeteries; religious services, wedding services, and funeral services
conducted at religious institutions.
   (D)   Event approved as part of another permit. Temporary special events
that are expressly approved as part of another permit shall not require
separate review under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-3) (Ord. 646, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 96.23 STANDARDS.
   In addition to the general temporary use criteria to be reviewed with the
permit application, the following standards shall also apply.
   (A)   False or material misleading information. The application shall be
certified by the applicant as not containing intentionally false or materially
misleading information.
   (B)   Unreasonable risk. There is a finding that the special event would not
create an unreasonable risk of significant:
      (1)   Damage to public or private property, beyond normal wear and tear;
      (2)   Injury to persons;
      (3)   Public or private disturbance or nuisances;
      (4)   Unsafe impediments or distractions to, or congestion of, vehicular
or pedestrian travel;
      (5)   Additional and impracticable or unduly burdensome police, fire,
trash removal, maintenance, or other public services demands; and/or
      (6)   Other adverse effects upon the public health, safety, or welfare.
   (C)   Location cannot be accommodated. The special event shall not be of
such a nature, size, or duration that the particular location requested cannot
reasonably accommodate the event.
   (D)   Time permitted or reserved for other activities. The special event
shall not conflict with another permitted special event at the same location in
a manner that will negatively impact the public health, welfare, or safety.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-4) (Ord. 646, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 96.24 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In approving the permit for the special event, the City Clerk is
authorized to impose conditions upon the issuance of the permit as may be
necessary to reduce or minimize any potential adverse impacts upon other
property in the area, as long as the condition relates to a situation created
or aggravated by the proposed special event.
   (B)   The City Clerk is authorized, where appropriate, to require:
      (1)   Provision of temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
access and egress;
      (2)   Control of nuisance factors, such as, but not limited to, the
prevention of glare or direct illumination of adjacent properties, noise,
vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, and heat;
      (3)   Regulation of temporary buildings, structures, and facilities,
including placement, height and size, location of equipment and open spaces,
including buffer areas and other yards;
      (4)   Provision of sanitary and medical facilities;
      (5)   Provision of solid waste collection and disposal;
      (6)   Provision of security and safety measures;
      (7)   Use of an alternative location or date for the proposed special
event;
      (8)   Modification or elimination of certain proposed activities;
      (9)   Regulation of operating hours and days, including limitation of the
duration of the special event to a shorter time period than that requested or
specified in this section; or
      (10)   Submission of a performance guarantee to ensure that any temporary
facilities or structures used for the proposed special event will be removed
from the site within a reasonable time following the event and that the
property will be restored to its former condition.
(Prior Code, § 3-19-5) (Ord. 646, passed 5-23-2016)
§ 96.25 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   Any temporary cannabis event shall comply with all requirements of §
153.093.
   (B)   Any temporary cannabis event shall comply with all the requirements of
this section, and all of the requirements of §§
96.21 through
96.24.
   (C)   No temporary cannabis event shall be permitted except where the event
organizer holds a valid temporary cannabis event organizer license from the
State of Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
   (D)   No temporary cannabis event that provides retail sales of any low-
potency hemp product may occur in any location other than a B-3 or B-4 zoning
district, and shall be subject to the buffer requirements as found in §
153.091(A)(4)(c).
   (E)   A temporary cannabis event that does not allow retail sales or on-site
consumption may be held in other locations of the city, except that no such
event shall occur on property used for residential purposes.
   (F)   No temporary cannabis event shall allow smoking of any tobacco,
cannabis, or lower-potency hemp product.
   (G)   A temporary cannabis event may allow consumption of low-potency hemp
products that are ingestible as a beverage or as a product to be eaten provided
the event follows the requirements for such on-site consumption set forth in
M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from time to time.
   (H)   A temporary cannabis event may occur on any property eligible under
this section, whether such property is occupied by another principal use and/or
building, or such property is vacant.
(Ord. 835, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
112.   BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
115.   CABLE SERVICE
      
116.   SIDEWALK CAFÉS
      
117.   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISES AND MASSAGE THERAPISTS
      118.   CANNABIS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
Beer
   
110.001   Provisions of state law adopted
   
110.002   License required
   
110.003   Applications for license
   
110.004   License fees
   
110.005   Granting of license
   
110.006   Persons ineligible for license
   
110.007   Places ineligible for license
   
110.008   Conditions of license
   
110.009   Days and hours of sales
   
110.010   Clubs
   
110.011   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.012   Revocation
   
110.013   Brew pub, brewer taprooms, or microdistillery license
Liquor
   
110.025   Provisions of state law adopted
   
110.026   License required
   
110.027   Application for license
   
110.028   License fees
   
110.029   Granting of licenses
   
110.030   Persons ineligible for license
   
110.031   Places ineligible for license
   
110.032   Conditions of license
   
110.033   Days and hours of sales
   
110.034   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
110.035   Revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
110.050   Dispensary established; places to drink
   
110.051   Location and operation
   
110.052   Hours of operation
   
110.053   Regulations
   
110.054   Enforcement
Liquor by the Drink
   
110.070   License required
   
110.071   Application for license
   
110.072   License fees
   
110.073   Conditions of license
   
110.074   Days and hours of sale
   
110.075   Special provisions: sports, conventions, or cultural facilities;
community festivals
“On-Sale” Wine License
   
110.090   Provisions of state law adopted
   
110.091   Wine licenses
   
110.092   License required for on-sale of wine
   
110.093   Application for license
   
110.094   License fees
   
110.095   Granting of licenses
   
110.096   Persons ineligible for license
   
110.097   Places ineligible for license
   
110.098   Conditions of license
   
110.099   Days and hours of sale
   
110.100   Combination wine/3.2% malt liquor on-sale option
   
110.101   Suspension and revocation
 
   
110.999   Penalty
BEER
§ 110.001 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, applications for license, granting
of license, conditions of license, restrictions on consumption, provisions on
sales pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of non-
intoxicating liquor are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if
fully set out herein except as modified herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except wholesalers and manufacturers to the extent
authorized by law, shall deal in or dispose of by gift, sale, or otherwise, or
keep or offer for sale any beer within the city without first having received a
license as hereinafter provided. Licenses shall be of two kinds:
      (1)   Retail “on-sale”; and
      (2)   Retail “off-sale”.
   (B)   “On-sale” license shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, beer
stores, restaurants, theaters, and hotels where food is prepared and served for
consumption on the premises. “On-sale” licenses shall permit the sale of beer
for consumption on the premises only.
   (C)   “Off-sale” licenses shall permit the sale of beer at retail in the
original package for consumption off the premises only.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.003 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell beer shall be made on a
form supplied by the city and shall state the name of the applicant, his or her
age, representations as to his or her character with such references as may be
required, his or her citizenship, whether the application is for “on-sale” or
“off-sale”, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, whether applicant is owner and operator of the
business, how long he or she has been in that business at that place, and other
information as the City Council may require from time to time. It shall be
unlawful to make any false statement in an application. Applications shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. The liability insurance policy filed as
proof of financial responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this chapter, without having on file with the
city at all times effective proof of financial responsibility, is a cause for
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.004 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the city for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any
application for a license, the city shall refund the amount paid. All licenses
shall expire on the last day of June in each year. Each license shall be issued
for a period of one year, except that if a portion of the license year has
elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the remainder
of the year for a pro-rata fee.
   (B)   The annual fee for an “on-sale” license shall be in the fee schedule
ordinance adopted by the City Council. The annual fee for an “on-sale” extended
hours license shall be set forth by the state. The annual fee for an “off-sale”
license shall be on a fee schedule adopted by the Council.
   (C)   No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this subchapter
shall be refunded where a license is revoked, but there shall be refunded a
pro-rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the license upon
cancellation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 36
§ 110.005 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application. After the investigation, the Council shall grant or refuse the
application in its discretion.
   (B)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder.
   (C)   Each license shall be issued only for the premises described in the
application. No license may be transferred to another place without the
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 110.006 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person:
   (A)   Under 21 years of age, or as stipulated in state statutes;
   (B)   Who has been convicted of a felony or any law of the state or local
ordinance relating to the manufacture or transportation of intoxicating
liquors;
   (C)   Who is a manufacturer of beer or who is interested in the control of
any place where beer is manufactured;
   (D)   Who is not of good moral character;
   (E)   Who is or during the period of this license becomes the holder of a
federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating
liquor at any place unless there has also been issued to him or her a local
license to sell intoxicating liquor at such place;
   (F)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license
is issued; or
   (G)   Who is not resident of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 575, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 110.007 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for sale on any premises where a licensee
has been convicted of the violation of this subchapter, or of the state beer or
liquor law, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause until one
year has elapsed after the conviction of revocation.
   (B)   No “on-sale” license shall be granted for any place within 1,000 feet
of any public school or within 1,000 feet of any church.
   (C)   No “off-sale” license for non-intoxicating liquors shall be granted
for any premises except those that operate primarily in the sale of food, beer,
cigars, cigarettes, beverage, and soft drinks.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 17, passed 9-9-1976)
§ 110.008 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license is subject to the conditions in the following divisions and
all other provisions of this subchapter, and of other applicable ordinance,
state law, or regulation.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable provisions in this code.
   (B)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (C)   No beer shall be sold or served to any intoxicated person or to any
person under 21 years of age, or as stipulated in state statutes.
   (D)   No minor under 18 shall be permitted to sell or serve beer in an “on-
sale” establishment.
   (E)   No gambling or any gambling device shall be permitted on any licensed
premises.
   (F)   No manufacturer for wholesaler of beer shall have any ownership of or
interest in an establishment licensed to sell at retail contrary to the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.403, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
No retail license and manufacturer or wholesaler of beer shall be parties to
any exclusive purchase contract. No retail licensee shall receive any benefits
contrary to law from a manufacturer or wholesaler of beer, and no manufacturer
or wholesaler shall confer any benefits contrary to law upon a retail licensee.
   (G)   No licensee shall sell beer while holding or exhibiting in the
licensed premises a federal retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp unless he
or she is licensed under the laws of the state to sell intoxicating liquors.
   (H)   No licensee who is not also licensed to sell intoxicating liquor shall
sell or permit the consumption or display of intoxicating liquors on the
licensed premises or service any liquids for the purpose of mixing with
intoxicating liquor. The presence of intoxicating liquors on the premises of a
licensee shall be prima facie evidence of possession of intoxicating liquors
for the purpose of sale; and the serving of any liquor for the purpose of
mixing with intoxicating liquors shall be prima facie evidence that
intoxicating liquor is being permitted to be consumed or displayed contrary to
this subchapter.
   (I)   Any peace officer shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect,
and search the premises of a licensee during business hours without a search
and seizure warrant and may seize all intoxicating liquors found on the
licensed premises.
   (J)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of the place of
business and shall maintain conditions of sobriety and order.
   (K)   Every licensee shall be prohibited from conducting business on the
premises from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive. Presence
of customers on the premises is not permitted between the hours of 2:30 a.m. to
6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive.
   (L)   All license holders may be subject to alcohol compliance checks. Civil
penalties for failing a compliance check and providing alcohol to minors are
assessed as follows:
      (1)   First violation: amount as stated in the current fee schedule;
      (2)   Second violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule; and
      (3)   Third violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule (with no mandatory revocation of license).
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 512, passed 4-12-2010;
Ord. 575, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 584, passed 5-28-2013) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.009 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES.
   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours. No sale of
3.2% malt liquor may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of
Monday through Saturday inclusive, nor between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
Sundays. An establishment serving 3.2% malt liquor on Sundays must obtain a
Sunday license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 143, passed 10-22-1984; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003;
Ord. 512, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 625, passed 9-28-2015)
§ 110.010 CLUBS.
   No club shall sell beer except to members and to guests in the company of
members.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-10) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.011 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining beer.
   (B)   No person shall induce a minor to purchase or procure beer.
   (C)   No minor shall have beer in his or her possession with the intent to
consume it at a place other than the household of his or her parent or
guardian.
   (D)   No person shall consume or display any intoxicating liquor on the
premises of a licensee who is not also licensed to sell intoxicating liquors.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-11) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.012 REVOCATION.
   A license granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall be suspended
or revoked by the City Council for the following reasons.
   (A)   In the event the licensee is convicted of a violation of this
subchapter or any state law relating to the sale or consumption of 3.2% malt
liquor, his or her license shall be suspended for a period of five days upon
the first conviction.
   (B)   In the event the license holder is convicted a second time, his or her
license shall be suspended for a period of 30 days.
   (C)   In the event the license holder shall be convicted for a third time,
his or her license shall be revoked.
   (D)   The violation of any provision or condition of this subchapter by a
beer licensee or his or her agent shall be grounds for revocation or suspension
of the license. The license of any person who holds a federal retail liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp without a license to sell intoxicating liquors at
such place shall be revoked without notice and without hearing. In all other
cases, a license granted under this subchapter may be revoked or suspended by
the City Council after written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The
notice shall give at least eight days’ notice of the time and place of the
hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The
Council may suspend any license pending a hearing on revocation or suspension.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-12)
§ 110.013 BREW PUB, BREWER TAPROOMS, OR MICRODISTILLERY LICENSE.
   A brew pub, brewer taproom, or microdistillery as defined and made eligible
under state law may be issued “on-sale” and “off-sale” license subject to the
terms and conditions established by state law and this code, and to any
limitations imposed by the City Council. The license issued by the city must
specify whether off-sale is permitted, the hours of operation, whether Sunday
sales are permitted, and other conditions. The fees established by ordinance
may reflect various license options authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-13) (Ord. 625, passed 9-28-2015)
LIQUOR
§ 110.025 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, applications for license, granting
of license, conditions of license, restrictions on consumption, provisions on
sales, conditions of bonds of licenses, hours of sale, and all other matters
pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of intoxicating
liquor are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set
out herein, except as modified herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 110.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person except wholesalers or manufacturers to the extent authorized
under state license shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell, or keep for
sale any intoxicating liquor without first having received a license to do so
as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Licenses shall be of three kinds:
      (1)   “On-sale” license;
      (2)   “Off-sale” license; and
      (3)   Club licenses.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.027 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell liquor shall be verified
and filed with the City Clerk. It shall have stated the name of the applicant,
age with references as may be required, citizenship, whether the application is
for an “on-sale” or “off-sale”, the business in connection with which the
proposed license shall operate and its location, whether applicant is owner and
operator of the business, how long that business has been at that place, and
other information as the City Council may require. In addition to containing
such information, each application for a license shall be in the form
prescribed by the Department of Public Safety and the city. Each application
for a license hereunder shall be accompanied by a cashier’s check in the amount
adopted by the Council which shall not be subject to refund and shall be paid
for the purpose of defraying the expense of investigation of the applicant.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. The liability insurance policy filed as
proof of financial responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city
at all times effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 162, passed 6-27-1988;
Ord. 191, passed 5-1-1990)
§ 110.028 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the city for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city. Upon rejection of any
application for license, the city shall refund the amount paid.
   (B)   Licenses herein provided for shall expire June 30 following the
issuance thereof and if issued for less than one year shall be pro-rated on a
quarterly basis.
   (C)   The annual fee for an “on-sale” license shall be adopted by the City
Council except as stated in division (D) below. The annual fee for a special
club license shall be a fee schedule adopted by the Council. The annual fee for
an extended hours license shall be set forth by the state.
   (D)   Licenses in effect before annexation in the annexed area will be
brought up to present fee at increase of $250 per year.
   (E)   No refund of any fee shall be permitted except as authorized under
M.S. § 340A.408, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 110.029 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
After the investigation, the Council shall grant or refuse the application in
its discretion. Each license shall be issued to the applicant only. Each
license shall be issued only for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or to another place without the
approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 110.030 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to or held by any person made ineligible for a
license by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 110.031 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No “on-sale” license shall be granted to any person who does not have
invested or does not propose to invest in the fixtures and structure of the
proposed on-sale establishment, exclusive of land, an amount of at least
$200,000. The City Council may provide for an independent appraisal at
applicant’s expense as an aid in determining the value of the premises. In the
event this requirement as to investment is not complied with within one year
from the date of issuance of the license, the license may be revoked.
   (B)   No “on-sale” license shall be granted to a restaurant that does not
meet the following minimum standards as determined by the City Council.
      (1)   The restaurant shall have seating capacity for at least 50 guests
in its formal dining area.
      (2)   The restaurant shall have a full-service menu available with meals
prepared on site within a state’s Department of Health licensed commercial
kitchen each day the establishment is open for business.
      (3)   All meals shall be regularly served at tables to the general public
and shall employ an adequate staff to provide the usual and suitable services
to its guests.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 94, passed 3-9-1981; Ord. 319, passed 10-26-1998;
Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 453, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 110.032 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the following
divisions and all other provisions of this subchapter, and of any other
applicable provisions of this code or state law.
   (A)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it.
   (B)   Any peace officer, health officer, or any properly designated officer
or employee of the city shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect, and
search the premises of the licensee during business hours without a warrant.
   (C)   Every licensee shall be prohibited from conducting business on the
premises from 2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive. Presence
of customers on the premises is not permitted between the hours of 2:30 a.m. to
6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive.
   (D)   All real estate taxes assessed against the licensed premises and all
personal property taxes assessed against any personal property located in, on,
or upon the licensed premises shall be paid or caused to be paid when due by
the licensee, provided, however, that in the event the licensee and/or the
owner of the licensed premises shall duly contest the validity and/or amount of
any real estate or personal property tax according to law, the tax need not be
paid until 30 days after the final judicial determination of the validity and/
or amount of the tax.
   (E)   No license shall be issued for premises located in an area wherein the
use of the premises is prohibited by the zoning code, nor within an area where
the sales are forbidden by state law or any other ordinance of the city.
   (F)   One-half of all additional “on-sale” liquor licenses available for
issuance by the city shall be reserved for issuance to qualifying hotels,
motels, or restaurants within the Central Community District (CCD) as defined
by the official zoning map.
   (G)   All license holders may be subject to alcohol compliance checks
conducted under a resolution adopted by City Council in 2005. This agreement
sets civil penalties for failing a compliance check and providing alcohol to
minors. Liquor administrative fines are assessed as follows:
      (1)   First violation: amount as stated in the current fee schedule;
      (2)   Second violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule; and
      (3)   Third violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule (without mandatory revocation of license).
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) (Ord. 275, passed 8-14-1995; Ord. 319, passed 10-26-1998;
Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 513, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 575, passed 3-11-
2013; Ord. 584, passed 5-28-2013)
§ 110.033 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours.
   (B)   No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday
inclusive, or between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Sundays. Sales after 2:00 a.m.
on Sunday are unlawful unless the establishment has obtained a Sunday liquor
license in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 513, passed 4-12-2010; Ord. 625, passed 9-28-2015)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.034 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   No person shall induce a minor to purchase or procure liquor.
   (C)   No liquor shall be sold or consumed on a public highway or in an
automobile.
   (D)   No person shall consume any intoxicating liquor on any public land in
the city except by special permit granted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10) (Ord. 513, passed 4-12-2010) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.035 REVOCATION.
   The City Council may suspend or revoke any liquor license for violation of
any provision or condition of the provisions hereof or any state law regulating
the sale of intoxicating liquor or any false statement in the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 110.050 DISPENSARY ESTABLISHED: PLACES TO DRINK.
   There is hereby established a municipal liquor dispensary for the off-sale
of intoxicating liquor. No liquor may be sold off-sale at retail elsewhere in
the city, unless otherwise authorized in this subchapter. No person shall
consume liquor in a public park or on a public street.
§ 110.051 LOCATION AND OPERATION.
   (A)   Location and employees. A municipal liquor dispensary shall be at such
place at the City Council shall determine and may be either leased or owned by
the city. It shall be in the charge of a person known as the manager, who shall
have such assistants as may be necessary. All employees, including the manager,
shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person under the
age of 18 shall be employed in the store.
   (B)   Dispensary Fund. A Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created into which
all revenues received from the operation of the dispensary shall be paid and
from which all operating expenses shall be paid. Any surplus accumulating in
this Fund may, from time to time, be transferred to the General Fund by
resolution of the City Council and expended for any municipal purpose.
§ 110.052 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council may, by
ordinance or resolution, provide for more restrictive hours. The dispensary
shall not be open for business of any kind during the hours when sales of
intoxicating liquor are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 143, passed 10-22-1984; Ord. 177, passed 6-26-1989;
Ord. 668, passed 6-12-2017)
§ 110.053 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No business other than the sale of liquor shall be carried on in the
dispensary except the retail sale of cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco,
beer, and soft drinks, both on-sale and off-sale.
   (B)   No pool or billiard table shall be kept in any part of the dispensary.
   (C)   No person shall gamble on the premises and no gambling of any
character shall be permitted thereon.
   (D)   No minor shall be permitted to remain on the dispensary premises.
   (E)   No liquor or beer shall be sold or served to a minor directly or
indirectly.
   (F)   No minor shall misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
obtaining liquor or beer.
   (G)   No liquor or beer shall be served or sold to an intoxicated person.
   (H)   No person of known immoral character and no disorderly person shall be
permitted on the dispensary premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.054 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter and to search the premises and seize evidence of
law violation and preserve the same as evidence against any person alleged to
be in violation of this subchapter and to prepare the necessary processes and
papers therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
LIQUOR BY THE DRINK
§ 110.070 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any private club or public place, directly or
indirectly, or upon any pretense, or by any device, to allow the consumption or
display of intoxicating liquor or the serving of any liquor for the purpose of
mixing with intoxicating liquor without first having obtained a permit therefor
from the Department of Public Safety as provided in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, and a license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.071 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license under this subchapter shall be
made on a form supplied by the city and shall state the name of the applicant,
his or her age, representations as to his or her character, with such reference
as may be required, his or her citizenship, the business in connection with
which the proposed license will operate and its location, whether applicant is
owner or operator of the business, how long he or she has been in that business
at that place, and other information that the City Council may require from
time to time. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement in an
application. Applications shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. The liability insurance policy filed as
proof of financial responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S.
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city
at all times effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.072 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   An application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the City Clerk for payment in full of the required fee for the license. Upon
rejection of any application for license, the Clerk shall refund the amount
paid less $25, which shall be retained as a handling charge for the
application.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of June in each year. Each
license shall be issued for a period of one year, except if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued
for the remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee. In computing the fee, any
unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
   (C)   The annual fee for the license shall be a fee schedule adopted by the
City Council. The annual fee for an extended hours license shall be as set
forth by the state.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the City Council may, upon
proper application as stipulated in §
110.071, issue a permit for the display and consumption of intoxicating liquor
and the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating
liquor for a period of one day. No more than five permits may be issued in a
single year. No more than two permits shall be issued to the same organization
or an affiliate in a single year. The fee for the permit shall be set from time
to time by the Council but shall not exceed $25. All permits issued under this
provision shall be approved by the state’s Department of Public Safety. The
permit issued pursuant to this section shall be valid only for the day
indicated on it.
   (E)   Applicants receiving authorization under §
110.073 to be a liquor provider at the community center shall pay a fee to the
city as set by City Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981; Ord. 116, passed 6-28-1982;
Ord. 332, passed 9-13-1999; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 110.073 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall not conduct business on the premises between the hours
of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive. Presence of
customers on the event premises is not permitted between the hours of 2:30 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003; Ord. 575, passed 3-11-2013)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.074 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours.
   (B)   No sale of intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premises may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday inclusive. No sale of intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption
on the licensed premises may be made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
Sundays. Sales after 2:00 a.m. on Sunday are unlawful unless the liquor license
holder has obtained a Sunday liquor license in accordance with state law.
   (C)   No establishment licensed under M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended
from time to time, or §
110.072(D) may permit a person to consume or display intoxicating liquor, and
no person may consume or display intoxicating liquor between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m. on Monday through Saturday inclusive, and between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon
on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 575, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 625, passed 9-28-2015)
Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.075 SPECIAL PROVISIONS: SPORTS, CONVENTIONS, OR CULTURAL FACILITIES;
COMMUNITY FESTIVALS.
   (A)   Distributing liquor at public gatherings. The city may authorize the
holder of a retail “on-sale” intoxicating liquor license issued by the city or
by an adjacent municipality to dispense intoxicating liquor at any convention,
banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted in the community
center. The licensee (liquor provider) must be engaged to dispense intoxicating
liquor at the event held by a person or organization permitted to use the
premises and may dispense intoxicating liquor only to any person attending the
event. The licensee may not dispense intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in an amateur athletic event held on the premises.
   (B)   Community center liquor provider authorization. Authority to be a
liquor provider will be granted by the City Council on an annual basis, term to
run January 1 to December 31. The Community Center Director will accept
applications, screen, and make the formal request for authorization to the
Council. Applications for authorization to become a liquor provider will be
accepted throughout the year, but will require a six to eight week waiting
period for approval. If approved, the term will expire at the end of the
calendar year, December 31.
   (C)   Termination of liquor provider authorization. The City Administrator
may suspend or terminate the license of a liquor provider for conducting
illegal operations, for maintaining insufficient insurance coverage, for loss
or suspension of its retail liquor license, and for violating the policies set
forth in the city’s Community Center Policy Manual. The liquor provider may
appeal any suspension or termination to the City Council within ten days after
receipt of notice of suspension termination. The appeal shall be served on the
City Administrator and the Council shall commence a hearing within 21 days
after receipt of the notice of appeal.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 332, passed 9-13-1999)
“ON-SALE” WINE LICENSE
§ 110.090 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-1)
§ 110.091 WINE LICENSES.
   An “on-sale” wine license authorizes the sale of wine not exceeding 14%
alcohol by volume for consumption on the licensed premises only in conjunction
with the sale of food. An “on-sale” wine license may be issued only to a
restaurant having facilities for seating not fewer than 25 guests at one time.
For purposes of this subchapter, a RESTAURANT means an establishment under the
control of a single proprietor or manager having appropriate facilities for
serving meals and where, in consideration of payment therefor, meals are
regularly served at tables to the general public, and which employs an adequate
staff to provide the usual and suitable service to its guests.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-2)
§ 110.092 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR ON-SALE OF WINE.
   No person shall sell any wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume by the
glass without an “on-sale” wine license as provided herein or an “on-sale”
intoxicating liquor license as provided in §§
110.025 through
110.035.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-3) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.093 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for “on-sale” wine license shall state the
name of the applicant, age, representations as to character with such
references as the City Council may require, citizenship, the restaurant in
connection with which the proposed licensee will operate and its location,
whether the applicant is owner and operator of the restaurant, how long the
restaurant business has been at that place, and other information as the
Council may require from time to time. In addition to containing the
information, the application shall be in a form prescribed by the Liquor
Control Director and shall be verified and filed with the City Clerk. No person
shall make a false statement in an application.
   (B)   Liability insurance. Prior to the issuance of a wine license, the
applicant shall file with the City Clerk a liability insurance policy in the
amount of $50,000 coverage for bodily injury for one person in any one
occurrence; $100,000 coverage for bodily injury for two or more persons in any
one occurrence; $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of others in any
one occurrence; $50,000 for loss of means of support of any one person in any
one occurrence; and $100,000 for loss of means of support of two or more
persons in any one occurrence; and shall comply with the provisions of M.S. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, relating to liability
insurance policies.
   (C)   Approval of security. The security offered under division (B) above
shall be approved by the City Council and the State Liquor Control Director.
Surety bonds and liability insurance policies shall be approved as to form by
the City Attorney. Operation of a licensed business without having on file with
the city at all times effective security as required in division (B) above is a
cause for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-4) (Ord. 369, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 110.094 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Amount. The annual fee for a wine license shall be in the amount duly
established by the Council from time to time. The annual fee for an extended
license shall be as set forth by the state.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a wine license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Clerk for payment in full of the license fee. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is
rejected, the Clerk shall refund the amount due.
   (C)   Term. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year. Every
license shall expire on June 30.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-5) (Ord. 394, passed 7-28-2003)
§ 110.095 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. After the investigation, the Council shall,
in its discretion, grant or refuse the application. No wine license shall
become effective until it, together with the security furnished by the
applicant, has been approved by the State Liquor Control Director.
   (B)   Persons and premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer of
the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval is a ground
for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-6) (Ord. 394, passed 7-14-2003)
§ 110.096 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No wine license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for a license
by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-7)
§ 110.097 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No wine license shall be issued for any
restaurant ineligible for a license under state law.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-8) (Ord. 369, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 110.098 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this subchapter, and of other
applicable ordinance, state law, or regulation.
   (B)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of the place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in
it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to sell
intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the
licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and the
law equally with the employee.
   (C)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
   (D)   Display during prohibited hours. No licensee shall display wine to the
public during hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
   (E)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
   (F)   Compliance checks. All license holders may be subject to alcohol
compliance checks. This agreement sets civil penalties for failing a compliance
check and providing alcohol to minors. Liquor administrative fines are assessed
as follows:
      (1)   First violation: amount as stated in the current fee schedule;
      (2)   Second violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule; and
      (3)   Third violation within two years: amount as stated in the current
fee schedule (without mandatory revocation of license).
(Prior Code, § 3-11-9) (Ord. 584, passed 5-28-2013) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.099 DAYS AND HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   No sale of wine under this license shall be made on the premises
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday
inclusive, or on any Sunday between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   The presence of customers is not allowed on the premises between the
hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through Sunday inclusive.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-10) (Ord. 369, passed 1-28-2002; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-
2003; Ord. 575, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 625, passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.100 COMBINATION WINE/3.2% MALT LIQUOR ON-SALE OPTION.
   (A)   Provided that an applicant meets or exceeds the requirements of this
subchapter and the requirements of §§
110.001 through
110.013, which pertain to 3.2% malt liquor on-sale, the applicant may apply for
a single license authorizing the sale and consumption of wine not to exceed 14%
alcohol by volume and beer not to exceed 3.2% alcohol by volume. (Intoxicating
malt liquor may be sold on premises holding both a 3.2% malt liquor “on-sale”
license and a wine license.)
   (B)   Fees for the combination license shall be according to a fee schedule
adopted by the City Council. The annual fee for an extended hours combination
license shall be in an amount established by the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-11) (Ord. 369, passed 1-28-2002; Ord. 394, passed 7-14-
2003)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Chapter 36
§ 110.101 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The City Council may either suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any
“on-sale” wine license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance relating to intoxicating
liquor, or any of the provisions of this subchapter. No suspension or
revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 through 14.62 and 14.69, as
they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-12)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any employee of the dispensary willfully violating any provision
hereof or any provision of the state laws relating to gambling or the sale of
intoxicating liquor or beer shall be discharged.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
   (C) Any person violating any provision of §§
110.090 through
110.101 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-13)
(Ord. 128, passed 11-4-1983; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License or registration required
   
111.04   Application for license
   
111.05   Registration required for solicitors
   
111.06   Conditions of licensing; separate licenses and registration
   
111.07   Licensing and registration exemptions
   
111.08   License fees
   
111.09   Ineligibility for license
   
111.10   Prohibited activities
   
111.11   Identification required
   
111.12   Suspension or revocation of license or registration
   
111.13   Misdemeanor violation; administrative enforcement
   
111.14   Severability
Pawn Shops
   
111.25   Purpose
   
111.26   Definitions
   
111.27   License required
   
111.28   Application required
   
111.29   Application execution
   
111.30   Persons ineligible for a license
   
111.31   License fees
   
111.32   Bond required
   
111.33   Records required
   
111.34   Daily reports to police
   
111.35   Receipt required
   
111.36   Redemption period
   
111.37   Holding period
   
111.38   Police order to hold property
   
111.39   Inspection of items
   
111.40   Label required
   
111.41   Prohibited acts
   
111.42   Denial, suspension, or revocation
   
111.43   Business at only one place
 
   
111.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is not intended to interfere with legitimate business
activities of peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants as the same are
herein defined, whether same be local or interstate. These provisions are
intended only to, as nearly as possible, ferret out the illegitimate or
confidence operators and to regulate and control all those who would use their
unique presence on property within the city, for purposes of harassment,
nuisance, theft, or other unlawful activities.
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes door to door, street to street, or place to
place, to offer or display for sale, and delivering immediately upon sale,
goods, wares, merchandise, or services transported with that person.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who, for solely commercial sales purposes, goes door
to door, street to street, or place to place, to obtain or attempt to obtain
orders for goods, wares, merchandise, or services as shown or described by
sample, catalog, or some other form, for which delivery or performance will
occur at a later time.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person, who engages in, or transacts any temporary
and transient business in the city, selling goods, wares, or merchandise; and,
who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires, leases, occupies, or
uses a building, structure, vacant or occupied lot, or railroad car for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares, and merchandise. The term TRANSIENT
MERCHANT does not include a seller or exhibitor in a firearms collector show
involving two or more sellers or exhibitors.
§ 111.03 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business as a peddler or
transient merchant the city without first obtaining a license therefor from the
city. A license must be applied for at least ten days prior to the date when
the activity to be carried on is to commence. The applicant shall completely
fill out an application for a license as prepared by the city and pay the
applicable license fee per the fee schedule ordinance. For peddler permit
application, a background investigation will be required with fee prescribed
per the fee schedule ordinance.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Application for a license shall be made on a form
provided by the city. All applications shall be signed by the applicant. Any
fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement on the application shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter. All applications shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Name and driver’s license number or other acceptable identification
of the person registering, including recent passport style photograph of
applicant;
      (2)   Full address of the applicant’s permanent residence;
      (3)   Telephone number of the applicant’s permanent residence;
      (4)   Full legal name of any and all business operation(s) owned,
managed, or operated by the applicant, or for which the applicant is an
employee or agent;
      (5)   Full address of the applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (6)   Any and all business related telephone number(s) of the applicant;
      (7)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (8)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business
and the number of days he or she will be conducting business in the city;
      (9)   Any and all address(es) and telephone number(s) where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (10)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor, for violation of any state or
federal statute or any local ordinance, other than traffic offenses;
      (11)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (12)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (13)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (14)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (15)   A list of all individuals to be covered by a group license;
      (16)   Source of items sold and the item’s location at the time of
licensing and time of sale;
      (17)   License plate and registration information for any vehicle to be
used in conjunction with the licensed business and a description of the
vehicle;
      (18)   Proof of any required state or county license for transient
merchant activities (not applicable to door to door solicitations); and
      (19)   Written consent authorizing the city to request a criminal history
background investigation for peddler permits in accordance with this code.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An application shall be determined to be complete only if all
required information is provided. If the city determines that an application is
incomplete, it shall inform the applicant of the information required to be
provided prior to issuance of a license.
      (2)   The city shall review the application and order any investigation,
including background investigations, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application.
      (3)   The city shall either approve or deny the license within  five
business days after receipt of a complete application.
      (4)   If the application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in
writing of the decision, the reason for the denial, and the applicant’s right
to appeal the denial by requesting, within seven days of the date of the
denial, to be heard by the City Administrator, other designated staff or a
Hearing Officer appointed by the City Council within 30 days of the date of the
request.
      (5)   A license granted under this subchapter shall be valid until the
date noted on the application.
§ 111.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR SOLICITORS.
   (A)   All solicitors shall be required to register with the city prior to
engaging in activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required
for a license application but no fee shall be required. Upon completion of the
registration form, the city shall issue to the registrant a certificate of
registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall
be non-transferrable.
   (B)   All solicitors must carry proof of registration and photo
identification in such a manner that the information is readily, continuously,
and clearly visible.
   (C)   Individual and exempt organizations engaging in non-commercial door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register or obtain a certificate of
registration.
§ 111.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING; SEPARATE LICENSES AND REGISTRATION.
   Each individual engaged as a peddler or person accompanying a licensee at
work must secure a separate license. Each individual engaged as a solicitor or
person accompanying a solicitor at work must separately register with the city.
Licenses and registration are non-transferable. Proof of license or
registration shall be displayed at all times.
§ 111.07 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION EXEMPTIONS.
   The licensing and registration requirements of this subchapter shall not
apply to:
   (A)   Any person selling or attempting to sell, or to take or attempt to
take orders for, any product grown, produced, cultivated, or raised on any farm
or garden within the city. Such person must comply with the city’s zoning
ordinance and other applicable ordinances;
   (B)   Persons exercising that person’s state or federal constitutional
rights, except if that person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely
incidental to a commercial activity;
   (C)   Daily newspaper sales;
   (D)   Persons selling personal property at wholesale to retailers; and/or
   (E)   Merchants or their employees or agents delivering goods in the regular
course of business.
§ 111.08 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees for peddler permits and transient merchant license shall be
determined by the City Council and listed in the fee schedule ordinance.
§ 111.09 INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license or registration under
this subchapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant for any violation of any federal or
state statute or regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely
reflects on the person’s ability to conduct the business for which the license
is being sought in an honest and legal manner that will not adversely affect
the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city. Such violations
shall include, but not be limited to, burglary, theft, larceny, swindling,
fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of actual or threatened
physical harm against another person; or
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant.
§ 111.10 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (B)   Conducting business in such a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, or welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (C)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration and identification
when requested or using the license or registration of another person;
   (D)   Failing to display the certificate of registration or licensure
provided by the city;
   (E)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (F)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive;
   (G)   Entering upon any premises or attempting to enter in or upon any
premises wherein a sign or placard bearing the notice “peddlers or solicitors
prohibited” or language similar thereto, is located;
   (H)   Selling or soliciting sales by transient merchants from public
property or right-of-way or from private property unless he or she owns the
property or has written permission from the owner; and
   (I)   Entering upon any residential premises for the purpose of carrying on
the licensee’s or registrant’s trade or business between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
and 12:00 p.m. of the following day, unless such person has been invited to do
so by the owner or occupant thereof.
§ 111.11 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   All solicitors, peddlers, and transient merchants must carry their city
issued license or registration certificate when conducting the business or
activity required to be licensed or registered under this subchapter and photo
identification.
§ 111.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Grounds. Any license or registration issued under this subchapter may
be suspended or revoked at the discretion of the city for violation of any of
the following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the license activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under this subchapter;
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this subchapter; or
      (5)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner
as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice required. Prior to revoking or suspending any license or
registration issued under this subchapter, the city shall provide the license
holder or registrant with written notice of the alleged violation(s) and inform
the licensee of the licensee’s right to a hearing on the alleged violation.
Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the permanent residential
address listed on the license application or registration, or if no residential
address is listed, the business address provided on the license application or
registration.
   (C)   Hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (B) above, the
licensee or registrant shall have the right to request a hearing. If no request
for a hearing is received by the city within ten regular business days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular business days of the
hearing, the city shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (D)   Emergency suspension. If, in the discretion of the city, imminent harm
to the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant licensed or registered under this
subchapter, the city may immediately suspend the person’s license or
registration and provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent hearing as
prescribed in division (B) above.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any person whose license or registration is suspended
or revoked under this section shall have the right to appeal that decision in
court.
§ 111.13 MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor or a code
violation subject to administrative enforcement.
(Prior Code § 7-10-12)
§ 111.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter is found to be invalid for any reason by
a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions
shall not be affected.
PAWN SHOPS
§ 111.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that use of services provided by pawnbrokers
provides an opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment
because pawn businesses have the ability to receive and transfer property
stolen by others easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that consumer
protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving pawnbrokers. The
City Council further finds that the pawn industry has outgrown the city’s
current ability to effectively or efficiently identify criminal activity
related to pawn shops. The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent pawn
businesses from being used as facilities for the commission of crimes, and to
assure that the businesses comply with basic consumer protection standards,
thereby protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   To help local law enforcement better regulate current and future pawn
businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the
pawn industry, and increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn
industry through the timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction
information, this subchapter also implements and establishes the required use
of reporting to the system or systems as identified by the Wright County
Sheriff’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-1) (Ord. 738, passed 2-24-2020)
§ 111.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker
except renewals, redemptions, or extensions of existing pawns on items
previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s possession is a billable
transaction.
   PAWNBROKER. A person, partnership, or corporation who lends money on the
security of pledged goods (items that are “left in pawn”), and/or purchases
goods on the condition that they may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller
for a fixed price, within a fixed period of time. To the extent that a
PAWNBROKER’S business includes buying personal property previously used, rented
or leased, or selling it on consignment, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be applicable.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment, or trade; or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended, or redeemed; or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale software,
is reportable except:
      (1)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of the merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which describes each item, and
must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction record;
and
      (2)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-2) (Ord. 542, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 111.27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker at any location without
a pawnbroker license for that location. No pawnbroker license may be
transferred to a different location or a different person. Issuance of a
license under this subchapter shall not relieve the licensee from obtaining any
other licenses required to conduct business at the same or any other location.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-3) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application form provided by the City Clerk must be completed by
every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing license.
   (B)   Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a sole proprietor:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address, and
phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a
certified copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01, as it may be
amended from time to time;
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years;
         (f)   The type, name, and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the preceding five years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all
such convictions; and
         (h)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(g)
above.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (B)(1)
above;
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business; and
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of the certificate must be attached to the application.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business form, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement, and by-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
must be attached; and
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent
required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(g) above.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer, or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer, or secondhand dealer license
from any other governmental unit;
         (c)   The location of the business premises; and
         (d)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority may
require.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-4)
§ 111.29 APPLICATION EXECUTION.
   (A)   All applications for a license under this subchapter must be signed
and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the applicant.
   (B)   If the application is that of a sole proprietor, it must be signed and
sworn to by the person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if
that of a partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an
unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
   (C)   Any falsification on a license application shall result in the denial
of a license.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-5)
§ 111.30 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   No license under this subchapter will be issued to an applicant who is a
sole proprietor, a partnership if the applicant has any general partner or
managing partner, a corporation or other organization if the applicant has any
manager, proprietor, or agent in charge of the business to be licensed, if the
applicant:
   (A)   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed;
   (B)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under this subchapter
as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time; or
   (C)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-6)
§ 111.31 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees for licenses issued under this subchapter
shall be as adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The billable transaction license fee shall reflect the cost of
processing transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determined by
the City Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted periodically. Licensees
shall be notified in writing 30 days before any adjustment is implemented.
   (C)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-7) (Ord. 357, passed 11-27-2000; Ord. 542, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 111.32 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a $5,000 bond
on the forms provided by the licensing authority. All bonds must be conditioned
that the principal will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers, and will
conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the principal will account for
and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which have come into the
principal’s hand through the principal’s business as a pawnbroker, or in lieu
thereof, will pay the reasonable value in money to the person. The bond shall
contain a provision that no bond may be canceled except upon 30 days’ written
notice to the city, which shall be served upon the licensing authority.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-8)
§ 111.33 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals, extensions,
or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English the following
information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in a
computerized record approved by local law enforcement:
   (A)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item;
   (B)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged therefor;
   (C)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
   (D)   Date, time, and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records;
   (E)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth, and accurate description of the person from whom the
item of property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of
eyes, and color of hair;
   (F)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (1)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
      (2)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
      (3)   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state or
province of Canada.
   (G)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
   (H)   (1)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by local law
enforcement of acceptable video standards, the licensee must also take a color
photograph or color video recording of:
         (a)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
         (b)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have an unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
      (2)   If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two inches in length
by two inches in width and must be maintained in a manner that the photograph
can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction
to which they relate. The photographs must be available to the Chief of Police
or the Chief’s designee, upon request. The major portion of the photograph must
include an identifiable front facial close-up of the person who pawned or sold
the item. Items photographed must be accurately depicted. The licensee must
inform the person that he or she is being photographed by displaying a sign of
sufficient size in a conspicuous place in the premises. If a video photograph
is taken, the video camera must zoom in on the person pawning or selling the
item so as to include an identifiable close-up of that person’s face. Items
photographed by video must be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be
electronically referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and
correlated with all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The
licensee must inform the person orally that he or she is being videotaped and
by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises.
The licensee must keep the exposed videotape for three months.
      (3)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by local law
enforcement, licensees must fulfill the color photograph requirements in
division (H) above by submitting them as digital images, in a format specified
by the issuing authority, electronically cross-referenced to the reportable
transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding the digital images may be
captured from required video recordings, this provision does not alter or amend
the requirements in division (H) above.
   (I)   For renewals, extensions, and redemptions, the licensee shall provide
the original transaction identifier, the date of the current transaction and
the type of transaction; and
   (J)   The records must at all reasonable times be open to inspection by
local law enforcement or state regulatory agencies. Data entries shall be
retained for at least three years from the date of transaction. Entries of
required digital images shall be retained a minimum of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-9)
§ 111.34 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   Reporting transactions.
      (1)   Effective no later than 60 days after local law enforcement
provides licensees with computerized record standards, licensees must submit
every reportable transaction to local law enforcement daily in the following
manner.
      (2)   Licensees must provide to local law enforcement all information
required in §
111.33(A) through (F) and other required information by transferring it from
their computer to the automated pawn system via modem. All required records
must be transmitted completely and accurately after the close of business each
day in accordance with standards and procedures established by the issuing
authority. The licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a
conspicuous place in the premises, which informs all patrons that all
transactions are reported to local law enforcement daily.
   (B)   Billable transactions fees. Licensees will be charged for each
billable transaction reported to local law enforcement.
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide local law enforcement printed
copies of all reportable transactions along with the video tape(s) for that
date by 12:00 the next business day.
         (a)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and
is not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure,
the licensee must provide the required reports as detailed in division (B)(1)
above, and must be charged a $50 reporting failure penalty, daily, until the
error is corrected; or
         (b)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s
system, the licensee must provide the required reports in division (B)(1) above
and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is corrected.
      (2)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize, or transmit the
photographs required in §
111.33(H), the licensee must immediately take all required photographs with a
still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct transaction, and
make the pictures available to local law enforcement upon request.
   (C)   Technical problems. Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical
problems that prevented the licensee from uploading his or her reportable
transactions, upon correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every
reportable transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
   (D)   Delay of implementation. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) above
notwithstanding, local law enforcement may, upon presentation of extenuating
circumstances, delay the implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-10)
§ 111.35 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years.
   (B)   The receipt must include at least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the licensed business;
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold or the nature of the
transaction;
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number, and date of birth of the pledger or seller;
      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; or
         (c)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card
issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller including sex, approximate
height, weight, race, color of eyes, and color of hair;
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
      (13)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04 subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable statutes.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-11)
§ 111.36 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   (A)   Any person pledging, pawning, or depositing an item for security must
have a minimum of 60 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item
before it may be forfeited and sold. During the holding period, items may not
be removed from the licensed location except as provided in §
111.43. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other than
the person to whom the receipt was issued or, to any person identified in a
written and notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the
receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the
initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the police
license inspector. Written authorization for release of property to persons
other than original pledger must be maintained along with original transaction
record in accordance with §
111.33(I).
   (B)   Pawnbroker must return goods, or provide compensation for lost or
damaged goods, upon payment of the full amount due, unless:
      (1)   The 60-day redemption period has expired; or
      (2)   The goods have been taken into custody by a court or by a law
enforcement officer or agency.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-12) (Ord. 542, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 111.37 HOLDING PERIOD.
   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee, but not involved in a
pawn transaction, must not be sold or otherwise transferred for 31 days from
the date of the transaction. An individual may redeem an item at any time
during the holding period.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-13) (Ord. 542, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 111.38 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   Whenever a law enforcement official from any agency notifies a licensee not
to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed from the premises. This
initial or investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing within 72 hours and
remains in effect for 15 days from the date of initial notification. Local law
enforcement may, in writing, extend an investigative hold or independently
order an item held for up to 90 days, or order the confiscation of an item
identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal case.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-14) (Ord. 542, passed 1-9-2012)
§ 111.39 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises, in accordance with §
10.20, where the licensed business is located, including all off-site storage
facilities as authorized in §
111.43, during normal business hours, except in an emergency for the purpose of
inspecting the premises and inspecting the items, wares and merchandise and
records therein to verify compliance with this subchapter and other applicable
laws.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-15)
§ 111.40 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensee must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased, or received in inventory from any reportable transaction.
Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies
the transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the
item and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported
to local law enforcement, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out
of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-16)
§ 111.41 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid state
identification card, or current valid photo driver’s license or identification
card issued by the state of residency of the person from whom the item was
received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell,
consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with permission or
without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property in which another person has a security interest; with
any licensee.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name, nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another, to any licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.42 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION.
   Any license under this subchapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked for
one or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with any applicable zoning code;
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance, or other provisions of this code of ordinances or state law;
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this subchapter;
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or bribery in securing or renewing a
license;
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s business;
   (G)   Violation within the preceding five years of any law relating to
theft, damage, or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or
operation of a business; or
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-18)
§ 111.43 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.
   A license under this subchapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the police inspector may approve an off-site
locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall permit inspection of
the facility in accordance with §
111.39. All provisions of this subchapter regarding record keeping and
reporting apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in
compliance with all provisions of the city code. The licensee must either own
the building in which the business is conducted, and any approved off-site
storage facility, or have a lease on the business premises that extends for
more than six months.
(Prior Code, § 3-15-19)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Rental Housing Licensing
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Applicability; scope
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Enforcement Officer
   
112.05   Responsibility of owner (landlord)
   
112.06   General licensing provisions
   
112.07   Inspections
   
112.08   Conduct on licensed premises
   
112.09   Condition of licensed premises
   
112.10   Hearing procedure
   
112.11   Misdemeanor
Mobile Food Units
   
112.25   Purpose
   
112.26   Definition
   
112.27   License applications
   
112.28   Conditions of licensing
   
112.29   Suspension or revocation of a license
Licensing of Adult Use Businesses
   
112.40   License requirements
Eating and Drinking Establishments
   
112.55   Ordinance adopted
Cannabinoid Products
   
112.60   Cannabinoid products
 
   
112.99   Penalty
RENTAL HOUSING LICENSING
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare of the community at large and the residents of rental dwellings in
the city and to ensure that rental housing in the city is decent, safe, and
sanitary and is so operated and maintained as not to become a nuisance to the
neighborhood or to become an influence that fosters blight and deterioration or
creates a disincentive to reinvestment in the community. The operation of
rental residential properties is a business enterprise that entails certain
responsibilities. Owners and operators are responsible to take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to ensure that the citizens of the city who occupy such
units may pursue the quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of life in
surroundings that are: safe, secure, and sanitary; free from noise, nuisances,
or annoyances; and free from unreasonable fears about safety of persons and
security of property.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-1)
§ 112.02 APPLICABILITY; SCOPE.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all existing and new rental dwellings in
the city, including any accessory structures on the premises upon which the
rental dwelling is located, such as garages and storage buildings and
appurtenances, such as sidewalks and retaining walls.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to the state’s Department of Health
licensed rest homes; convalescent care facilities; nursing homes; hotels;
motels; or owner-occupied units.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-2)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Chief Building Official or designated agent.
   CITY. The City of Monticello.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or the City Administrator’s
designated agent.
   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. The International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A rental dwelling containing three or more units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living or sleeping in a rental dwelling unit, or having
possession of a space within a rental dwelling unit.
   OWNER. With respect to all matters involving the making of applications and
the giving of notices, the individuals or entities holding legal and equitable
title to the premises.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land, including the building or
structures thereon.
   RENTAL DWELLING. A building or premises, or portion thereof, containing one
or more units used or intended to be used for residential rental purposes.
   UNIT. A single unit within a rental dwelling providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-3)
§ 112.04 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The city’s Chief Building Official is authorized and directed to enforce all
provisions of this subchapter. The Chief Building Official may designate other
city employees to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-4)
§ 112.05 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER (LANDLORD).
   (A)   Owner responsibility. Every owner of a rental dwelling is responsible
for violations of duties and obligations imposed by this subchapter, applicable
provisions of the city code, and the International Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every owner of a rental dwelling is responsible for
keeping the rental dwelling in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition in
conformance with this subchapter, applicable provisions of the city code and
the International Property Maintenance Code.
   (C)   Disposal of rubbish. Every owner of a rental dwelling shall have all
rubbish, garbage, and waste stored and disposed of in a clean, sanitary, and
safe manner.
   (D)   Obtain license. The owner must obtain a license and pay all license
fees as required by this subchapter before the rental dwelling may be rented.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful to own or operate a rental dwelling
in the city without first having obtained a license from the city. An owner
must obtain a license for each rental dwelling. If the rental dwelling contains
two or more units, and has a common owner and a common property identification
number, the owner shall obtain a single license for the rental dwelling.
   (B)   License application. The owner of a rental dwelling must submit an
application for a license on forms and in the format provided by the city. The
owner must give notice, in writing, to the city within five business days of
any changes to the information contained in the license application. The
application must include:
      (1)   The owner’s name, address, and telephone number, owning partners if
a partnership, corporate officers if a corporation;
      (2)   Legal address of the rental dwelling;
      (3)   The type and number of units within the rental dwelling;
      (4)   The type of structure to be licensed (i.e., single-family, duplex,
multi-family); and
      (5)   Pursuant to M.S. § 270C.72, subd. 4, as it may be amended from time
to time, the owner’s Social Security number and/or state business
identification number.
   (C)   License fees. The owner must pay an annual license fee, the amount of
which will be determined by the City Council. The owner must submit the
required fee along with the application for a new or renewal license.
Applications for a renewal license submitted after December 31 are subject to
an additional late fee, which shall be determined from time to time by the
Council.
   (D)   License period. The license period is for one year and all licenses
shall expire on March 14 in each year.
   (E)   License issuance.
      (1)   Preliminary inspection and investigation. Prior to issuing an
initial license, the Chief Building Official will seek consent from the owner
for an inspection of the rental dwelling and conduct an inspection to determine
compliance with this subchapter, the city code, and the International Property
Maintenance Code. The Chief Building Official will review the application for
completeness. All real estate taxes and municipal utilities must be paid and
current.
      (2)   Compliance order. As to any rental dwelling existing as of the
effective date of this subchapter, if the rental dwelling is not in full
compliance with division (E)(1) above, the city may issue the initial license
and provide the owner with a compliance order pursuant to §
112.09.
   (F)   Posting of license. The owner shall post a copy of the license in the
rental dwelling in a conspicuous place approved by the Building Official. In
multiple-dwelling units requiring a single license, the license shall be posted
in a common area of the building such as a corridor, hallway, or lobby. The
posted license shall be framed and covered with clear glass or plastic.
   (G)   Transfer of license. Licenses are transferable. Any changes in the
ownership of the rental dwelling require submittal of application and payment
of license transfer fee.
   (H)   Register of occupancy. The owner shall keep a current register of
occupancy for each rental dwelling. This register of occupancy may be reviewed
by the city at any time. The register of occupancy shall contain, at a minimum,
the following information:
      (1)   Address(es) of the rental dwelling;
      (2)   Number of bedrooms of each unit;
      (3)   Number of units in each building; and
      (4)   Number of adults and children (under 18) currently occupying each
unit.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-6) (Ord. 611, passed 2-9-2015) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Routine license inspections. No operating license may be issued or
renewed unless the city determines, following an inspection conducted pursuant
to this section, that the dwelling unit complies with this code. The owner of a
dwelling unit shall contact the Chief Building Official or his or her agents to
arrange an inspection at a reasonable time. The Chief Building Official and his
or her agents are authorized to conduct an inspection, provided the owner or
tenant consented to the inspection. A rental dwelling unit, including any
common space areas, must be inspected a minimum of one time every two years.
Nothing shall prohibit the city from requesting additional inspections if
deemed necessary or if requested by a tenant of a rental dwelling unit. The
owner shall notify the tenant or tenants of the time when the city inspection
will be conducted and provide access to the units.
   (B)   Response to complaints. The Chief Building Official shall respond to
complaints of violations of this subchapter. A complaint may be cause for a
complete inspection of a unit or building. If an inspection is to be made, the
Chief Building Official shall notify the owner or tenant of the inspection and
request permission to inspect from the owner or tenant. If the owner or tenant
does not consent, the city may pursue an administrative search warrant to
conduct the inspection, unless a lawful exception to conduct an inspection
without a warrant exists. If there are violations, the Chief Building Official
shall notify the owner or tenant pursuant to §
112.09 to correct the problem which prompted the complaint. The cost of the
inspection shall be paid by the owner if the city’s inspection reveals actual
deficiencies as described by the occupant, and the payment of the cost shall be
a condition of license renewal.
   (C)   Right to refuse entry. The owner, occupant, tenant, or person in
charge of any property or rental unit possesses the right to deny entry to any
unit or property by the Chief Building Official for purposes of compliance with
this subchapter. However, nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the Chief
Building Official from asking permission from an owner, occupant, tenant, or
person in charge of property for permission to inspect the property or rental
unit for compliance with this subchapter and all other applicable laws,
regulations, and codes. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from
seeking a search warrant or from entering a property or rental unit if a lawful
exception to the warrant requirement exists.
   (D)   Scope of inspection.
      (1)   Neither the city nor any employee thereof assumes liability for the
accuracy or quality of any property inspected pursuant to this subchapter at
the request of the owner. The issuance of a rental license shall not be
construed to represent a warranty or guarantee by or on behalf of the city nor
shall the issuance of any certificate, license, or approval be construed to
imply or warrant that a unit or property is: safe or free of any dangers or
hazards to the occupants or general public; free and clear of any violations of
this subchapter or any other laws, regulations, or codes; and free and clear of
any defects.
      (2)   The issuance of any rental license shall not be construed to
represent any warranties or guarantees by or on behalf of the city, nor shall
the issuance of any certificates or approvals be construed to imply that the
property is:
         (a)   Completely safe or free of any dangers or hazards to the
occupants or general public;
         (b)   Completely free and clear of any violations of this subchapter
or any other codes; or
         (c)   Completely free and clear of any defects related to any
structural, fire protection, fire prevention, building utilities, or any other
features of the property.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-7) (Ord. 611, passed 2-9-2015)
§ 112.08 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Owner responsible. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to see
that persons occupying the rental dwelling conduct themselves in a manner as
not to cause the premises to be disorderly. For purposes of this section, a
rental dwelling is disorderly at which any of the following activities occur:
      (1)   Violation of M.S. §§ 609.755 through 609.76, as they may be amended
from time to time, as may be amended from time to time, relating to gambling;
      (2)   Violation of laws relating to prostitution or acts relating to
prostitution as defined in M.S. § 609.321, as it may be amended from time to
time;
      (3)   Violation of M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.027, as may be amended from
time to time, relating to the unlawful sale or possession of controlled
substances;
      (4)   Violation of M.S. §§ 340A.401 and 340A.503, as may be amended from
time to time, relating to the unlawful commercial sale and underage consumption
of alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   Violation of M.S. § 609.33, as may be amended from time to time,
which prohibits owning, leasing, operating, managing, maintaining, or
conducting a disorderly house, or inviting or attempting to invite others to
visit or remain in a disorderly house;
      (6)   Violation of M.S. §§ 97B.021, 97B.045, 609.66 through 609.67,
624.712 through 624.716, 624.719, or 624.731 through 624.732, as may be amended
from time to time, relating to the unlawful possession, transportation, sale,
or use of weapons;
      (7)   Violation of city code or violation of M.S. § 609.72, as may be
amended from time to time, relating to disorderly conduct;
      (8)   Violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06 relating to nuisances.
      (9)   Violation of §§ 95.30 through 95.36 relating to recreational fires.
      (10)   Violation of §§
90.001 through
90.025 and §§
90.040 through
90.049 relating to animal control.
   (B)   First violation. Upon determination by the Chief Building Official
that a licensed premises was used in a disorderly manner, as described in
division (A) above, the Chief Building Official must give notice to the
licensee of the violation and direct the licensee to take steps to prevent
further violations.
   (C)   Second violation. If another instance of disorderly use of the
licensed premises occurs within 12 months of an incident for which a notice in
division (B) above was given, the Chief Building Official must notify the
licensee of the violation and must also require the licensee to submit a
written report of the actions taken, and proposed to be taken, by the licensee
to prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This written report must be
submitted to the Chief Building Official within five days of receipt of the
notice of disorderly use of the premises and must detail all actions taken by
the licensee in response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises
within the preceding three months.
   (D)   Third violation.
      (1)   If another instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises
occurs within 12 months after any two previous instances of disorderly use for
which notices were given to the licensee pursuant to this section, the rental
dwelling license for the premises may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not
renewed. An action to deny, revoke, suspend, or not renew a license under this
section must be initiated by the Chief Building Official who must give to the
licensee written notice of a hearing before the City Council to consider such
denial, revocation, suspension, or non-renewal. The written notice must specify
all violations of this section, and must state the date, time, place, and
purpose of the hearing. The hearing must be held no less than ten days and no
more than 30 days after giving the notice.
      (2)   Following the hearing, the City Council may deny, revoke, suspend,
or decline to renew the license for all or any part or parts of the licensed
premises or may grant a license upon such terms and conditions as it deems
necessary to accomplish the purposes of this section.
   (E)   No adverse action pending eviction. No adverse license action shall be
imposed where the instance of disorderly use of the licensed premises occurred
during the pendency of eviction proceedings (unlawful detainer) or within 30
days of notice given by the licensee to a tenant to vacate the premises where
the disorderly use was related to conduct by that tenant or by other occupants
or guests of the tenant’s unit. Eviction proceedings are not a bar to adverse
license action, however, unless they are diligently pursued by the licensee.
Further, an action to deny, revoke, suspend, or not renew a license based upon
violations of this section may be postponed or discontinued at any time if it
appears that the licensee has taken appropriate measures which will prevent
further instances of disorderly use.
   (F)   Finding of disorderly conduct. A determination that the licensed
premises have been used in a disorderly manner as described in division (A)
above shall be made upon a fair preponderance of the evidence to support such a
determination. It is not necessary that criminal charges be brought in order to
support a determination of disorderly use, nor does the fact of dismissal or
acquittal of a criminal charge operate as a bar to adverse license action under
this section.
   (G)   Service of notices. All notices given by the city under this section,
at the city’s option, may be either personally served on the licensee, sent by
regular mail to the licensee at the address listed on the application, or by
posting on a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Enforcement actions. Enforcement actions provided in this section are
not exclusive, and the City Council may take any action with respect to a
licensee, a tenant, or the licensed premises as is authorized by the city code,
state law, or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-8)
§ 112.09 CONDITION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Compliance order. Whenever the Chief Building Official determines that
the condition of any rental dwelling or the premises surrounding it fails to
meet the provisions of this subchapter, other applicable city code provisions,
or the International Property Maintenance Code, he or she may issue a
compliance order setting forth the specific violations and ordering the owner
to correct the violations.
   (B)   License action. If the violations listed in the compliance order are
not remedied by the owner within the specified time given in the order, the
license for the rental dwelling may be denied, suspended, revoked, or not
renewed by the city. An administrative fine in an amount set forth from time to
time by the City Council by resolution may also be imposed. If the city decides
that it will be denying, suspending, revoking, or not renewing a license or
imposing an administrative fine pursuant to this section, the city shall send a
notice of the proposed action to the owner of the rental dwelling. The proposed
action by the city shall be heard by the Council pursuant to the procedure set
forth in §
112.10.
   (C)   Appeal.
      (1)   When it is alleged by the owner that the compliance order is based
upon the erroneous interpretation of this subchapter, other applicable city
code provisions, or the International Property Maintenance Code, the owner may
appeal the compliance order to the City Council.
      (2)   The appeal shall be in writing, must specify the grounds for the
appeal, must be accompanied by a filing fee, as set forth by resolution of the
City Council, from time to time, and must be filed with the city within five
business days after service of the compliance order. The appeal shall be heard
by the Council pursuant to the procedure set forth in §
112.10.
      (3)   The filing of the appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless a stay would cause imminent peril to life,
health, or property.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-9)
§ 112.10 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Scheduling of hearing. If the city makes a determination that it will
be denying, suspending, revoking, or not renewing a license pursuant to §§
112.08 or
112.09, or if the owner is appealing the compliance order pursuant to §
112.09, the City Council shall conduct a hearing on the matter. The hearing
shall be scheduled at the next regular Council meeting following the date of
the notice or receipt of the owner’s notice of appeal of a compliance order.
   (B)   Hearing. At the hearing, the City Council shall hear all relevant
evidence and arguments and shall review all testimony, documents, and other
evidence submitted. The owner shall have the opportunity to address the Council
at the hearing.
   (C)   Findings. After the hearing is concluded, the City Council shall make
its decision on whether to uphold the compliance order or to revoke, suspend,
deny, or not renew the license or impose an administrative fine.
   (D)   No occupancy. If a license is revoked, suspended, denied, or not
renewed by the City Council, it shall be unlawful for the owner to thereafter
permit the occupancy of the rental dwelling or the unit. A notice of the action
shall be posted by the Building Official on the rental dwelling or the unit in
order to prevent any further occupancy. No person shall reside in, occupy, or
cause to be occupied that rental dwelling or unit until a license is obtained
or reinstated by the owner.
   (E)   Appeal. An owner may appeal the decision of the City Council as
allowed under state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 MISDEMEANOR.
   Failure by an owner to comply with a compliance order after the right of
appeal has expired or violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate punishable offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-16-11) (Ord. 464, passed 7-23-2007)
MOBILE FOOD UNITS
§ 112.25 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is designed to permit the reasonable use of mobile food
units while preventing any adverse consequences to residents, businesses, and
public property.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-1) (Ord. 665, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 112.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle that is readily movable
without disassembling and that is used to store, prepare, display, or serve
food intended for individual portion service; or a MOBILE FOOD UNIT as defined
in M.S. § 157.15, subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-2) (Ord. 665, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 112.27 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Type of license. Each applicant must indicate whether it is applying
for a temporary license or annual license for any number of days in the
calendar year. A temporary license allows mobile food unit operations in the
city for up to seven days total. An annual license allows mobile food unit
operations in the city for eight days or more during any year. A licensee will
only be issued one temporary license per calendar year, however, nothing shall
prohibit a temporary licensee from applying for an annual license within the
same year.
   (B)   License fees. Fees for both temporary and annual licenses are
determined in the city’s fee schedule.
   (C)   Mobile food unit. It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile
food unit in the city without first obtaining a license from the city. An
application for a license shall be filed, along with the required fee, with the
City Clerk. The applicant must be the owner of the mobile food unit. The
application shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain
information requested by the city, including the following:
      (1)   Name of the owner and operator, if different than owner, of the
mobile food unit and permanent and temporary home and business address;
      (2)   The applicant’s full legal name, date of birth, and driver’s
license number;
      (3)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and the license plate number and description for any vehicle to be used in
conjunction with the activity;
      (4)   The permanent and any temporary home and business address, phone
numbers, and email address of the applicant, with a designation of a preferred
mailing address for notices related to the license;
      (5)   The name, address, and contact information for the commissary with
which the mobile food unit is affiliated, if applicable;
      (6)   A certificate of insurance by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, evidencing the following forms of insurance:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If the insurance contains an annual aggregate
limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000.
         (b)   Automobile liability insurance with a limit of not less than
$2,000,000 combined single limit. The insurance shall cover liability arising
out of any auto, including owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles;
         (c)   Food products liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (d)   Public liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (e)   Property damage insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (f)   Worker’s compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence
of exemption from state law; and
         (g)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
certificate of insurance and the umbrella/excess insurance if the applicant
intends to operate its mobile food unit on public property, including public
right-of-way.
      (7)   The certificate of insurance must contain a provision requiring
notification be sent to the city should the policy be cancelled before its
state expiration date;
      (8)   Written consent of each private property owner from which mobile
food unit sales will be conducted;
      (9)   If the mobile food unit will be located on city property or public
right-of-way, a signed statement that the licensee shall hold harmless the city
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the city and its officers
and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which
may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of the license;
      (10)   If applying only for a temporary license, the applicant must
provide the dates and locations for its up to ten days of mobile food unit
operations;
      (11)   A copy of each related license or permit issued by the county and
the state required to operate a mobile food unit; and
      (12)   A copy of the applicant’s state sales tax ID number.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-3) (Ord. 665, passed 5-8-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.28 CONDITIONS OF LICENSING.
   A mobile food unit may only operate as set forth in the following.
   (A)   Locations. A mobile food unit may only operate in the locations set
forth in this division (A). A mobile food unit may operate in a private
commercial or industrial parking lot and on private residential property, with
the written consent of the private property owner. When operations occur on
private residential property, mobile food unit sales may only be for catering
purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding) and not open for sales
to the general public. A mobile food unit may only operate along a public or
private street when the street is closed to all nonemergency vehicles. A mobile
food unit may only operate in a city park or on city property with the prior
written approval by the city; additional permits may be required for such
operations.
   (B)   Performance standards. A mobile food unit licensee is subject to the
following performance standards:
      (1)   A mobile food unit with an annual license may not operate on the
same property more than 21 days during any calendar year;
      (2)   Applicable license fee shall be paid;
      (3)   Shall operate in strict compliance with the laws, rules, and
regulations of the United States, the state, the county, and the city;
      (4)   A mobile food unit must dispose of its gray water daily. Gray water
may not be drained into city stormwater drains;
      (5)   Shall provide and maintain at least one clearly designated waste
container for customer use per each mobile food cart or mobile food vehicle;
      (6)   Operator is responsible for daily removal of trash, litter,
recycling and refuse. Public trash cans shall not be used to dispose of water
generated by the operation. The operator shall provide a garbage receptacle
with a tight-fitting lid. The receptacle shall be easily accessible for
customer use, and located within five feet of the unit;
      (7)   A mobile food unit must provide an independent power supply that is
screened from public view and that complies with city’s noise regulations;
      (8)   Trucks can operate between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and must not
create any unnecessary noise disturbances or disrupt public traffic or safety
in any way. An exemption to hours may be authorized by City Council on a per
event basis;
      (9)   A mobile food unit may have a maximum bumper to bumper length of no
more than 40 feet;
      (10)   Operators must clean around their unit at the end of each day and
units must be kept in good repair and have a neat appearance;
      (11)   Proof of Department of Health licensing must be provided and
posted on unit;
      (12)   A mobile food unit must comply with the Fire Department food truck
requirement (attached as exhibit);
      (13)   An out of service mobile food unit stored within the city must
comply with all applicable zoning ordinance requirements;
      (14)   Mobile food units may operate on private property in any
residential zoned districts for a “one-time” event for catering purposes only;
      (15)   Mobile food units cannot locate within 300 feet from the perimeter
of any pre-approved festival, sporting event, or civic event unless a license
is issued to be part of the festival or event;
      (16)   Mobile food units may not operate within 100 feet from the public
entrance to any restaurant and/or any portion of a restaurant’s outdoor dining
area during that restaurant’s hours of operation unless the licensee obtains
permission from restaurant owner/manager; and
      (17)   Mobile food units may not operate in city-owned parking lots,
except those parking lots adjacent to or inside a city park with the approval
of a special event permit, expect for events hosted by the city’s community
center.
   (C)   License. A mobile food unit license is non-transferable. Proof of
license shall be displayed at all times in the mobile food unit. Mobile food
unit operations may not occur in January, February, March, November, and
December. A mobile food unit license is an annual license.
   (D)   Practices prohibited. It is unlawful for any person engaged in the
business of a mobile food unit operation to do the following:
      (1)   Call attention to that licensee’s business by crying out, blowing a
horn, ringing a bell, loud music, or by any loud or unusual noise, or by use of
any amplifying device;
      (2)   Fail to display proof of license and produce valid identification
when requested;
      (3)   Cannot be left unattended nor remain at an authorized location
outside allowed hours of operation;
      (4)   May not operate or travel in or on public sidewalks or trails;
      (5)   Remain on the property of another when asked to leave;
      (6)   Obstruct the ingress or egress from commercial buildings during the
building hours of operation;
      (7)   Claim endorsements by the city based on license; or
      (8)   Conduct business in any manner as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of a specific individual or the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-4) (Ord. 665, passed 5-8-2017; Ord. 713, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this section may be suspended by a city
official if the licensee has violated §
112.28, or is otherwise conducting business in a manner as to constitute a
breach of peace, fraudulent conduct, or any other conduct that is prohibited by
local, state, or federal laws or regulations. Falsification of information
required for a license is also grounds for denial, suspension, or revocation of
a license. The license shall be automatically revoked if the licensee does not
file an appeal pursuant to this section. When taking action on any license
issued under this section, the city official shall provide the licensee with
verbal or written notice of the violation. The notice shall inform the licensee
of its right to be heard before the City Council. The notice shall also inform
the licensee that the license shall be automatically revoked if no appeal is
filed within 21 days of the date of the notice by the city official. Verbal
notice shall be confirmed within five days by a mailed written notice to the
licensee. The Council shall not conduct a hearing on a suspension or revocation
unless a request is made by the next available Council meeting. No Council
resolution or other notice calling for a hearing shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 3-20-5) (Ord. 665, passed 5-8-2017)
LICENSING OF ADULT USE BUSINESSES
§ 112.40 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirement. No person, firm, partnership, or corporation
shall operate an adult use, either principal or accessory, without having first
secured a license as hereinafter provided. Licenses shall be one of two types:
      (1)   Adult use/accessory; and
      (2)   Adult use/principal.
   (B)   Application. In addition to such information the City Council may
require, the application shall also include:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number, and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number, and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers, and birth dates of all those persons holding more than 5% of the
issued and outstanding stock of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the manager of
the operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The premises where the adult use is to be located within the entire
building;
      (4)   A statement detailing any felony convictions by the applicant and
whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate
a similar type of business in other communities. In the case of a corporation,
a statement detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more than 5% of
the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation, and whether or not those
owners have ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the City
Administrator and payment made to the city. Each application for a license
shall be accompanied by payment in full of the required fee for the license.
All fees shall be paid into the General Fund. Upon rejection of any application
for a license, the city shall refund the amount paid except for that cost to
investigate the applicant.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-rated fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
      (3)   The annual fee for an adult use/accessory shall be $250. The annual
fee for an adult use/principal license shall be $1,000.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid by any license issued under this subchapter
shall be refunded except in the following instances upon application to the
City Administrator within 30 days from the happening of the event. There shall
be refunded a pro-rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the
license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business
ceases no less than one month before expiration of the license because of:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   If the licensee is an individual, the licensee’s disabling
illness. If the licensee is a partnership, the disabling illness of any general
partner. If the licensee is a corporation, the disabling illness of any
shareholder or shareholders who in the aggregate hold 50% or more of the issued
and outstanding shares of the corporation;
         (c)   If the licensee is an individual, the licensee’s death. If the
licensee is a partnership, the death of any general partner. If the licensee is
a corporation, the death of any shareholder or shareholders who in the
aggregate hold 50% or more of the issued and outstanding shares of the
corporation; or
         (d)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
   (D)   Granting of license.
      (1)   (a)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application and hold a public hearing within 45 days after the City
Administrator receives the application. Opportunity shall be given to any
person to be heard for or against the granting of the license.
         (b)   After the investigation and administrative hearing, the City
Council shall grant or refuse the application. The city shall grant or refuse
the application within 45 days after the public hearing has closed.
      (2)   (a)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall
not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for
the premises described in the application.
         (b)   No license may be transferred to another premises without the
approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a partnership or a
corporation, a change in the identity of any of the principals of the
partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license.
         (c)   All adult uses existing at the time of the adoption of this
subchapter shall be required to obtain an annual license.
   (E)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   (a)   Who has been convicted of any of the following felonies, or a
shareholder, director, officer, or partner of which has been convicted of any
of the following felonies:
            1.   Homicide;
            2.   Assault;
            3.   Any felony relating to controlled substances;
            4.   Kidnapping;
            5.   Robbery;
            6.   Any felony relating to prostitution;
            7.   Criminal sexual conduct;
            8.   Incest;
            9.   Malicious punishment of a child;
            10.   Receiving stolen property;
            11.   Any felony relating to gambling;
            12.   Any felony relating to dangerous weapons and/or firearms;
            13.   Any felony in which a dangerous weapon or firearm was used;
or
            14.   Any other felony involving moral turpitude.
         (b)   The City Council may waive the provisions of division (E)(2)(a)
above with respect to an adult use/accessory license and grant an adult use/
accessory license to a person, partnership, or corporation a principal or
principals of which have been convicted of a felony or felonies. In deciding
whether to make a waiver, the Council shall consider:
            1.   The number of felony convictions;
            2.   The nature of the felony or felonies;
            3.   The length of time that has passed since the conviction or
convictions; and
            4.   Whether the license is for a use that existed prior to the
effective date of this subchapter.
      (3)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued.
   (F)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult uses on any premises where a
licensee has been convicted of a violation of this subchapter, or where any
license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one year has elapsed after
the conviction or revocation.
      (2)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of this subchapter
adoption, no license shall be granted for any adult use which is not in
compliance with the city’s zoning regulations.
   (G)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following divisions and all other provisions of this subchapter, and of any
applicable sections of the code of the city or state law.
      (2)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
      (3)   In the case of an adult use/principal, no minor shall be permitted
on the licensed premises unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian.
      (4)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of a licensee
during business hours.
      (5)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
      (6)   No adult goods and/or services shall be offered, sold, transferred,
conveyed, given, displayed, or bartered to any minor.
   (H)   Right of appeal. Any applicant whose application for an adult use
license is denied, or any licensee whose license is revoked or suspended, may
appeal the denial, revocation, or suspension to the County District Court
within 30 days after the denial, revocation, or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1) (Ord. 219, passed 1-27-1992) Penalty, see §
112.99
EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.55 ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   An ordinance entitled “The National Sanitation Foundation Standards of
Commercial Powered Food Preparation Equipment, Food Service Refrigerator and
Food Service Storage Freezers, Automatic Ice-Making Equipment, Soda Fountain/
Luncheonette Equipment and Appurtenances, Dispensing Freezers, Food Vending
Machines, Food Service Equipment and Appurtenances, and Commercial Spray-Type
Dishwashing Machines” is hereby adopted for all public eating, drinking, and
food service establishments in the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
§ 112.60 CANNABINOID PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is designed to permit the reasonable sale of
cannabinoid products while protecting the general welfare of the city's youth,
residents, and visitors by limiting the sale of cannabinoid products to those
establishments licensed by Wright County to sell tobacco and those
establishments licensed by the city to sell alcohol on-sale under
Ch. 110  of this code.
   (B)   General requirement. No person, firm, partnership, or corporation
shall sell cannabinoid products unless:
      (1)   The seller also holds a retail tobacco license from Wright County,
Minnesota and meets the definition of "tobacco products shop" as defined by the
Wright County Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   The seller also holds an on-sale license from the city under
Ch. 110 of this code. However, sellers with an on-sale license are still
prohibited from selling non-beverage cannabinoid products.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   Cannabinoid product shall mean a chemical compound derived from the
cannabis plant or synthetically derived from the cannabis plant.
      (2)   Cannabinoid product means any edible or nonedible cannabinoid
product authorized for sale in M.S. § 151.72, as it may be amended from time to
time, and intended for human consumption whether chewed, smoked, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Except as regulated above, there is no requirement to obtain a
tobacco license from Wright County or an on-sale license from the city in order
to sell cannabinoid products wherein the only cannabinoids present are non-
intoxicating cannabinoids, such Cannabidiol ("CBD") or Cannabinol ("CBN").
      (2)   This subchapter does not apply to medical cannabis products
dispensed by registered medical cannabis dispensaries pursuant to M.S. §§
152.22 to 152.37, as they may be amended from time to time. Medical cannabis
dispensaries that sell nonmedical cannabis products which are also cannabinoid
products are not exempt.
   (E)   A violation of this subchapter or a violation of M.S. § 152.72 is
subject to the penalties listed in §
112.99. A violation of this section or M.S. § 152.72 could result in penalties,
suspension, or revocation under the seller’s tobacco or on-sale license.
(Ord. 788, passed 12-12-2022; Ord. 810, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
112.40 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed state law.
      (2)   (a)   Any violation of §
112.40 shall be a basis for the suspension or revocation of any license granted
hereunder. In the event that the City Council proposes to revoke or suspend the
license, the licensee shall be notified in writing of the basis for such
proposed revocation or suspension. The Council shall hold a public hearing for
the purpose of determining whether to revoke or suspend the license, which
public hearing shall be within 45 days of the date of the notice.
         (b)   The City Council shall determine whether to suspend or revoke
the license within 45 days after the close of the hearing and shall notify the
licensee of its decision within that 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 3-13-1) (Ord. 219, passed 1-27-1992)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Traveling Shows
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   License application
   
113.05   License fees
   
113.06   Provisions of license
   
113.07   Surety bond
   
113.08   Insurance
   
113.09   Approval of license
   
113.10   Revocation
TRAVELING SHOWS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that reasonable regulation of carnivals, circuses,
and other similar events is necessary because of the impact such activities may
have on the safety and well being of the citizens.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-1) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. A traveling enterprise consisting of any combination of amusement
rides, games, sideshows, or exhibits.
   CIRCUS. An arena often covered by a tent and used for variety shows, usually
including tests of physical skill and daring, wild animal acts, and
performances by jugglers, clowns, and the like.
   MENAGERIE. Display of animals for exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-2) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No individual or firm shall operate a carnival, circus, or menagerie in the
city without having first obtained a license as provided by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every person or firm desiring a license shall fill out a form as prescribed
by the City Clerk and receive approval for the application by the City Council.
An application shall be made at least ten days in advance of the Council
meeting at which it is to be considered. The applicant shall provide evidence
of written permission by the property owner of the site specified in the
application allowing the operation of the carnival, circus, or menagerie on the
site.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-4) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.05 LICENSE FEES.
   Fee for a license shall be a fee schedule adopted by the City Council. The
fee payment shall accompany application. This license fee may be waived or
modified for non-profit organizations by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-5) (Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 113.06 PROVISIONS OF LICENSE.
   License shall be as provided in the license application unless modified by
the City Council and shall not be for a period longer than eight days including
set up and take down time.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-6) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.07 SURETY BOND.
   A surety bond in the amount of $5,000 shall be provided to the city to
insure that all applicable federal, state, and city regulations are adhered to,
including provisions of this subchapter. This bond shall accompany the
application.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-7)
§ 113.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The licensee shall provide proof of liability insurance coverage to
protect the city and licensee against any claims or liability for personal
injury or property damage sustained by any person as a result of the operation
of carnival, circus, or menagerie. The liability coverage shall name the city
as an additional insured. The insurance coverage shall have minimum limits of
liability coverage of $1,000,000.
   (B)   The licensee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city from
any claims and liability which may be brought against the municipality as a
result of the operation of the circus, carnival, or menagerie.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-8) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.09 APPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   City Council shall review application and consider approval based on the
following factors:
   (A)   Adherence to ordinance provisions of this section;
   (B)   Previous violations of city ordinances, other cities’ ordinances, and
state and federal regulations;
   (C)   Location and capability of location to handle anticipated traffic, and
the like;
   (D)   Noise levels and proximity to residences, nursing homes, and
hospitals;
   (E)   Other extenuating circumstances that may endanger the health, safety,
and general welfare of the city and its citizens; and
   (F)   Hours of operation are limited from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. unless
modified by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-9) (Ord. 461, passed 6-25-2007)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION.
   City Council may revoke the license at any time for violations of this
subchapter or becoming aware of misrepresentation of facts in the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-10)
CHAPTER 114: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Findings and purpose
   
114.02   Creation
   
114.03   Management
   
114.04   Reservation of power
§ 114.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. § 237.19, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizes the city
to own and operate a telephone exchange and to provide municipal
telecommunications services following a referendum within the city. The city
conducted the required referendum and more than the statutorily prescribed 65%
of those voting thereon voted in favor of proceeding. The City Council hereby
finds that the establishment of FiberNet Monticello is in the best interests of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-1)
§ 114.02 CREATION.
   A municipal telecommunications services enterprise to be known as FiberNet
Monticello is hereby created and established.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-2)
§ 114.03 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint management for FiberNet Monticello, and
hire or assign such staff or consultants or contractors as it deems necessary
for the efficient operations of FiberNet Monticello and the city.
   (B)   Management shall be responsible for the administration and management
of FiberNet Monticello.
   (C)   Management shall have the authority to govern FiberNet Monticello
within the boundaries established in the annual budget as approved by the City
Council. Management shall make an annual budget recommendation to the Council.
Management shall ensure FiberNet meets city requirements and state statutory
requirements for financial management and reporting.
   (D)   Management shall provide reports to the City Council accurately
describing the activities and financial condition of FiberNet Monticello.
   (E)   Management shall maintain contact with the City Administrator as
necessary to coordinate activities.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-3)
§ 114.04 RESERVATION OF POWER.
   Except as delegated by this subchapter or the City Council, the Council
reserves its rights and powers regarding FiberNet Monticello, including, but
not limited to, the power to:
   (A)   Adopt the annual budget;
   (B)   Approve capital improvements; and
   (C)   Approve potential expansions of the service area of FiberNet
Monticello.
(Prior Code, § 2-9-4) (Ord. 480, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 654, passed 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 115: CABLE SERVICE
Section
   
115.01   Findings and intent
   
115.02   Short title
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Franchises
   
115.05   Construction standards
   
115.06   System design and extension provisions
   
115.07   Consumer protection and customer service standards
   
115.08   Community services
   
115.09   Administration provisions
   
115.10   Indemnification and insurance
   
115.11   Franchise transfer or abandonment
   
115.12   Protection of individual rights
   
115.13   Unauthorized connections and modifications; prohibited
   
115.14   Enforcement
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Right-of-way regulations, see §§
94.01 through
94.30
§ 115.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   The city finds that the delivery of cable service and related communications
services may contribute significantly to the communication needs and desires of
residents of the city, benefit local economic development, and improve public
and municipal services. The city’s intent in adopting this cable chapter is to
encourage further development of cable service and related communications
services in the city, and to ensure that all cable service providers are
subject to comparable obligations and burdens.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter will be known and cited as the “Cable Ordinance”.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Unless
otherwise provided herein, terms, phrases, and words contained in this cable
chapter shall have the meaning ascribed in the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et
seq., or if not defined herein or in the Cable Act will have their normal and
customary meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words in the
singular number include the plural number. The words “must” and “will” are
always mandatory and not merely directory. The word “may” is directory and
discretionary and not mandatory.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. The meaning ascribed in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522(3).
   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM, CABLE SYSTEM, or SYSTEM. The meaning ascribed
in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE. The meaning ascribed in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §
543(l)(2).
   CABLE SERVICE. The meaning ascribed in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum which is used
in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a television channel.
   CITY. The City of Monticello, Minnesota, a municipal corporation, in the
State of Minnesota.
   COMMISSION. The Sherburne/Wright Counties Cable Communications Commission, a
municipal joint powers entity consisting of the following municipalities: Big
Lake; Buffalo; Cokato; Dassel; Delano; Elk River; Maple Lake; Monticello;
Rockford; and Watertown.
   CONVERTER. A customer premises device required to receive cable service.
   DROP. The cable that connects the ground block at the subscriber’s location
to the nearest distribution point of the system.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, or its lawful successor.
   FRANCHISE, CABLE FRANCHISE, or FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. An agreement between the
city and any provider of cable service pursuant to this cable chapter granting
authorization to construct, operate, and maintain a system and provide cable
service in the city.
   FRANCHISE FEE. The meaning ascribed in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 542(g).
   GRANTEE. Any recipient of a franchise, and its agents and employees, lawful
successors, transferees, or assignees.
   GROSS REVENUES. All revenues, as determined in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), received by a grantee or its
affiliates from the operation of a cable system to provide cable service in the
city. By way of example and not limitation, GROSS REVENUES shall include any
advertising revenues received by a grantee or its affiliates in connection with
the provision of cable service. GROSS REVENUES shall not include revenues
received by a grantee or its affiliates from the provision of
telecommunications services or other non-cable services in the city, bad debt,
credits, refunds and deposits paid to subscribers, or any taxes, fees, or
assessments of general applicability collected by a grantee which are imposed
directly on a subscriber and which are collected by a grantee for such
governmental unit including any PEG capital fees. A franchise fee is not such a
tax, fee, or assessment.
   INSTALLATION. The connection of a system from a distribution cable to the
point of connection, including standard installations and custom installations.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. The meaning ascribed in the FCC’s rules, 47 C.F.R. §
76.309(c)(4).
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. The meaning ascribed in the FCC’s rules, 47
C.F.R. § 76.309(c)(4).
   PEG ACCESS FACILITIES. Public, educational, and governmental programming
channels, or any equipment or facilities for use of such channels as required
by a franchise.
   PERSON. The meaning ascribed in Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522(15).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, and public sidewalk in which
the local government unit has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-
way for travel purposes and utility easements of local government units.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY ORDINANCE. An ordinance of general applicability adopted and
uniformly applied as to similarly situated ROW occupants by the city
establishing requirements regarding regulation, management, and use of rights-
of-way, including registration and permitting requirements.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any residential installation that can be completed
using a drop of 125 feet or less.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives cable service via a system.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. The meaning ascribed in 47 U.S.C. § 153(46).
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.04 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person may construct, operate, or maintain a cable system or
provide cable service in the city unless and until such person is granted a
franchise. All franchises must be granted pursuant to the provisions of this
cable chapter. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, any franchises
and this cable chapter shall at all times be subject to, and without waiving,
applicable law.
      (2)   Any franchise granted hereunder will authorize a grantee to deliver
cable service and construct, operate, and maintain a cable system in the
rights-of-way in the city.
      (3)   All franchises shall be nonexclusive and city may grant additional
franchises at any time. The city will not grant an additional franchise on
terms and conditions more favorable or less burdensome than those in an
existing franchise. The city may impose additional terms and conditions in any
additional franchise.
      (4)   The city shall comply with §
115.14(D) in the event an additional provider is legally authorized to provide
cable service.
      (5)   This cable chapter and franchises granted pursuant hereto are
intended to comply with M.S. Ch. 238, as it may be amended from time to time.
Any applicable requirement established by M.S. § 238.084, as it may be amended
from time to time, not expressly incorporated in this cable chapter or a
franchise shall be deemed incorporated by reference in the franchise as though
fully set forth therein.
   (B)   Use of rights-of-way.
      (1)   Use of rights-of-way to operate a cable system and provide cable
service must not be inconsistent with the terms and conditions by which such
rights-of-way were created or dedicated. Use of rights-of-way is subject to all
generally applicable legal requirements including any right-of-way ordinance
enacted by the city and division (E) below.
      (2)   Upon written request, the city shall have the right to review,
subject to the confidentiality protections provided in §
115.09(C), the grantee’s system location maps at a mutually agreed upon
location.
   (C)   Tree trimming. Subject to applicable law, a grantee is authorized to
trim any trees upon and overhanging the rights-of-way, alleys, sidewalks, or
public easements of city so as to prevent the branches of such trees from
coming in contact with wires and cables of a system.
   (D)   Franchise term. Franchises will be granted for a term established in
the franchise agreement. No franchise may be granted for a period exceeding 15
years from the date of acceptance by the grantee.
   (E)   Regulation of cable service. Any franchise agreement adopted pursuant
to this cable chapter will define the contractual rights and obligations of the
city and grantee; provided however that a grantee remains subject to the lawful
exercise of the city’s police power, ordinance-making authority, and power of
eminent domain.
   (F)   Initial franchise applications.
      (1)   Upon request or its own initiative, the city may initiate the cable
franchise application process required by M.S. § 238.081, as it may be amended
from time to time. Any person desiring an initial franchise must file an
application with the city.
      (2)   The city will establish an application fee in an amount to offset
the costs of processing applications and awarding an initial franchise. Such
application fees will not constitute a franchise fee.
      (3)   Upon receipt of an application for an initial franchise, city staff
will prepare a report and recommendations to the City Council regarding the
application(s).
      (4)   A public hearing concerning applications will be held prior to
rejection or acceptance of applications, and award of any initial franchises.
   (G)   Franchise renewal. Franchise renewals will be conducted in accordance
with applicable laws.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Right-of-way regulations, see §§
94.01 through
94.30
§ 115.05 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Registration, permits, and construction codes. Within 90 days of
acceptance of an initial franchise, a grantee shall apply for any necessary
governmental permits, licenses, certificates, and authorizations to construct,
repair, replace, relocate, operate, maintain, or reconstruct a system. A
grantee must strictly adhere to all state and local laws and building and
zoning codes currently or hereafter applicable to location, construction,
installation, operation, or maintenance of the facilities used to provide cable
service in the city.
   (B)   Repair of rights-of-way and property.
      (1)   Consistent with any generally applicable rights-of-way ordinance
adopted by the city or applicable law if a city has not adopted a rights-of-way
ordinance, any rights-of-way or other property disturbed or damaged during the
construction, repair, replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance, or
reconstruction of a cable system shall be promptly and fully restored by the
grantee performing such work, at its expense, to a condition as good as that
prevailing prior to such work.
      (2)   If a grantee fails to promptly perform the restoration required
herein, the city shall have the right, following reasonable written notice to
the grantee, to restore rights-of-way and other public property to a condition
as good as that prevailing prior to the grantee’s work. The city shall be fully
reimbursed by the grantee for its actual costs relating to such restoration.
   (C)   Undergrounding of facilities.
      (1)   In all areas of the city where utility facilities are required to
be placed underground, or where all other utility lines are underground, a
grantee must construct and install system facilities underground.
      (2)   A grantee must bury new underground drops within a reasonable time
period, subject to weather conditions. In the event the ground is frozen, a
grantee will be permitted to delay burial until the ground is suitable for
burial which in no event must be later than June 30.
   (D)   Safety requirements.
      (1)   A grantee shall at all times keep and maintain the system in good
condition, order, and repair so as to avoid endangering the life or property of
any person; employ ordinary and reasonable care and common industry practices
to avoid causing damage, injuries, or nuisances to the public; and keep and
maintain the system in accordance with all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations including the National Electric Safety Code.
      (2)   A grantee must install and maintain equipment and facilities in
accordance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, any
right-of-way ordinance, and the requirements of the National Electric Safety
Code.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.06 SYSTEM DESIGN AND EXTENSION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   System capacity and channels. At a minimum, any franchise granted
hereunder shall describe the grantee’s network in terms of the total system
capacity such as the total number of analog and digital video channels that can
be provided.
   (B)   Cable service availability.
      (1)   Each franchise will identify a required service area in which a
grantee will be required to offer cable service to all dwellings, homes, and
businesses, subject to a reasonable density threshold. Any additional franchise
will include a service area that is no more favorable or less burdensome than
the service area in an existing franchise.
      (2)   Any franchise granted hereunder may establish requirements for the
extension of the system and provision of cable service to areas that may be
annexed by the city beyond the initially required service area.
      (3)   Cable service shall not be denied to any group of potential
residential cable subscribers because of the income of the residents of the
area in which such group resides.
   (C)   Non-standard installations. A grantee must provide cable service to
any person requesting other than a standard installation except that a grantee
may charge for the incremental increase in material and labor costs incurred
above the cost of making a standard installation.
   (D)   Technical standards. Any system offering cable service in the city
must comply, at minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC
relating to cable systems pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 76.601 to 76.617, as may be
amended or modified from time to time.
   (E)   System testing.
      (1)   A grantee shall perform all system testing required pursuant to the
FCC’s technical standards and requirements.
      (2)   Demand for special tests may be made on the basis of complaints
received or other evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or
noncompliance. Such tests shall be limited to the particular matter in
controversy or unresolved complaints. The city shall arrange its request for
such special testing so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to the grantee
or to the subscribers caused by such testing. Before ordering such tests, the
grantee shall be afforded 30 days to correct problems or complaints upon which
tests were ordered. The city shall meet with the grantee prior to requiring
special tests to discuss the need for such and, if possible, visually inspect
those locations which are the focus of concern. If, after such meetings and
inspections, the city wishes to commence special tests and the 30 days have
elapsed without correction of the matter in controversy or unresolved
complaints, the tests shall be conducted by a qualified engineer mutually
selected by the city and the grantee based on a mutually agreed upon scope of
work and cost. The parties shall bear their respective costs for the testing,
with the city bearing the cost of special testing unless such testing reveal
that the source of the technical difficulty is within the grantee’s reasonable
control, in which case the cost of the testing must be borne by the grantee.
   (F)   FCC reports. The results of tests required to be filed by the grantee
with the FCC shall also be copied to city.
   (G)   Emergency alert system. A grantee shall comply with 47 U.S.C. § 544(g)
and all regulations issued pursuant thereto with respect to an emergency alert
system (“EAS”). If a grantee provides an EAS, then the city shall permit only
appropriately trained and authorized persons to operate the EAS equipment and
shall take reasonable precautions to prevent any use of the grantee’s cable
system in any manner that results in inappropriate use thereof, or any loss or
damage to the cable system. The city shall hold the grantee, its employees,
officers and assigns harmless from any claims or costs arising out of use of
the EAS, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.07 CONSUMER PROTECTION AND CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Regulation of cable service rates. The city may regulate rates for the
provision of cable service to the extent allowed under federal and state law
(s). A grantee must file a list of current subscriber rates and charges with
the city, which lists will be maintained on file with city and will be
available for public inspection. For purposes of this section, the availability
of this information on a grantee’s website shall constitute compliance. A
grantee shall comply with applicable law in providing the city and subscribers
with notice of any change in a cable service rate or charges.
   (B)   Sales procedures. A grantee may not exercise deceptive sales
procedures that violate state laws when marketing any of its cable services
within the city. A grantee may conduct marketing consistent with local
ordinances and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Telephone inquiries and complaints. A grantee must maintain local,
toll-free or collect call telephone access lines which will be available to its
subscribers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. A grantee must comply with the
FCC’s customer service standards, as amended, a current copy of which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof.
   (D)   Complaint and other service records.
      (1)   Upon written request by the city, and subject to a grantee’s
obligation to maintain the privacy of certain information, a grantee must
prepare and maintain written records of all written complaints received and the
resolution of such complaints for a period of three years, including the date
of such resolution.
      (2)   Written complaint records for a period of three years must be on
file at the office of a grantee. Upon written request by the city, a grantee
must provide the city with a written summary of such complaints and their
resolution and in a form mutually agreeable to the city and grantee.
      (3)   (a)   Upon written request by the city, a grantee must provide
detailed compliance reports on a quarterly basis for a period of three years
with respect to the objectively measurable service standards required in this
section.
         (b)   A grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards contained
in this section unless a historical record of complaints indicates a failure to
comply.
   (E)   Subscriber contracts. A grantee must provide to the city upon request
any standard form residential subscriber contract utilized.
   (F)   Video programming. All franchises will comply with 47 U.S.C. § 544(b),
regarding the broad categories of video programming provided. Individual
programming decisions may be made in the grantee’s sole discretion.
   (G)   Billing and subscriber communications.
      (1)   A grantee shall comply with federal law regarding giving the city
and subscribers prior notice of any changes in rates, programming services, or
channel alignments.
      (2)   Bills must be clear, concise, and understandable. Bills must
clearly delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional
charges, rebates, and credits. In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must
respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
   (H)   Refunds and credits. A grantee shall comply with applicable law
regarding the issuance of refunds or credits.
   (I)   Additional customer service requirements. The city may adopt
additional or modified customer service requirements to address subscriber
concerns or complaints to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.08 COMMUNITY SERVICES.
   (A)   PEG access facilities. Franchises will establish obligations to
provide PEG access facilities to meet the community’s needs and interests. The
city will operate, administer, and manage PEG access programming and the city
may delegate its PEG access authority and responsibilities to the Commission.
All franchises must contain equivalent PEG access obligations on any franchise
provider of cable services.
   (B)   Service to public or educational institutions. Franchises will
establish obligations for the provision of free or reduced cost cable services
to identified public or educational institutions.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.09 ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Administration of franchise. The city will have continuing regulatory
authority over cable systems, cable services, and franchise compliance. The
city may delegate any and all regulatory authority to the commission. A grantee
must fully cooperate with the commission in the exercise of regulatory
authority delegated by the city.
   (B)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   A grantee must pay to the city a franchise fee in the amount
established in the franchise agreement, provided that the city must impose
identical franchise fee obligations (including the percentage and gross revenue
definition) on all cable service providers in the city.
      (2)   Each franchise fee payment must be accompanied by a report
certified by an authorized representative of the grantee, in form reasonably
acceptable to city, detailing the computation of the payment. All amounts paid
must be subject to audit and recomputation by the city for the statutorily-
allowed period applicable to assertion of contract claims, and acceptance of
any payment must not be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact
the correct amount.
      (3)   A grantee may designate that portion of a subscriber’s bill
attributable to the franchise fee as a separate line item on the bill.
   (C)   Access to records.
      (1)   The city may, upon reasonable notice and during normal business
hours, and subject to the privacy provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.,
inspect at a mutually convenient location any records of system operations
maintained by a grantee that relate to a grantee’s compliance with its
franchise, including specifically the grantee’s gross revenue records. A
grantee may identify and label documents as “confidential trade secret” in
accordance with §
115.04(B).
      (2)   A grantee must prepare and furnish to the city such reports as city
may reasonably request with respect to operation of the system and provision of
cable services in the city.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.10 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Indemnification of the city.
      (1)   A grantee must indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city, its
officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees, and
agents from and against any loss or damage to any real or personal property of
any person, or for any injury to or death of any person, arising out of or in
connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of
a system or other facilities used by a grantee to deliver cable service.
      (2)   A grantee must indemnify, defend, and hold the city, its officers,
boards, committees, commissions, elected officials, employees and agents,
harmless from and against all lawsuits, claims, actions, liability, damages,
costs, expenses, or penalties incurred as a result of the award or enforcement
of its franchise.
      (3)   A grantee shall not be required to provide indemnification or
defense for any intentional misconduct, willful neglect, or negligence by an
indemnified party, for any enforcement action taken by the city against a
grantee, for any claim based solely on the city’s operation of PEG access
facilities, delivery of PEG access programming, or EAS messages originated by
the city. Subject to the limitations in M.S. Ch. 466, as it may be amended from
time to time, the city shall indemnify, defend, and hold a grantee harmless
from any damage resulting from any intentional misconduct, willful neglect, or
negligence by the city, its officers, boards, committees, commissions, elected
officials, employees, and agents, in utilizing PEG access facilities or
channels, delivering EAS messages originated by the city, or in connection with
work performed on or adjacent to the system.
      (4)   With respect to each claim for indemnification:
         (a)   The city must notify the grantee in writing of its duty under
this section within ten days of receipt of any suit, claim, or proceeding which
gives rise to such duty;
         (b)   The grantee must afford the city an opportunity to participate
in any compromise, settlement, or other resolution or disposition of any suit,
claim, or proceeding; and
         (c)   The city must cooperate with reasonable requests of the grantee,
at grantee’s expense, in its participation in a suit, claim, or proceeding.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   A grantee must obtain and maintain in full force and effect, at its
sole expense, a comprehensive general liability insurance policy, in protection
of the grantee, and the city, its officers, elected officials, boards,
commissions, agents, and employees for damages which may arise as a result of
operation of the system or delivery of cable service.
      (2)   The policies of insurance must be in the sum of not less than
$1,000,000 for bodily injury or death of any one person, and $2,000,000 for
bodily injury or death of two or more persons in any one occurrence, $500,000
for property damage to any one person and $2,000,000 for property damage
resulting from any one act or occurrence.
      (3)   The insurance policy must be maintained by grantee in full force
and effect during the entire term of the franchise. Each policy of insurance
must contain a statement on its face that the insurer will not cancel the
policy or fail to renew the policy, whether for nonpayment of premium, or
otherwise, and whether at the request of grantee or for other reasons, except
after 30 days advance written notice have been provided to the city.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.11 FRANCHISE TRANSFER OR ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Abandonment of service. A grantee may not discontinue the provision of
cable service without having first given three months written notice to the
city.
   (B)   System removal after abandonment, termination, or forfeiture.
      (1)   In the event of termination or forfeiture of the franchise or
abandonment of the system, the city may require the grantee to remove all or
any portion of its system from all rights-of-way and public property within the
city; provided, however, that the grantee will not be required to remove its
system to the extent it lawfully provides non-cable services over the system.
      (2)   If the grantee has failed to commence removal of its system, or
such part thereof as was designated by the city, within 120 days after written
demand for removal is given, or if the grantee has failed to complete such
removal within 12 months after written demand for removal is given, the city
may apply funds secured by the franchise toward removal.
   (C)   Sale or transfer of franchise.
      (1)   No sale or transfer of ownership of a grantee or “fundamental
corporate change” in a grantee as defined in M.S. § 238.083, as it may be
amended from time to time, nor sale of transfer of a franchise, is permitted
without city approval. Any sale or transfer of stock in a grantee creating a
new controlling interest constitutes a sale or transfer of ownership. A
“controlling interest” includes majority stock ownership or a lesser amount
sufficient to confer actual working control in whatever manner exercised. City
approval shall not be required where a grantee grants a security interest in
its franchise or system to secure an indebtedness.
      (2)   A grantee must file a written request with the city prior to any
transaction described above. The city will approve or deny a transfer request
within 120 days of receipt of a written request. The city will not unreasonably
withhold its approval.
      (3)   In no event will a transaction be approved unless any proposed new
grantee becomes a signatory to, and assumes all rights and obligations under,
the franchise.
      (4)   In the event a grantee has received a bona fide offer for purchase
of its system, the city shall have the right to purchase the system for the
same price and under equivalent conditions which the proposed assignee or
transferee agreed to pay. The city will be deemed to have waived its right to
purchase the system in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The city does not notify the grantee in writing, within 60 days
of notice, that it intends to exercise its right of purchase; or
         (b)   The city approves the transaction.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.12 PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices prohibited. No grantee may deny cable service
or otherwise discriminate against citizens or businesses on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, age, status as to public assistance,
affectional preference, or disability.
   (B)   Subscriber privacy.
      (1)   A grantee must comply with the subscriber privacy-related
requirements of 47 U.S.C. § 551.
      (2)   No signals of a Class IV channel may be transmitted from a
subscriber terminal for purposes of monitoring individual viewing patterns or
practices without the express written authorization of the subscriber.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.13 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, without the express consent of the
grantee, to make or possess, or assist anybody in making or possessing, any
connection, extension, or division, whether physically, acoustically,
inductively, electronically or otherwise, with or to any segment of a grantee’s
system.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully interfere, tamper, remove,
obstruct, or damage, or assist thereof, any part or segment of a system for any
purpose.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations or other occurrences giving rise to enforcement action.
      (1)   In order to take enforcement action pursuant to this cable chapter
or a franchise, the city must provide the grantee with written notice of the
violation or other occurrence giving rise to the city’s action.
      (2)   The grantee shall have 30 days subsequent to receipt of the notice
to cure the violation or occurrence giving rise to the city’s action.
Alternatively, the grantee may, within 14 days of receipt of notice from the
city, notify the city in writing that there is a dispute as to whether a
violation or failure has in fact occurred. Such written notice by the grantee
to the city shall specify with particularity the matters disputed by grantee
and shall toll the running of the timeframes and the accrual of penalties
hereunder until completion of the process and issuance of a decision under
divisions (A)(3) through (A)(5) below.
      (3)   In the event a grantee does not timely cure to the city’s
satisfaction the violation or other occurrence giving rise to the city’s
action, or timely disputes whether a violation has occurred, the city will
schedule a public hearing affording grantee due process. The city will endeavor
to schedule the hearing for a date within 90 days of the initial violation
notice. Notice of the hearing must be provided to the grantee.
      (4)   At the completion of the hearing, the city will issue written
findings of fact and its final determination.
      (5)   In the event city determines that no violation has taken place, the
city will rescind the notice of violation in writing.
   (B)   Franchise revocation.
      (1)   In addition to all other rights and remedies that the city
possesses pursuant to law, equity and the terms of the franchise agreement, the
city may revoke or terminate the franchise, and all rights and privileges
pertaining thereto, in accordance with division (A) above if the city
determines that:
         (a)   The grantee has violated any material requirement or provision
of the cable chapter or a franchise and has failed to timely cure;
         (b)   The grantee has attempted to evade any of the material
provisions of the cable chapter or a franchise;
         (c)   The grantee has practiced fraud or deceit upon the city or a
subscriber; or
         (d)   The grantee has filed for bankruptcy.
      (2)   During any revocation proceeding and any appeal period, the
franchise will remain in full force and effect unless the term thereof sooner
expires.
   (C)   Compliance with federal, state, and local laws. The city and grantee
will conform to federal and state laws and rules regarding cable service or the
system as they become effective.
   (D)   Equal protection.
      (1)   The city acknowledges that under M.S. § 238.08, subd. 1(b), as it
may be amended from time to time, it may only grant additional franchises to
provide cable service within the city on terms and conditions no more favorable
or less burdensome than those in any then-current franchise which pertain to:
         (a)   The area served;
         (b)   Public, educational, or governmental access requirements; or
         (c)   Franchise fees.
      (2)   Additionally, and beyond the requirements of M.S. § 238.08, as it
may be amended from time to time, any additional franchises to provide cable
service within the city shall not be granted on more favorable or less
burdensome conditions than those in any then-current franchise issued pursuant
to this cable chapter with regard to ROW access and responsibilities,
complimentary service to public buildings, penalties, and security, sale, or
transfer of ownership.
         (a)   If any other provider of cable services is lawfully authorized
by the city to provide such services using facilities located wholly or partly
in the rights-of-way of the city (“additional provider(s)”), the city shall,
within 30 days of a written request from a current franchise holder, use best
efforts to modify the current franchise holder’s franchise on a mutually
acceptable basis to ensure that the obligations imposed by this section have
been met.
         (b)   If the city fails to comply with this section or the parties
fail to reach agreement under division (D)(2)(a) above, a current franchise
holder shall have the right to initiate an action in the state or federal
district court for breach of contract or other appropriate claims and seek any
and all appropriate relief, including specific performance.
         (c)   Nothing in this chapter shall impair the right of the city or a
current franchise holder to seek other remedies available under law.
         (d)   In the event city initiates the franchising process pursuant to
M.S. § 238.081, as it may be amended from time to time, the city shall notify
all current franchise holders in writing of its intent to initiate the
franchising process prior to doing so.
         (e)   A current franchise holder shall have the right to operate its
cable system in accordance with applicable state or federal law, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
115.13 may be fined not less than $20 and the costs of the action nor more than
$500 and the costs of the action for each and every subsequent offense.
(Ord. 711, passed 2-11-2019)
CHAPTER 116: SIDEWALK CAFÉS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Licenses
   
116.03   Fees
   
116.04   Conditions of approval
   
116.05   License requirements
   
116.06   Operation
   
116.07   Restrictions
   
116.08   Inspection
   
116.09   Permit suspension and revocation
   
116.10   Expiration of licenses
   
116.11   Right to a hearing
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELIGIBLE VENUE.
      (1)   A restaurant currently holding a license from the Minnesota
Department of Health that was issued pursuant to M.S. § 157.16, subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   A premises currently holding an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that was issued pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances;
      (3)   A premises currently holding a wine license that was issued
pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances; or
      (4)   A premises currently holding a brewery, taproom or brew pub license
that was issued pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code of ordinances.
   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT. A parking lot owned by the city that is generally
available for use by the public for vehicular parking.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALK. A sidewalk owned by the city that is generally available
for use by the public for pedestrian traffic.
   RESTAURANT. The meaning given it by M.S. § 157.15, subd. 12, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ. Tables, chairs, benches, and appurtenant equipment located on
a public sidewalk or municipal parking lot:
      (1)   For the exclusive or non-exclusive use by patrons of an abutting,
eligible establishment as allowed by the license; and
      (2)   Where the service of food or beverages is offered to persons using
such tables, chairs, and benches.
§ 116.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. A person may use a public sidewalk or municipal
parking lot for a sidewalk café in connection with the operation of an eligible
venue if the person holds a current sidewalk café license issued pursuant to
this chapter. The operation of a sidewalk café under any other circumstance is
prohibited.
   (B)   License period. Each sidewalk café license issued on or before April 1
shall run from the beginning of the day on April 1 to the end of the day on
October 31 for the year to which the license applies. Each sidewalk café
license issued after April 1 shall run from the beginning of the day the
license was issued to the end of the day on October 31 for the year to which
the license applies.
   (C)   Nature of use. A sidewalk café license only grants the license holder
a temporary license to encroach upon a public sidewalk or municipal parking
lot, subject to the requirements and restrictions contained in this chapter.
   (D)   License application.
      (1)   A person desiring to use any portion of a public sidewalk or
municipal parking lot for a sidewalk café in connection with the operation of
an eligible venue must apply for a sidewalk café license using forms supplied
by the City Clerk.
      (2)   Each application must include a plan, drawn to scale, illustrating:
         (a)   The exact location of the proposed sidewalk café;
         (b)   Distances to, and dimensions of, adjoining buildings;
         (c)   All sidewalks, curbs, and striped parking stalls within 100 feet
of the perimeter of the proposed sidewalk café;
         (d)   The distance to and location of the traveled portion of the
nearest adjacent street; and
         (e)   Distances to all obstructions in the vicinity.
§ 116.03 FEES.
   (A)   Fee amount.
      (1)   An application for a sidewalk café license for a sidewalk café
located on a public sidewalk shall be accompanied by the appropriate sidewalk
café license fee set forth in the city fee schedule.
      (2)   (a)   An application for a sidewalk café license for a sidewalk
café located on a municipal parking lot shall be accompanied by the appropriate
sidewalk café license fee, which shall be calculated by adding the base fee to
the total parking stall fee listed in the city fee schedule.
         (b)   The parking stall fee shall be calculated by multiplying the
number of parking stalls impacted by the sidewalk café by the per stall fee
listed in the city fee schedule.
         (c)    A parking stall shall be deemed impacted by a sidewalk café if
the sidewalk café shown in the application prevents reasonable access to the
parking stall, as determined by the City Council.
         (d)   The parking stall fee is a one-time fee paid at the time of
first license issue.
   (B)   Fee calculation.
      (1)   The license fee for any sidewalk café license issued after April 1
of a year shall be prorated based upon the number of days between April 1 and
the date of issuance as compared to the number of days between the date of
issuance and October 31.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the sidewalk café license fee, less
$100, shall be returned to the applicant.
      (3)   If a sidewalk café license is surrendered by a license holder or
revoked before October 31 of any calendar year, no refund shall be given.
§ 116.04 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Site specific requirements.
      (1)   Sidewalk café area shall be limited to the public right-of-way
abutting the frontage of the business to which it is attached. The sidewalk
café area may be extended to the public frontage of the abutting property with
notice to the adjacent property owner of the license consideration.
      (2)   Sidewalk cafés must be located at least 20 feet from any fire
hydrant.
      (3)   Sidewalk cafés must not block site lines at intersections as
determined by the City Engineer and/or Public Works Director.
      (4)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the
specific dimensional area in which such café may be operated.
      (5)   The city maintains the right to review and make final determination
as to the location of each sidewalk café based on the unique circumstances
related to each business.
   (B)   Design specifications.
      (1)   Dimensioned site plan shall be provided detailing location of
sidewalks, pathways, proposed seating areas, landscaping features, and any
appurtenances.
      (2)   Lighting, if proposed, must be illustrated on the site plan, be
directed downward, and be compatible with the surrounding area.
      (3)   Canopies may be used for weather protection and heaters are
allowed. Specifications for both to be provided and are subject to approval of
Building Official.
      (4)   No commercial signage may be placed on the sidewalk café areas,
including canopies and umbrellas, except for on table tops. Sandwich board
signs may be allowed provided they are removed from the café each evening.
      (5)   There shall be a minimum clear passage zone for pedestrians of at
least five feet, and shall be maintained at all times.
      (6)   Umbrellas extending into the pedestrian clear passage zone or
pedestrian aisle shall have a minimum head clearance of seven feet.
§ 116.05 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license for a sidewalk café shall be issued or renewed until all of the
following conditions are met.
   (A)   The applicant possesses valid licenses from the state and the city to
operate the eligible venue.
   (B)   The area occupied by the sidewalk café abuts to, and will be operated
as part of, the applicant’s eligible venue and no part of the sidewalk café
adjoins any premises other than the applicant’s eligible venue.
   (C)   A distance of at least 150 feet exists between the nearest point of
the sidewalk café to the nearest point of any property used for residential
purposes, excepting residential property owned by the applicant, mixed use
commercial/residential structures, and properties located within the Central
Community District.
   (D)   The applicant has furnished the City Clerk with acceptable evidence
that the applicant maintains commercial general liability insurance for any
death, personal injury, or property damage arising from the ownership,
maintenance, or operation of the sidewalk café in amounts not less than:
      (1)   One million dollars for injury to or death of one person;
      (2)   Three million dollars for any one incident; and
      (3)   One hundred thousand dollars for damage to property arising from
any one incident.
   (E)   The applicant shall maintain such insurance in effect at all times
during the term of the sidewalk café license. The city shall be named as an
additional insured in the policy providing such insurance. The applicant shall
produce a certificate to the city when any sidewalk café license is issued or
renewed evidencing the required insurance. Further, such certificate shall
obligate the insurer to endeavor to give the city not less than 30 days
advanced notice of any modification or cancellation of coverage.
   (F)   The applicant has furnished the City Clerk with acceptable evidence of
worker’s compensation coverage as required by M.S. § 176.182, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (G)   The city has not received notice from the State Department of Revenue
prohibiting issuance or renewal of the sidewalk café license.
   (H)   The applicant has executed and delivered a written agreement to the
City Clerk, using a form of agreement provided by the City Clerk, that:
      (1)   Acknowledges the sidewalk café only exists as a permitted
encumbrance for the applicable license period; and
      (2)   Obligates the applicant to indemnify and hold the city and the
city’s officials and employees harmless from any loss, costs, damages, and
expenses arising out of the use, design, operation, or maintenance of the
sidewalk café.
   (I)    The applicant has delivered the damage deposit to the City Clerk.
   (J)   The City Council has found that the sidewalk café will not unduly
restrict the safe usage of the public sidewalk or municipal parking lot, as
applicable, after taking into consideration the location of the proposed
sidewalk café, pedestrian traffic, and vehicular traffic.
§ 116.06 OPERATION.
   Every sidewalk café shall be operated in strict conformance with the
following requirements.
   (A)   The conditions, operation, and restrictions shall be met on a
continuing basis. No expansion of the area occupied by the sidewalk café from
that shown on the license application shall be made.
   (B)   Only food or beverages for immediate consumption shall be offered for
sale.
   (C)   Intoxicating liquors, beer, or wine may be consumed only if the
sidewalk café meets all of the requirements of
Chapter 110.
   (D)   The sidewalk café shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition. Sidewalks will be required to be swept and washed daily by the
permit holder and trash disposal and electricity will be provided from within
the establishment.
   (E)   The person holding the sidewalk café license shall, at such person’s
expense, promptly repair any damage to public property resulting, in whole or
in part, from the operation of the sidewalk café.
   (F)   Any public sidewalk between the eligible venue and the sidewalk café
shall, at all times, remain open for public traffic, subject to ingress and
egress between the eligible venue and its sidewalk café.
   (G)   No sale or service shall be permitted in any portion of the street
designated for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   Hours of operation of the sidewalk café shall be limited to between
10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. from April 15 through October 15.
   (I)   No electronically amplified outdoor music, intercom, audio speakers,
or other such noise generating devices shall be allowed in the sidewalk café
area.
§ 116.07 RESTRICTIONS.
   Every sidewalk café shall be operated in strict conformance with the
following restrictions.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the
specific dimensional area in which such café may be operated.
   (B)   The permit does not authorize any structure to be permanently
installed or any equipment to be permanently attached to, in, or upon any
public right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as provided herein, the ownership, operation, and maintenance
of a sidewalk café shall be subject to all applicable laws, ordinances, and
regulations.
   (D)   No sidewalk café permit can be transferred to new ownership without
permission of the City Council.
   (E)   The recommendation of these departments, including the recommended
minimum unobstructed sidewalk width necessary for pedestrian traffic on such
application, shall be reported to the City Council for its action.
   (F)   No person shall consume an alcoholic beverage in a public park, on any
public street, sidewalk, parking lot, or alley, or in any other public place,
except as expressly allowed by:
      (1)   This
Chapter 116;
      (2)   M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (3)   A sidewalk café license issued pursuant to this
Chapter 116.
§ 116.08 INSPECTION.
   The city may inspect a sidewalk café at any time to confirm compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
§ 116.09 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city may revoke any sidewalk café license if any requirement set
forth in §
116.05 is violated or if the State Department of Revenue sends the city notice
requiring revocation. Nothing herein shall be interpreted as preventing the
city from also prosecuting any violation of this chapter as a criminal
violation pursuant to the city code.
   (B)   Any special permit authorized by this chapter may be revoked at any
time by the City Council when it appears that adequate grounds exist. Any such
permit may be suspended by the Council for such period as the Council shall
determine.
§ 116.10 EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Date of expiration. Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter expire on
October 31 of each calendar year.
   (B)   Surrender. On or before the date a sidewalk café license expires, the
applicant shall surrender the sidewalk café area to the city in the same order
and condition as existed on the date the sidewalk café license was issued,
ordinary wear and tear excepted. Without limiting the general nature of the
preceding sentence, the applicant shall remove all personal property from the
sidewalk café area and repair all damage caused by such removal, all at the
applicant’s expense.
§ 116.11 RIGHT TO A HEARING.
   Except for a denial or revocation required by the State Department of
Revenue, any applicant that has been denied the issuance of a sidewalk café
license or any person whose sidewalk café license has been revoked may, upon
written request to the City Clerk promptly made after the denial or revocation
has occurred, request a hearing before the City Council to present evidence and
to appeal the decision.
CHAPTER 117: THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISES AND MASSAGE THERAPISTS
Section:
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   License requirements
   
117.04   Exceptions
   
117.05   License application
   
117.06   License fees
   
117.07   License application verification and consideration
   
117.08   Persons ineligible for license
   
117.09   Locations ineligible for therapeutic massage enterprise license
   
117.10   License restrictions
   
117.11   Term, renewal of license
   
117.12   Sanctions for license violations
 
   
117.99   Penalties
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit massage businesses and services
to the public except those licensed by the city as therapeutic massage
enterprises and massage therapists pursuant to this chapter. The license
regulations prescribed herein are necessary in order to protect businesses that
are operating legitimate enterprises, to prevent criminal activity, and to
protect the health and welfare of the community. The purpose of this chapter is
not to impose restrictions or limitations on the freedom of protected speech or
expression.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms when used for this chapter shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   ACCREDITED INSTITUTION. An educational institution holding accredited status
with the United States Department of Education or which has been licensed or
registered by the Minnesota Office of Higher Education or similar agency of
another state or a regional accrediting agency approved by the U.S. Department
of Education.
   ACCREDITED PROGRAM. A professional massage program accredited by the
Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation (COMTA).
   CLEAN. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage, and other offensive,
unsightly, or extraneous matter.
   GOOD REPAIR. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive
wear and tear, leaks, obstructions, and similar defects so as to constitute a
good and sound condition.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City of Monticello.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, or friction against, or the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, stimulating, or rolling of
the external parts of the human body with the hands or arms with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus, or other appliances or devices, with or
without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniment, antiseptic, oil,
powder, cream, lotion, ointment, or other similar preparations.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who practices or administers massage to the
public who can demonstrate to the issuing authority that he or she:
      (1)   Has current insurance of $500,000 for professional liability in the
practice of massage;
      (2)   Is affiliated with, employed by, or owns a therapeutic massage
enterprise licensed by the city; and
      (3)   Has completed 500 hours of certified therapeutic massage training
with content that includes the subjects of anatomy, physiology, hygiene,
ethics, massage theory and research, and massage practice from an accredited
program or accredited institution that has been approved by the issuing
authority. These training hours must be authenticated by a single provider
through a certified copy of the transcript of academic record from the school
issuing the training, degree or diploma.
   OPERATE. To own, manage, or conduct, or to have control, charge, or custody
over.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, joint
venture, or combination of individuals.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE. A person who operates a business which hires
only licensed therapeutic massage therapists to provide massage to the public.
The owner/operator of a therapeutic massage enterprise need not be licensed as
a therapeutic massage therapist if he or she does not at any time practice or
administer massage to the public.
   WITHIN THE CITY. Includes physical presence as well as telephone referrals
such as phone-a-massage operations in which the business premises, although not
physically located within the city, serves as a point of assignment of
employees who respond to requests for services from within the city.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 638, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 117.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate, engage in, or carry on, within the city, any type of massage
services to the public for consideration without first having obtained a
therapeutic massage enterprise license from the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. It shall be unlawful for any individual to
practice, administer, or provide massage services to the public for
consideration within the city without first having obtained a massage therapist
license from the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A therapeutic massage enterprise or therapist license is not required for
the following persons and places:
   (A)   Persons duly licensed as a doctor by this state to practice medicine,
surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry, provided the
massage is administered in the regular course of the medical business as it
prepares the patient for a medical procedure or complements a medical procedure
previously performed on the patient and not provided as part of a separate and
distinct massage business. Any duly licensed doctor that offers any form of
massage without a direct link to a medical procedure must obtain a massage
license.
   (B)   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a duly
licensed medical professional licensed under M.S. Ch. 147 or 148 or dental
professional licensed under M.S. Ch. 150A, provided the massage is administered
on the premise of the medical business.
   (C)   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home,
hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care
of human beings provided the massage is administered only to the residents or
patients of the facility as part of their care and not provided as a part of a
separate service.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license application. An application for
a therapeutic massage enterprise license shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and issuing authority and shall request the following info:
      (1)   All applicants.
         (a)   Whether the applicant is an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization.
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access, and parking facilities.
         (c)   The floor number, street number, and rooms where the massage
services are to be conducted.
         (d)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amount that are unpaid.
         (e)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans for design are on file with the Building
and Inspection Division, no plans need to be submitted to the issuing
authority.
         (f)   The name and street address of the business if it is to be
conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the name of the
applicant, and a certified copy of the certificate as required by M.S. §
333.02.
         (g)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, buildings, premises, fixtures, furniture, and equipment, and proof of
the source of such investment. The identity of all other persons investing in
the business, building premises, fixtures, furniture and equipment, the amount
of their investment and proof of the source of such investment.
         (h)   Such other information as the City Council or issuing authority
shall require.
      (2)   Individuals.
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, and street residence address
of the applicant.
         (b)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used.
         (c)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien or has the legal authority to work in the United States.
         (d)   Street addresses at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years.
         (e)   The type, name, and location of every business or occupation the
applicant has been engaged in during the preceding five years.
         (f)   Names and addresses of the applicant's employers for the
preceding five years.
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic offense. If so,
the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place and offense, for
which convictions were had.
         (h)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license application is submitted to the issuing authority.
         (i)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
place, and length of time of the involvement in such an establishment.
      (3)   Partnerships. For the applicants that are partnerships: the names
and addresses of all general and limited partners and all information
concerning each general partner as is required in division (2) of this section.
The managing partners shall be designated, and the interest of each general and
limited partner in the business shall be disclosed. A true copy of the
partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application, and if the
partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name under M.S. §
333.02, a certified copy of such certificate shall be submitted. The license
shall be issued in the name of the partnership.
      (4)   Corporations and other organizations. For applicants that are
corporations or other types of organizations:
         (a)   The applicant's name and current address.
         (b)   The applicant's current employer.
         (c)   The applicant's employers for the previous five years, including
the employer's name, address and dates of employment.
         (d)   The applicant's address for the previous five years.
         (e)   The applicant’s date of birth, home telephone number, weight,
height, color of eyes, and color of hair.
         (f)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic offense, and,
if so, the time, place, and offense which convictions were had.
         (g)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual
or as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license that was revoked or suspended within the last five
years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority.
   (B)   Massage therapist license application. An application for a massage
therapist license shall be made on a form supplied by the issuing authority and
shall request the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name and address.
      (2)   The applicant's current employer.
      (3)   The applicant's employers for the previous five years, including
the employer’s name, address, and dates of employment.
      (4)   The applicant's addresses for the previous five years.
      (5)   The applicant's date of birth, home telephone number, weight,
height, color of eyes, and color of hair.
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any felony, crime,
or violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic offense and, if so,
the time, place, and offense for which convictions were had.
      (7)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, as an individual or
as part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or
firm, a massage license that was revoked or suspended within the last five
years of the date the license application is submitted to the issuing
authority.
      (8)   Whether the applicant is a U.S. Citizen or resident alien or has
the legal authority to work in the United States.
      (9)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used.
      (10)   Whether the applicant has met the definition of massage therapist
in this chapter.
      (11)   Such other information as the City Council or issuing authority
shall require.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.06 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for a therapeutic enterprise and therapist licenses shall be as set
forth in the fee schedule in §
36.01 of this code. An investigation fee shall be charged for therapeutic
massage enterprise licenses. Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by payment in full of the required license and investigation fees,
if applicable.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.07 LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION AND CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. The initial application for an
enterprise license under this section shall be presented to the City Council
for consideration, after the issuing authority has verified the information on
the initial license. The issuing authority is empowered to conduct any and all
investigations to verify the information on the application, including ordering
a computerized criminal history inquiry and/or a driver's license history
inquiry on the applicant. The City Council may accept or deny the license
application per this chapter.
   (B)   Massage therapist license.
      (1)   Verification and consideration. Within a reasonable period after
receipt of a complete application and fee for a massage therapist license the
city shall grant or deny the application. The city and/or the Wright County
Sheriff's Office will conduct any and all investigations to verify the
information on the application, including ordering a computerized criminal
history inquiry and/or a driver's license history inquiry on the applicant.
Notice shall be sent by regular mail to the applicant upon a denial informing
the applicant of the right to appeal to the City Council within 20 days. If an
appeal is properly made, the matter shall be placed on the next available City
Council agenda.
      (2)   Photo I.D. cards. Photo identification cards shall be issued to
individuals receiving a therapeutic massage therapist license.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.08 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. No therapeutic massage
enterprise license shall be issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority.
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, and who has not shown
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03,
subd. 3.
      (3)   Has had an interest in, as an individual or as part of a
corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm, a massage
license that was revoked or suspended within the last five years of the date
the license application is submitted to the issuing authority.
      (4)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States.
      (5)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
      (6)   Is not the real party in interest of the enterprise.
      (7)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on the
license application.
      (8)   Cannot meet the definition of therapeutic massage enterprise in §
117.02 of this chapter.
      (9)   Owes taxes or assessments to the state, county, school district, or
city that are due and delinquent.
      (10)   Is the spouse of a person whose massage-related license has been
suspended or revoked in the past five years.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. No massage therapist license shall be
issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the issuing authority.
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, and who has not shown
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03,
subd. 3.
      (3)   Whether the applicant has had an interest in, individually or as
part of a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm,
a massage license that was revoked or suspended within the last five years of
the date the license application is submitted to the issuing authority.
      (4)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States.
      (5)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
      (6)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on the
license application.
      (7)   Is not affiliated with, employed by, or does not own a therapeutic
massage enterprise licensed by the city.
      (8)   Cannot meet the definition of massage therapist in §
117.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.09 LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if such enterprise is located on property on which taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims to the state, county, school district, or city are due and
delinquent. In the event a suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01-278.13,
questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the City Council may on
application waive strict compliance with this provision; no waiver may be
granted, however, for taxes or any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a
period exceeding one year after becoming due.
   (B)   Improper zoning. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if the location of such enterprise has not obtained a conditional use permit or
other required land use approval as outlined in the city's zoning code.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.10 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting of license. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued
must be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it is used.
Upon the demand of the City Administrator or designee, a therapeutic massage
enterprise must also immediately produce a current and complete list of all
licensed massage therapists who are employed by the therapeutic massage
enterprise. A person licensed as a massage therapist shall also post his or her
massage therapist license, with color photo, in a conspicuous place on the
premises at which the therapist is associated. A massage therapist shall
produce his or her massage therapist license upon demand by the City
Administrator or designee.
   (B)   Licensed premises. A therapeutic massage enterprise license is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. If the licensed premises is enlarged, altered, or
extended, the licensee shall inform the city within ten business days. It shall
be the continuing duty of each licensee to properly notify the city, within ten
business days, of any change in the information or facts required to be
furnished on the application for license and failure to comply with this
section shall constitute cause for revocation or suspension of such license.
   (C)   Transfer of license prohibited. The license issued is for the person
or the premises named on the approved license application. No transfer of a
license shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person without
complying with the requirements of an original application.
   (D)   Affiliation with enterprise required. A massage therapist shall be
employed by, affiliated with, or own a massage enterprise business licensed by
the city, unless a person or place is specifically exempted from obtaining a
therapeutic massage enterprise license in §
117.04 of this chapter.
   (E)   Employment of unlicensed massage therapists prohibited. No therapeutic
massage enterprise shall employ or use any person to perform massage who is not
licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist under this section, unless the
person is specifically exempted from obtaining a massage therapist license in §
117.04 of this chapter.
   (F)   Coverage of genitals during massage. The licensee shall require that
the person who is receiving the massage shall at all time have his or her
genitals covered with non-transparent material or clothing.
   (G)   Therapist clothing requirements. Any massage therapist performing a
massage shall at all times be dressed professionally, shall have his or her
breasts, buttocks, anus, and genitals covered with non-transparent material or
clothing, and prominently display or wear their photo identification card.
   (H)   Effect of license suspension or revocation. No licensee shall solicit
business or offer to perform massage services while under license suspension or
revocation by the city.
   (I)   Massage of certain body parts prohibited. At no time shall the massage
therapist intentionally massage or offer to massage the penis, scrotum, mons
veneris, vulva, or vaginal area of a person.
   (J)   Restrictions regarding hours of operation. No therapeutic massage
enterprise shall be open for business, nor will any therapeutic massage
therapist offer massage services, before 6:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. any day
of the week.
   (K)   Proof of local residency required. In the case of a therapeutic
massage enterprise, the licensee, operator, managing partner, or manager of the
licensed premise must show proof of residency within a 50 mile radius of the
City of Monticello.
   (L)   Inspections. In light of the high risk of involvement with illegal
conduct, an establishment providing massage therapy poses to the general public
and in the interests of public safety, the issuing authority, the Building
Inspector, the Fire Marshal, and the Wright County Sheriff's Office shall have
the right to enter, inspect, and search the licensed premises during the hours
in which the licensed premises is open for business to ensure compliance with
all provisions of this section and any other applicable sections of the City
Code and State Building Code. Any entry into a private residence will require
either consent, exigent circumstances, or a search warrant. With reasonable
notice, the business records of the licensee, including income tax returns,
shall be available for inspection during the hours in which the licensed
premises is open for business. The licensee is subject to a fee for a third
inspection per the fee schedule, if orders to correct are issued to the
licensee and those orders are not corrected upon re-inspection. Licenses shall
be granted only to establishments which can meet the safety and sanitary
requirements of the city and of the building code regulations of the city and
state.
   (M)   Posting of rates. All massage enterprise businesses must post their
rates for service in a prominent place in the entrance or lobby of the
business.
   (N)   Illegal activities. In addition to the license restrictions set forth
in this section, any advertising by a licensee of any potential unlawful or
erotic conduct at the licensed establishment shall be prohibited. A licensee
under this chapter shall be strictly responsible for the conduct of the
business being operated in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances,
including the actions of any employee or agent of the licensee on the licensed
premises.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.11 TERM, RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The term of a massage therapist license and a therapeutic massage
enterprise license is one year. If an individual or enterprise submits an
application any time during a calendar year, the term shall expire June 30 of
the year of issuance. The license fee for a partial calendar year may be pro-
rated to one-half of the annual fee if an application is filed with the issuing
authority after December 31.
   (B)   Licenses must be renewed annually and the annual fee will be applied.
A massage therapist license issued under this section shall expire on June 30
of the year of issuance of the license. A therapeutic massage enterprise
license issued under this section shall expire on June 30 of the year of
issuance. An application for the renewal of an existing license shall be made
at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the license and shall be made
in such form as the issuing authority requires.
   (C)   Within a reasonable period after the completion of the renewal license
verification process, the issuing authority shall accept or deny the license
application in accordance with this chapter. If the application is denied, the
city shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing and by regular
mail to the address provided on the application form. The notice shall inform
the applicant of the right, within 20 days after receipt of the notice by the
applicant, to request an appeal of the city's denial to the City Council. If an
appeal to the City Council is timely received by the city, the hearing before
the City Council shall take place within a reasonable period of receipt of the
appeal by the issuing authority.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016; Ord. 647, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 117.12 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation. The City Council may impose an
administrative penalty, suspend or revoke a license issued pursuant to this
section, at its discretion, for:
      (1)   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement
contained in a license application or a renewal application.
      (2)   A violation related to fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement
made in the course of carrying on the licensed occupation or business.
      (3)   Any violation of this code or state law.
      (4)   A violation by any licensee or individual that is directly related
to the occupation or business licensed as defined by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2.
      (5)   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the community.
      (6)   If the owner, operator, manager, lessee, or any of the employees
are found to be in control or possession of a narcotic drug, or controlled
substance on the premises, other than drugs which may be purchased over the
counter without a prescription or those for which the individual has a
prescription.
      (7)   If the holder of an enterprise license fails to maintain with the
issuing authority a current list of all employees of such licensed premises.
The list shall include all massage therapists licensed under this section.
      (8)   A material variance in the actual plan and design of the premises
from the plans submitted.
   (B)   Notice and hearing. A revocation or suspension by the City Council
shall be preceded by written notice to the licensee and a hearing. The notice
shall give at least ten days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice shall be
mailed by regular mail to the licensee at the most recent address listed on the
license application.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 117.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person or entity that violates the provisions of this chapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor under Minnesota law, and shall be punished by a fine or
imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution. Each violation
of this section shall constitute a separate offense. Conviction of a violation
of this chapter, while not required, may be grounds for the suspension or
revocation of any license issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 632, passed 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 118: CANNABIS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section:
   
118.01   Purpose
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Registration required
   
118.04   Consent to inspection
   
118.05   Registration procedure
   
118.06   Limiting of registrations
   
118.07   Registration non-transferable
§ 118.01 PURPOSE.
   The City of Monticello (hereinafter "city") makes the following legislative
findings: The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342, as amended from time to time, which authorizes the city to protect the
public health, safety, welfare of city residents by regulating cannabis
businesses within the legal boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted, terms used herein are defined as in M.S. § 342.01,
as amended from time to time, and the rules promulgated pursuant to M.S. Ch.
342, as amended. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms have the
meanings given them.
   REGISTERED RETAILER. Any cannabis retailer, cannabis microbusinesses with
retail endorsement, cannabis mezzobusiness with retail endorsement, medical
cannabis retailer, medical cannabis combination business, or lower-potency hemp
edible retailer.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No individual or entity may operate a registered retailer within the
city without first being issued a retail registration by Wright County.
   (B)   No registration shall be issued to a registered business unless there
is an available registration for the business under §
118.06 and the registered business complies with all requirements of city
zoning code, including the requirements of §
153.091(A)(4)(c), as well as the adopted building and fire codes.
   (C)   Any registered business that sells to a customer or patient without
valid retail registration shall incur a civil penalty of $2,000 for each
violation.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.04 CONSENT TO INSPECTION.
   All registered businesses shall consent to inspection for compliance with
state law and the city code at any point during business hours, with or without
advance notice. Pursuant to M.S. § 342.22, as amended from time to time, the
county shall conduct at least one unannounced compliance check per year per
registered business.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.05 REGISTRATION PROCEDURE.
   All registered businesses shall follow the registration procedure, including
paying any applicable fees, as set by Wright County.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.06 LIMITING OF REGISTRATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no more than two registered cannabis retailers,
cannabis microbusinesses with a retail endorsement, or cannabis mezzobusinesses
with a retail endorsement operating within the city at any time.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A), no additional cannabis retailers,
cannabis microbusinesses with a retail endorsement, or cannabis mezzobusinesses
with a retail endorsement may register to operate within the city if there is
currently at least one registered cannabis retailer, cannabis microbusiness
with a retail endorsement, or cannabis mezzobusiness with a retail endorsement
per 12,500 residents across Wright County.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 118.07 REGISTRATION NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   Registrations shall be specific to the applicant and location registered,
and shall not be transferred or relocated. Any registered business wishing to
relocate shall be required to submit a new application for a registration for
the new location from Wright County.
(Ord. 837, passed 11-25-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   UNLAWFUL CONDUCT
      
131.   GAMBLING AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
132.   FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Assault
   
130.02   Unlawful assembly
   
130.03   Presence at unlawful assembly
   
130.04   Disorderly conduct
   
130.05   Obstructing legal process or arrest
   
130.06   Minors; possession
   
130.07   Theft
   
130.08   Curfew
   
130.09   Noise
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 ASSAULT.
   Whoever does any of the following commits an assault, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99:
   (A)   Does any act with intent to cause fear in another of immediate bodily
harm or death; or
   (B)   Intentionally inflicts or attempts to inflict bodily harm upon
another.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   When three or more persons assemble, then each participant is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99 if the assembly is:
   (A)   With intent to commit an unlawful act by force;
   (B)   With intent to carry out any purpose in such a manner as will disturb
or threaten the public peace; or
   (C)   Without unlawful purpose, but the participants so conduct themselves
in a disorderly manner as to disturb or threaten the public peace.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PRESENCE AT UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   Whoever, without lawful purpose, is present at the place of an unlawful
assembly and refuses to leave when so directed by a law enforcement officer is
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   Whoever does any of the following in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know that it will or will tend to alarm, anger, or
disturb others or provoke an assault or breach of peace, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
   (B)   Disturbs an assembly or meeting not unlawful in its character; or
   (C)   Looks, peers, or peeps into the window of any structure not in his or
her own property, which structure if occupied or is intended to be occupied as
a residence, or loiters around or within view of any window with the intent of
watching or looking through said window.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 OBSTRUCTING LEGAL PROCESS OR ARREST.
   Whoever intentionally obstructs, hinders, or prevents the lawful execution
of any legal process, civil or criminal, or apprehension of another on a charge
or conviction or a criminal offense, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-5) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 MINORS; POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful for a minor to have in his or her possession any
intoxicating liquor or any non-intoxicating malt liquor with intent to consume
the same at a place other than the household of his or her parent or guardian.
Possession of such intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating malt liquor at a
place other than the household of his or her parent or guardian shall be prima
facie evidence of intent to consume the same at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian. A person violating a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 THEFT.
   Whoever intentionally and without claim or right takes, uses, transfers,
conceals, or retains possession of the property of another where the value of
the property is $100 or less without his or her consent, and with intent to
deprive the owner permanently of possession of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be sentenced as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Wright County Sheriff’s Office.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official
city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting their residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 NOISE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is recognized that loud, unpleasant, raucous, or prolonged
noise has a harmful, debilitating, and detrimental effect upon human beings,
adversely affecting their mental and physical health, safety, and well being.
Loud, unpleasant, raucous, or prolonged noise is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. In an endeavor to provide for the mental and physical health, safety,
and well being and for peaceful repose of the citizens and neighborhoods of the
city, it is hereby declared to be in the public interest that loud, unpleasant,
raucous, and unnecessary or prolonged noise be abated.
   (B)   Prohibited noise. The following are declared to be nuisances affecting
public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes his or her enjoyment of property, or
affects his or her property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at the boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from
which the noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the
noise. (This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions
provided in this section). PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be
detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules. Ch. 7030, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this section by reference;
      (3)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
      (4)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
      (5)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking
of any vehicle; and
      (6)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of
any person nearby.
   (C)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse
in any residential district, except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any
weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (4)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The operation
of any device referred to in division (B)(6) above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (D)   Noise impact statements. The City Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be
considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
   (E)   Enforcement. A peace officer may order all persons present in any
group or gathering from which such noise emanates or other than the owners or
tenants of a dwelling unit to immediately disperse from the party in lieu of
being charged under this section. Refusal to disperse is a violation of the
section.
   (F)   Street noise. No person between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
shall operate a radio, stereo, tape player, or any other mechanical device
other than an automobile engine on the highways, streets, parking lots, alleys,
sidewalks, or other public property within the city which is audible at a
distance of 25 feet.
   (G)   Engine brakes and compression brakes unlawful. It shall be unlawful
within the city for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate or cause to be
used or operated any engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust
device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle which
results in the excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10) (Ord. 745, passed 8-10-2020; Ord. 745A, passed 8-10-
2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   Violation of §
130.09 is a petty misdemeanor punishable by not more than the maximum penalty
as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-10)
(Ord. 22, passed 11-11-1976; Ord. 165, passed 10-11-1988; Ord. 358, passed 1-8-
2001)
CHAPTER 131: GAMBLING AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Lawful Gambling Regulations
   
131.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
131.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
131.03   Purpose
   
131.04   Definitions
   
131.05   Applicability
   
131.06   Gambling prohibited
   
131.07   Lawful gambling permitted
   
131.08   Council approval
   
131.09   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
131.10   Local permits
   
131.11   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
131.12   License and permit display
   
131.13   Notification of material changes to application
   
131.14   Designated trade area
   
131.15   Records and reporting
   
131.16   Hours of operation
Bingo Games
   
131.30   Purpose
   
131.31   Definitions
   
131.32   License required
   
131.33   License applications
   
131.34   Suspension or revocation
   
131.35   Conduct of bingo
   
131.36   Bingo on leased premises
   
131.37   Prizes
   
131.38   Records
   
131.39   Reports
   
131.40   Inspection and investigation
   
131.41   Use of bingo receipts
   
131.42   Use of bingo profits
   
131.43   Exemptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
LAWFUL GAMBLING REGULATIONS
§ 131.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, with
reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this subchapter as if set
out in full. It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments
of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
subchapter was adopted.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-1)
§ 131.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The City Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it
may be amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this
subchapter, additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those
contained in M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-2)
§ 131.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the
city, to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations,
and to provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-3)
§ 131.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
subchapter.
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Monticello.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Monticello.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. The corporate limits of the city and the boundaries of all
townships contiguous to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-4)
§ 131.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except:
   (A)   Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed $10, total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion do not
exceed $200, no more than two bingo occasions are held by the organization or
at the facility each week, only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game, no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo; and
   (B)   Excluded and exempt gambling permits issued on a temporary basis to
qualified non-profit organizations and in accordance with state laws and rules.
Temporary permit applications requiring city signature shall be presented to
City Council for approval within 30 days of receipt of application and prior to
returning a signed permit application to the requesting organization.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-5)
§ 131.06 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person or organization shall conduct gambling within the city unless
licensed by the state or city or specifically exempted by state law or this
subchapter from the license requirement.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be
amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time; and this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-7)
§ 131.08 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved
by the City Council, subject to the provisions of this subchapter and state
law.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-8)
§ 131.09 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application,
together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will
be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a premises permit, the
City Clerk shall have the Gambling Manager complete a background check form and
submit to the city’s designated person for processing.
   (C)   The designated person shall perform the background check and submit
response to the City Clerk as soon as possible following receipt of the
notification to the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for a state issued premises permit shall pay
the city a $100 investigation fee. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified of the date on which the City Council
will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The City Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (G)   The City Council may deny an application for issuance of a premises
permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice and protection of public safety within the last three
years;
      (3)   Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than those for
which an on-sale liquor license has been issued; or
      (4)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-9)
§ 131.10 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
131.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance of a local permit shall be on a form
prescribed by the city.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $25 or as otherwise set by the
City Council in its annual fee ordinance. The fee shall be submitted with the
application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the application
is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a local permit, the
City Clerk shall review the application and may direct the conduct of a
background investigation.
   (E)   The City Council may deny an application for issuance of a local
permit for any of the following reasons specified in §
131.09(G).
(Prior Code, § 3-12-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until written notice and
an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-11)
§ 131.12 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this subchapter shall be prominently
displayed at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-12)
§ 131.13 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state issued premises permit shall notify the city
within ten days in writing whenever any material change is made in the
information submitted on the application.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-13)
§ 131.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall expend
75% or more of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city’s trade area. This section applies only to lawful purpose
expenditures of gross profits derived from gambling conducted at a premise
within the city’s jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-14)
§ 131.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the office of the
City Clerk one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the
Board, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and
rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The
records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be
filed with the Board. Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report
with the city proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements
imposed by §
131.14. The report shall be provided in a manner prescribed by the city and
shall be submitted annually.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-15)
§ 131.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week and shall be consistent with hours of operation at the
business where gambling is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-16) Penalty, see §
131.99
BINGO GAMES
§ 131.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to closely regulate and control the
conduct of the game of bingo and to prohibit commercialization of bingo.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1)
§ 131.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE MEMBER. A member of the organization requesting a license whose dues
are paid for the current membership period and who has been a member for at
least six months.
   BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board for which a
consideration has been paid containing five horizontal rows of spaces with each
row except the central one containing five figures. The central row has four
figures with the word “free” marked in the center space thereof. A player wins
a game of BINGO by completing any pre-announced combination of spaces or, in
the absence of a pre-announcement of a combination of spaces, any combination
of five spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal, or diagonal.
   BINGO OCCASION. A single gathering or session at which a series of one or
more successive bingo games is played.
   ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veteran’s, or other
nonprofit organization which has been in existence for at least three years and
has at least 30 active members.
   PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent, and utilities used during the bingo occasions, bingo
license fees, and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist
in conducting a bingo occasion.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 131.32 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible
organization which has secured a license for that purpose as provided in this
subchapter. An organization which is otherwise eligible for a license need not
secure a license when bingo games are conducted fewer than five times in a
year.
   (B)   (1)   A license shall be valid for 12 calendar months from the date of
issuance.
      (2)   The annual license fee shall be adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other person or
organization. No bingo license shall be transferred to any location other than
the location specified in the license without prior approval by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3) (Ord. 19, passed 9-13-1976; Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981)
§ 131.33 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   Every application for a bingo license shall be made to the City Clerk on a
form supplied by the city and containing such information as the Clerk or the
City Council may require. No person shall make a false statement in an
application. Copies of each application shall be referred to the city’s Police
Chief, Fire Chief, and Building Inspector for their recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 131.34 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke
any bingo license for violation of any provision of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be
amended from time to time, or this subchapter. The holder of the license shall
be granted a hearing upon at least ten days’ notice before revocation or
suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing
and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5)
§ 131.35 CONDUCT OF BINGO.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall appoint a bingo manager to supervise
bingo occasions conduct by it. The bingo manager must be a member of the
licensed organization with dues paid for the current membership period and must
have been a member of the organization for at least two years. The bingo
manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of $10,000 in favor of the
organization conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her duties,
except that the City Council may waive the bond requirement upon a showing by
the proposed bingo manager and the licensed organization that bond is not
required to protect the organization and upon a unanimous vote of the Council.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
Council not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. Each bingo occasion
shall be conducted under the direct supervision of the bingo manager, who shall
be responsible for the conduct of the bingo occasion in compliance with all
applicable laws and ordinances. No person shall act as bingo manager for more
than one organization.
   (B)   One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo occasion. The
checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization or spouses of
active members of the licensed organization. The checker or checkers shall
record the number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the
completion of each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards.
Each checker shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate
and correct to the best of his or her knowledge on forms prescribed by the City
Clerk.
   (C)   Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in connection with
bingo occasions as needed, but no person shall assist in the conduct of a bingo
occasion who is not an active member of the licensed organization or the spouse
of an active member of the licensed organization.
   (D)   No person shall receive more than $12 as compensation for any duties
in connection with any one bingo occasion.
   (E)   No more than 104 bingo occasions each year or two bingo occasions each
week shall be conducted by any licensed organization.
   (F)   A bingo occasion shall not continue for more than four consecutive
hours.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-6)
§ 131.36 BINGO ON LEASED PREMISES.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, or eligible organization which leases any
premises that it owns to two or more eligible organizations for purposes,
including the conduct of bingo occasions, shall not allow more than four bingo
occasions to be conducted on the premises in any week.
   (B)   Any eligible organization which leases any premises to one or more
other eligible organizations for purposes, including the conduct of bingo
occasions, shall use the proceeds of the rental less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings, and other necessary expenses only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used as set out in §
131.42. Not less than once each year the lessor organization shall report to
the City Council the disposition of all receipts which it has received during
the reporting period from the rental of its facilities to other organizations
for purposes, including the conduct of bingo occasions.
   (C)   No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any leased premises
without a written lease for a term at least equal to the remainder of the term
of the bingo license of the lessee organization. Lease payments shall be at a
fixed monthly rate or rate per bingo occasion not subject to change during the
term of the lease. No lease shall provide that rental payments be based on a
percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasions.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-7)
§ 131.37 PRIZES.
   (A)   Prizes for a single bingo game shall not exceed $100 except prizes for
a game of the type commonly known as a “cover-all” game. “Cover-all” prizes may
exceed $100 provided that the aggregate value of the prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $500. The aggregate value of prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $2,500, except that in the case of bingo occasion
during which a “cover-all” game is played for a maximum prize of more than $100
but less than $500, the aggregate value of prizes for the bingo occasion shall
not exceed $3,000. Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market retail
value.
   (B)   Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be awarded
and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-8)
§ 131.38 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross receipts
and profits for each bingo occasion. All deductions from gross receipts from a
bingo occasion shall be documented with receipts of other records. The
distribution of profits shall be itemized as to payee, amount, and date of
payment. Records required by this subchapter shall be preserved for three
years.
   (B)   Gross receipts shall be compared to the checkers’ records for the
bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo occasion. If a
discrepancy exceeding $20 is found between the amount of gross receipts for a
bingo occasion as determined by the checkers’ records and the amount of gross
receipts as determined by totaling the cash receipts, the discrepancy shall be
reported to and investigated by the City Council.
   (C)   Bingo gross receipts shall be segregated from other revenues of an
organization and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall maintain
separate records of its bingo operations. The person who accounts for bingo
gross receipts and profits shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensed organization.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-9)
§ 131.39 REPORTS.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall report monthly to its membership its
gross receipts from bingo, its profits from bingo, and the distribution of
those profits itemized as required by §
131.38.
   (B)   At the time of making its first license application under this
subchapter and on an annual basis thereafter, each licensed organization shall
file with the City Council copies of the following:
      (1)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax, Form 990, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
      (2)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, Exempt Organization Business Income Tax, Form 990-T, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
      (3)   The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by M.S. § 309.53, as it may be amended from time to time,
provided that an organization that is licensed to conduct bingo but is exempt
from submitting this report to the Department of Commerce under M.S. § 309.53,
subd. Ia, as it may be amended from time to time, shall nevertheless submit
such a report under this subdivision;
      (4)   The most recently filed state’s Department of Commerce Statement of
Bingo Operations. All information contained in the statement shall be true,
correct, and complete to the best of the knowledge of the persons signing the
statement; and
      (5)   Any lease agreements required by this act executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement in any report
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.40 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   Any city official or employee having a duty to perform with reference to a
bingo license and any police officer may inspect and examine the bingo records
of any licensed organization upon 24 hours’ notice.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-11)
§ 131.41 USE OF BINGO RECEIPTS.
   No expense shall be incurred or amounts paid in connection with the conduct
of bingo except those reasonably expended for bingo supplies and equipment,
prizes, rent, or utilities used during the bingo occasion, bingo license fees,
and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in conducting a
bingo occasion.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-12)
§ 131.42 USE OF BINGO PROFITS.
   (A)   Profits from any bingo occasion shall be expended only as authorized
by a resolution recorded in the official minutes at a regular meeting of the
licensed organization and only for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Benefitting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious or
education advancement, by relieving or protecting them from disease, suffering,
or distress, by contributing to their physical well being, by assisting them in
establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful citizens, or by increasing
their comprehension of and devotion to the principles upon which this nation
was founded;
      (2)   Initiating, performing, or fostering worthy public works or
enabling or furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures;
      (3)   Lessening the burdens borne by government or voluntarily
supporting, augmenting, or supplementing services which government would
normally render to the people; or
      (4)   The improving, expanding, maintaining, or repairing of real
property owned or leased by the licensed organization.
   (B)   Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection or
acquisition of any real property unless the City Council specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-13)
§ 131.43 EXEMPTIONS.
   Bingo may be conducted without complying with the requirements of §§
131.35(E) and (F) and 131.36 if conducted:
   (A)   In connection with the county fair conducted by the county
agricultural society or in connection with a civic celebration recognized by
resolution of the City Council, provided that bingo shall not be conducted for
more than 12 days during any one county fair or recognized civic celebration;
or
   (B)   By an organization that conducts fewer than five bingo occasions in
any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-14)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
131.01 through
131.16; M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from
time to time; or M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.191, as they may be amended from
time to time, or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be
amended from time to time, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a
fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days,
or both, plus in either case the costs of prosecution. In addition, violations
shall be reported to the Board and recommendation shall be made for suspension,
revocation, or cancellation of an organization’s license.
(Prior Code, § 3-12-17)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
131.30 through
131.43 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-15)
(Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 132: FIREARMS
Section
   
132.01   Hunting
   
132.02   Discharge, carrying firearms
   
132.03   Destruction of diseased, injured, dangerous animals authorized
   
132.04   Licensing of ranges
§ 132.01 HUNTING.
   No person shall hunt, take, capture, shoot, or trap any animals within the
corporate limits of the city unless excepted in §
132.03 of this chapter.
§ 132.02 DISCHARGE, CARRYING FIREARMS.
   No person, except a police officer in the performance of duty, shall, within
the city, discharge any gun, pistol, or firearm of any description or carry any
such weapon, unless it is dismantled or broken apart, or carried in a case in
such a manner that it cannot be discharged. This section does not prevent the
carrying of a hand gun within the city under a permit subject to the
restrictions imposed by law or exception of use at ranges licensed under §
132.04 of this chapter.
§ 132.03 DESTRUCTION OF DISEASED, INJURED, DANGEROUS ANIMALS AUTHORIZED.
   The City Council or the Wright County Sheriff may specifically authorize any
person to destroy diseased, injured or dangerous animals.
§ 132.04 LICENSING OF RANGES.
   All owners of rifle, trap, archery and target ranges available to the
public, shall, be required to obtain a permit to operate such ranges with a fee
prescribed in the city fee schedule ordinance. The shooting of firearms shall
be restricted to between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Violation of
any of the terms of such regulations shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and can be cause for revocation of the license granted under the terms
of the chapter.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   UTILITY EXCAVATIONS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Intent and purpose
   
150.02   Building Code
   
150.03   Application, administration, and enforcement
   
150.04   Permits and fees
   
150.05   Plumbing permit regulations
   
150.06   Waiver of fees for certain disabled veterans
   
150.07   Posting of address numbers
International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.20   Adoption
   
150.21   Application
   
150.22   Amendments
Moving Buildings
   
150.35   Moving buildings; regulations
   
150.36   Variances
Swimming Pool Regulations
   
150.50   Adoption of state regulations
   
150.51   Fees
   
150.52   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This is a subchapter adopting the state’s Building Code. This subchapter
provides for the application, administration, and enforcement of the state’s
Building Code by regulating the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy,
equipment, use, height, area, and maintenance of all buildings and/or
structures in the city; provides for the issuance of permits and collection of
fees thereof; provides penalties for violation thereof; and repeals all
ordinances and parts of ordinances that conflict therewith.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The state’s Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101
through 326B.194, as they may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted
as the building code for this jurisdiction.
   (B)   The code, its supplements, amendments, additions, addenda,
alterations, subtractions, and revisions as currently adopted and which may in
the future be adopted and incorporated as part of the code, is hereby confirmed
as the building code of the city and hereby incorporated in this subchapter as
if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 391, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 150.03 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with the state’s Building Code. The code shall be enforced within
the incorporated limits of the city, and any extra-territorial limits permitted
by M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time, when so established
by this subchapter.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the
Department of Building Safety. A state certified Building Official must be
appointed by the City Council to administer the code.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 391, passed 6-9-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Building Official, see M.S. § 326B.133
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326B.121, as it may be amended from time to time, and as
provided for in the Minnesota State Building Code and Minn. Rules parts
1305.0106 and 1305.0107.
   (B)   Permit fees assessed for work governed by this code shall be
established by the City Council.
   (C)   A surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 391, passed 6-9-2003)
§ 150.05 PLUMBING PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   Prior to the installation by any person, corporation, or public agency, of a
system of plumbing that serves any considerable number of persons, or any
plumbing system that shall affect the public health in any manner, complete
plans and specifications, together with any additional information that the
Building Official may require, shall be submitted in duplicate and approved by
the Building Official. The appraisal of the Building Official shall reflect the
degree to which these plans and specifications affect the public health and
conform to the provisions of the state’s Plumbing Code. No constructions shall
proceed except in accordance with the approved plans. Any alteration or
extension of an existing plumbing system shall be subject to these same
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 293, passed 5-27-1997)
§ 150.06 WAIVER OF FEES FOR CERTAIN DISABLED VETERANS.
   (A)   Findings and intent. The city hereby finds that the men and women who
gave their service in the Unites States Armed Forces are in need of our honor
and respect. These men and women have paid for the country’s freedom by giving
up their families, lives they knew, and their flesh and their blood to ensure
the preservation of democracy. Many of these veterans have returned to their
families, friends, and homes with special needs directly related to their
performed duties. The city honors these individual sacrifices by waiving the
permit fees for remodeling projects and building modifications needed to an
existing structure.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERMANENT OR LONG-TERM DISABILITY. A physical disability that is
medically expected to exist for a period of 12 months or longer.
      QUALIFIED VETERAN. An individual that has received an honorable discharge
from the United States Armed Forces and has served during a conflict of war,
United Nations called action, or homeland security event, and has received a
DD214 or FL-B02 and service-connected disability rating from the federal
government.
      QUALIFYING EVENT. An injury that is directly related to active duty in
the Unites States Armed Forces, including training accidents, combat injuries,
and other duties of service that may cause harm. Off duty injuries shall not
qualify.
      REMODELING PROJECT. A remodeling project to a pre-existing residential
structure that is the primary residence of the individual requesting the
waiver.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, designated
exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, and boarding
houses either owned or occupied by a qualified veteran.
   (C)   Waiver of permit fees. A qualified veteran that has a permanent or
long-term disability as the result of a qualifying event may apply for and be
granted a waiver of city building permit fees for a remodeling project to a
residential dwelling unit that are necessary to allow for the general comfort
and well being of the individual within his or her personal residence.
   (D)   Application and documentation.
      (1)   If the property is not owned by the applicant, a notarized
statement from the fee owner(s) authorizing the modification must be included
with the wavier application. The notarized statement shall include the address,
parcel identification number, and legal description of the parcel.
      (2)   The waiver application shall be submitted within 48 months of
discharge from active duty and shall state the purpose statement regarding the
necessity of the remodeling project to a residential dwelling unit.
      (3)   An applicant must submit a written request 30 days before
expiration of the building permit to extend the building permit fee waiver. The
extension request shall state the reasons for not completing the building
modifications or remodeling project within the required time period.
      (4)   Other documents as may be deemed necessary by the city’s Building
Official with respect to issuance of the building permit.
   (E)   Issuance of the waiver of a building permit fee. The city’s Building
Official shall issue the waiver upon receipt of a complete application provided
that a determination has been made that the waiver complies with the applicable
laws and provisions.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 483, passed 5-27-2008)
§ 150.07 POSTING OF ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   (A)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. If the building is so constructed that the numbering is
not readily visible from the street, then the street numbering shall also
appear at the street entrance to the building. These numbers shall contrast
with their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet
letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches (102 mm) high with a minimum
stroke width of one-half inch (12.7 mm).
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
   (B)   Distance and size requirements. The following shall apply to
commercial, industrial, and institutional signage.
 
Distance Behind Curb Minimum Address Sign Size Required
0 - 49 feet          4 in.
50 - 74 feet         4 in. + 1 in.
75 - 99 feet         4 in. + 2 in.
100 - 199 feet       4 in.+ 3 in.
200 - 299 feet       4 in. + 4 in.
300 + feet           4 in. + 6 in.
 
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2)
(Ord. 475, passed 3-24-2008)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.20 ADOPTION.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, as published by
the International Code Council, is adopted by reference in its entirety except
as amended in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 150.21 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all existing residential
and non-residential structures and all existing premises.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
§ 150.22 AMENDMENTS.
   The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, is adopted with
the following amendments.
   Section 102.1 Title. Amended to read: These regulations shall be known as
the Property Maintenance code of the City of Monticello, hereinafter referred
to as “this code.”
   Section 102.1 General. Amended to read: The provisions of this code shall
apply to all matters affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set
forth in Section 101. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this
code specify different requirements, or if there is a conflict between the
requirements of this code and other ordinances of the city, the most
restrictive shall govern.
   Section 102.3 Application of other codes. Amended to read: Repairs,
additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done
in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the Minnesota State
Building Code. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set
aside any provision of the City of Monticello Code of Ordinances.
   Section 202.7 Referenced codes and standards. Amended to read: The codes and
standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 8
and considered part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent
of each such reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this code
and the referenced standards, the most restrictive shall apply.
   Section 103.2 Appointment. Amended to read: The Chief Building Official
shall serve as the “code official”.
   Section 103.5 Fees. Amended to read: The fees for activities and services
performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this
code shall be as indicated in the City of Monticello Fee Schedule Ordinance.
   Section 107.2 Form. Subpart 5. Deleted.
   Section 107.2 Form. Subpart 6. Deleted.
   Section 112.6.3 Limitations of authority. Amended by adding new section to
read: The board of appeals shall have no authority to waive fire and life
safety requirements or to approve a condition that would create a violation of
the Minnesota State Building Code.
   Section 201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Amended to read: Where terms are
not defined in this code and are defined in the Minnesota State Building Code
or elsewhere in the City of Monticello Ordinances, such terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   Section 202 General definitions. Amended by adding: Junk Vehicle: A vehicle
without a valid current license, or without a valid current registration (if
applicable), or which is apparently inoperable located outside an enclosed
building in a residential area including, but not limited to, automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles, snowmobiles, trailers, all-terrain vehicles and
watercraft.
   Inoperative Motor Vehicle. Deleted.
   Section 302.4 Weeds. Amended to read: All premises and exterior property
shall be maintained free from weeds or plant growth in excess of eight (8)
inches in height. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited. Weeds shall be defined
as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than trees or shrubs
provided; however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with §
91.04 of the Monticello City Ordinances.
   Section 302.8 Motor vehicles. Amended to read: except as provided in other
regulations, no junk vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises
unless within a totally enclosed structure. No vehicle shall at any time be in
a state of major disassembly, disrepair or in the process of being stripped or
dismantled. Spray painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an
approved spray booth.
   Exception. Any vehicle is permitted to undergo major overhaul, including
body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or similarly
enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes. Automotive maintenance
and repair shall be limited to the owners/occupants who reside at that address.
   Section 304.14 Insect screens. Amended to read: During the period from April
1 to October 31, every door, window and other outside opening in a commercial
establishment required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or
stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than
16 mesh per inch and every screen door used for insect control shall have a
self-closing device in good working condition. Screens used for insect control
must be maintained in good condition, securely held in place, and free from
holes or tears.
    Exception. Deleted.
   Section 304.15.1 Landings. Amended by adding new section to read: Exterior
doors, other than storm doors, must swing over a floor or landing of at least
the width of the door opening, extending from the threshold for a distance of
at least equal to the door width, and must not be more than eight inches below
the height of the door threshold.
   Section 305.7 Food preparation. Amended by adding new section to read: All
spaces to be occupied for food preparation purposes shall contain suitable
space and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner.
There shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of
food wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage.
   Section 308.1 Infestation. Amended by adding: Once exterminated, all
carcasses, offal material, fecal matter, etc. must be removed and all surfaces
and materials shall be cleaned and sanitized at the direction of the code
official.
   Section 308.2 Owner. Amended by adding: The owner is also responsible for
maintaining the exterior envelope of the structure by sealing or repairing all
defects, cracks, gaps, holes and other openings in the foundation and/or other
building materials that may allow pests to enter the structure.
   Section 401.3 Alternative devices. Amended to read: in lieu of the means for
natural light and ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical
ventilation complying with the Minnesota State Building Code shall he
permitted.
   Section 404.4.1 Room area. Amended to read: Every bedroom occupied by one
person shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every bedroom
occupied by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
area for each occupant thereof. Every living room shall comply with Table
404.5.
   Section 404.5 Overcrowding. Amended to read: Dwelling units shall not be
occupied by more occupants than permitted by the minimum area requirements of
Table 404.5. The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit shall not create
conditions that, in the opinion of the code official, endanger the life,
health, safety or welfare of the occupants.
Table 404.5
Minimum Area Requirements
Space Minimum Area in Square Feet
      1-2 Occupants 3-5 Occupants 6 or More Occupants
Space          Minimum Area in Square Feet
               1-2 Occupants   3-5 Occupants 6 or More Occupants
Living room1,2 No requirements 120           150
Dining room1,2 No requirements 80            100
Kitchen2       50              50            60
Bedrooms       Shall comply with. Section 404.4.1
Notes:
1.   See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
2.   See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
 
   Section 404.5.1 Sleeping area. Amended by adding new section to read: The
minimum occupancy area required by Table 404.5 shall not be included as a
sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area for sleeping purposes.
All sleeping areas shall comply with Section 404.4.
   Section 404.5.2 Combined spaces. Amended by adding new section to read:
Combined living room and dining room spaces shall comply with the requirements
of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to that required for separate rooms
and if the space is located so as to function as a combination living room/
dining room.
   Section 505.1 General. Amended by replacing “International Plumbing Code”
with “Minnesota State Plumbing Code.”
   Section 602.2 Residential occupancies. Amended to read: Dwellings shall be
provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a minimum room
temperature of 68° F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms when
the outdoor temperature is -20° F or warmer. Cooking appliances shall not be
used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
   Exception: Deleted.
   Section 602.3 Heat supply. Amended to read: Every owner and operator of any
building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units
on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply heat during the period from September 1 to May 31 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 68° F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and
toilet rooms.
     Exceptions:
      1.   When the outdoor temperature is below -20° F, maintenance of the
minimum room temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system
is operating at its full design capacity.
      2.   Deleted.
   Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Deleted.
   Section 603.1.1 Appliance testing. Amended by adding new section to read:
Central heating appliances shall be tested by a licensed mechanical contractor
to verify that the appliance is in a safe working condition when evidence of
malfunction, corrosion, deterioration or excessive interior carbon monoxide is
suspected.
   Section 603.2 Removal of combustion products. Amended to read: All fuel-
burning equipment and appliances intended for heating shall be connected to an
approved chimney or vent to the exterior of the structure.
   Section 604.2 Service. Amended by replacing “ICC Electrical Code” with
“Minnesota State Electrical Code.”
   Section 702.1 General. Amended by replacing “International Fire Code” with
“Minnesota State Fire Code.”
   Section 702.2 Aisles. Amended by replacing “International Fire Code” with
“Minnesota State Fire Code.”
   Section 702.3 Locked doors. Amended by replacing “International Building
Code” with “Minnesota State Building Code.”
   Section 704.1 General. Amended to read: All systems, devices and equipment
to detect a fire, actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any
combination thereof shall be installed and maintained in an operable condition
at all times in accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
   Section 704.2 Smoke alarms. Amended by replacing “International Fire Code”
with “Minnesota State Fire Code.”
   Chapter 8 ICC references. All references to the International Building,
Fire, Fuel Gas, Mechanical, Plumbing, and Electrical Codes shall mean the
applicable chapters of the Minnesota State Building Code. All references to the
International Zoning Code shall mean the applicable chapters of the City of
Monticello Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3) (Ord. 464, passed 7-23-2007)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.35 MOVING BUILDINGS; REGULATIONS.
   No building or structure shall be hereafter moved into or within the city
except under the following conditions.
   (A)   Any persons desiring to move buildings or structures into the city
shall apply for such permit to the Clerk and shall at the time of the
application pay therefor a fee as adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   The structures shall not be of over ten years of age and must be
constructed in compliance with all of the presently operating codes and
ordinances of the city.
   (C)   If the proposed location of the construction or structure is on a lot
in an existing subdivision, he or she must first obtain approval of the six
nearest resident property owners.
   (D)   A building permit or permits as required as to any other construction
in the city shall be required in addition to the permit to move the structure
into the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) (Ord. 70, passed 7-9-1979; Ord. 107, passed 11-23-1981)
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36 VARIANCES.
   Any person seeking variance must follow the procedures set forth in the
application for rezoning.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-2)
SWIMMING POOL REGULATIONS
§ 150.50 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   The state’s Health Department regulations on design, construction,
operation, and maintenance of public swimming and wading pools and the state’s
Health Department regulations on design and construction of private fixed pools
ordinance, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Administrator, is hereby adopted as the swimming pool ordinance of the city for
the purpose of regulating the installation, alteration, maintenance, and repair
of all swimming pools and for all buildings, providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees thereof, providing penalties for violation of
such ordinance. Every regulation, provision, penalty, condition, and term
contained in this chapter is hereby adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this chapter except as hereinafter modified.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 150.51 FEES.
   For fee schedule, see building permit schedule in
Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2)
§ 150.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official or other qualified and authorized representative of
the City Council shall enforce the provisions of the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.07 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not
more than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 358, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 151: UTILITY EXCAVATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Utility excavation permit
   
151.03   Application for permit
   
151.04   Permit fee
   
151.05   Utility excavation placard
   
151.06   Surety bond
   
151.07   Exemption from surety bond
   
151.08   Public Works Director
   
151.09   Emergency action
   
151.10   Non-completion or abandonment
   
151.11   Insurance
   
151.12   Indemnification
   
151.13   Exemption from fee payment and insurance provisions
   
151.14   Refusal of permits
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
discretionary.
   APPLICANT. Any person making written application to the Public Works
Director for an excavation permit hereunder.
   EXCAVATION WORK. The excavation and other work permitted related to water
distribution, wastewater collection, and stormwater collection and distribution
under a utility excavation permit and required to be performed under this
chapter.
   PERMITTEE. Any person or company who has been granted and has in full force
and effect a utility excavation permit issued hereunder.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   STREET. Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, or other public right-
of-way or grounds or public easements in the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.02 UTILITY EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, break, excavate, tunnel,
drill, bore, undermine, or in any manner break up any street or to make or
cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface of any street or to
place, deposit, or leave upon any street any earth or excavated material
obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street, unless
such person shall first have obtained a utility excavation permit therefor from
the Public Works Director as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No utility excavation permit shall be issued unless a written
application for the issuance of a utility excavation permit on forms provided
for that purpose is submitted to the Public Works Director. The written
application shall state the name, address, and phone number of the applicant,
the nature, location, and purpose of the excavation, and date of commencement
and date of completion of the excavation, and other data as may reasonably be
required by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   If required by the Public Works Director, the application shall be
accompanied by plans showing the extent of the proposed excavation work, the
dimensions and elevations of both the existing ground prior to the excavation
and of the proposed excavated surfaces, the location of the excavation work,
and the other information as may be prescribed by the Public Works Director.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.04 PERMIT FEE.
   Upon approval of the application for the utility excavation permit by the
Public Works Director, the applicant shall pay a fee set by the City Council to
the city to cover reasonable costs for the issuance of the utility excavation
permit.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.05 UTILITY EXCAVATION PLACARD.
   The Public Works Director shall provide each permittee, at the time the
permit is issued, a suitable placard which shall state the permittee’s name,
the permit number, and the date of expiration. It shall be the duty of any
permittee hereunder to keep the placard posted in a conspicuous place at the
site of the excavation work. It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit the
placard at or about any excavation not covered by the permit or to misrepresent
the permit number of the date of expiration.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 SURETY BOND.
   Before a utility excavation permit is issued, the applicant shall deposit
with the Clerk a surety bond in the amount of $2,000 in favor of the city or
one-and-a-half times the estimated cost of any excavation(s) and restoration,
whichever is greater:
   (A)   With good and sufficient surety by a surety company authorized to do
business in the state;
   (B)   Satisfactory to the City Attorney in form and substance;
   (C)   Conditioned that the applicant will faithfully comply with all the
terms and conditions of this chapter; all rules, regulations, and requirements
pursuant thereto and as required by the Public Works Director; and all
reasonable requirements of the Public Works Director; and
   (D)   (1)   Conditioned that the applicant will secure and hold the city and
its officers harmless against any and all claims, judgements, or other costs
arising from the excavation permit or for which the city, the City Council, or
any city officer may be made liable by reason of any accident or injury to
persons or property through the fault of the permittee.
      (2)   Recovery on the surety bond for any injury or accident shall not
exhaust the bond, but it shall in its entirety cover any or all future
accidents or injuries during the excavation work for which it is given.
      (3)   In the event of any suit or claim against the city by reason of the
negligence or default of the permittee, upon the city given written notice to
the permittee of such suit or claim, any final judgment against the city
requiring it to pay for such damage shall be conclusive upon the permittee and
his or her surety.
      (4)   An annual bond may be given under this provision which shall remain
in force for one year, conditioned as above, in the amount specified herein and
in other respects as specified herein but applicable as to all excavation work
in streets by the permitted during the term of one year from the date.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.07 EXEMPTION FROM SURETY BOND.
   The surety bond provisions shall not apply to any excavation made under a
contract awarded by the city or made by the city, or to any excavation
performed directly by any public utility permitted to operate within the city
limits, franchise or otherwise, for the purpose of supplying natural gas,
electric, or telephone services. This exception only applies to excavation
performed directly by the public utility, and a surety bond is required if work
is performed by a subcontractor of any public utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 151.08 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   All work done pursuant to a utility excavation permit issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be performed under the direction and to the
satisfaction of the Public Works Director or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall prepare the regulations with respect
to excavations within any street and shall modify them with respect to
particular work as the Public Works Director shall deem necessary or advisable
to protect the public from injury, to prevent damage to public or private
property, and to minimize interference with the public use of the streets.
   (C)   Regulations promulgated by the Public Works Director shall be approved
by the City Council after notice of hearing and a copy of the regulations shall
be given to each permittee upon issuance of the street excavation permit.
   (D)   Regulations promulgated by the Public Works Director may include:
      (1)   Requirement that all public utilities be notified by the permittee
of permittee’s intent to make a street excavation giving notice of time, place,
and purpose of the excavation;
      (2)   Requirement that the permittee shall have the duty of determining
the location and depth of all existing underground facilities;
      (3)   Manner and method of backfilling street excavation and procedure to
be followed in compacting backfilled material;
      (4)   Specifications as to material to be used in backfilling street
excavation;
      (5)   Manner and method of making street excavation, including procedures
to safeguard and protect adjoining and adjacent property and existing
underground and above ground facilities; and
      (6)   Requirements for restoration of street surfaces.
   (E)   Special provisions shall be made for simplifying procedures and
supervision in respect to excavations by franchised utilities.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.09 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   In the event of any emergency in which a main, conduit, or utility
facility in or under any street breaks, bursts, or otherwise is in such
condition as to immediately endanger the property, life, health, or safety of
any individual, the person owning or controlling the main, conduit, or utility
facility without first applying for and obtaining a utility excavation permit
hereunder shall immediately take proper emergency measures to cure or remedy
the dangerous conditions for the protection of property, life, health, and
safety of individuals.
   (B)   However, the person owning or controlling the facility shall apply for
a utility excavation permit not later than the end of the next succeeding day
during which the Public Works Director’s office is open for business and shall
not proceed with permanent repairs without first obtaining an excavation permit
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9) (Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.10 NON-COMPLETION OR ABANDONMENT.
   Work shall progress in an expeditious manner until completion in order to
avoid necessary inconvenience to the general public. In the event that the work
shall not be performed in accordance with the applicable regulations of the
Public Works Director or in accordance with the provisions hereof, or shall
cease or be abandoned without due cause, the city may, after six hours’ notice
in writing to the holder of the permit of intent to do so, correct the work or
fill the excavation and repair the street, and in any such event the entire
cost to the city of the work shall be a liability of and shall be paid by the
person to whom the permit was issued and his or her surety.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 151.11 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Liability insurance. A permittee, prior to the commencement of
excavation work hereunder, shall furnish the Public Works Director satisfactory
evidence in writing that the permittee has in force and will maintain in force
during the performance of the excavation work and the period of the utility
excavation permit public liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000 for
each occurrence and $1,000,000 for general aggregate, duly issued by an
insurance company authorized to do business in the state and on which policy
the city is named as co-insured (additional insured) and $500,000 minimum
automobile liability insurance.
   (B)   Worker’s compensation insurance. The contractor shall provide Worker’s
Compensation Insurance for all its employees and, in case any work is sublet,
the contractor shall require the subcontractor to provide worker’s compensation
insurance in accordance with statutory requirements. Employer’s liability limit
shall be a minimum of $100,000.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11) (Ord. 278, passed 5-13-1996; Ord. 549, passed 2-27-2012)
§ 151.12 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The permittee shall indemnify, keep, and hold the city free and harmless
from liability on account of injury or damage to persons or property arising or
growing out of the permittee’s negligence in making any street excavation. In
the event that suit shall be brought against the city, either independently or
jointly with the permittee on account thereof, the permittee, upon notice to it
by the city, shall defend the city in any suit at the cost of the permittee;
and in the event of a final judgment being obtained against the city, either
independently or jointly with the permittee, the permittee shall pay the
judgment with all costs and hold the city harmless therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
§ 151.13 EXEMPTION FROM FEE PAYMENT AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter requiring payment of a permit fee and
evidence of public liability and property damage insurance shall not be
applicable to any excavation work carried on by the city or its employees.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
§ 151.14 REFUSAL OF PERMITS.
   If any person shall fail, refuse, or neglect to comply with the provisions
of this chapter or any rules or regulations of the Public Works Director in
reference thereto, the Public Works Director may refuse to issue further permit
to such person until the conditions or orders are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-14) (Ord. 108, passed 11-23-1981)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Scope
   
152.004   Conditions for recording
   
152.005   Effect of provisions on other permits and agreements
   
152.006   Severability
   
152.007   Exceptions
   
152.008   Interpretation
   
152.009   Rules
   
152.010   Definitions
   
152.011   Amendment
   
152.012   Variances
Procedure
   
152.025   Pre-application
   
152.026   Procedure for preliminary plat
   
152.027   Procedure for final plat
Data Required for Preliminary and Final Plats
   
152.040   Preliminary plat
   
152.041   Final plat
Subdivision Design Standards
   
152.055   Conformity with other standards
   
152.056   Interpretation of requirements
   
152.057   Land requirements
   
152.058   Blocks
   
152.059   Lots
   
152.060   Streets and alleys
   
152.061   Easements
   
152.062   Erosion and sediment control drainage
   
152.063   Drainage
   
152.064   Steep slopes
   
152.065   Wetland systems
   
152.066   Open space and landscaping
   
152.067   Protected areas
   
152.068   Mail and paper box locations
Parks, Open Space, and Public Use
   
152.080   Dedication requirements
   
152.081   Cash contribution
   
152.082   Combination of land dedication and cash contribution
   
152.083   Delayed dedication payment
   
152.084   Purchase or condemnation of lands
   
152.085   Location and configuration of dedication
Basic Required Improvements
   
152.100   General
   
152.101   Construction improvements
   
152.102   Street improvements
   
152.103   Sanitary sewer and water distribution improvements
   
152.104   Grading, drainage and stormwater management
   
152.105   Utilities
   
152.106   Monument and survey requirements
   
152.107   Pathways
   
152.108   Other improvements
Registered Land Surveys and Conveyance by Metes and Bounds
   
152.120   Registered land surveys
   
152.121   Conveyance by metes and bounds
Fees
   
152.135   Base fee per application
   
152.136   Staff and consultant fee
   
152.137   Payment
Violations
   
152.150   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats
   
152.151   Receiving or recording unapproved plats
   
152.152   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision, or inspection of
improvements
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Monticello”, and will be referred to herein as “this chapter”.
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to assist the
subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the city at large,
the following chapter is adopted in order that adherence to same will bring
results beneficial to both parties.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to:
      (1)   Encourage well planned, efficient, and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
      (2)   Provide for the health and safety and general welfare of residents
by requiring the necessary services such as properly designed streets and
adequate sewage and water service;
      (3)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting from their
construction;
      (4)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters; and
      (5)   Make certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land
within the city pursuant to the authority contained in Minnesota Statutes
Annotated, including M.S. § 462.358 and M.S. Ch. 505, as they may be amended
from time to time, which regulations the City Council deems necessary for the
health, safety, and general welfare of this community.
§ 152.003 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter relate to any division of a tract of land
into two or more parcels by platting, replatting, conveyance, registered land
survey, or other means, and the combination or recombination of parcels that
for which compliance with the zoning ordinance would be affected.
§ 152.004 CONDITIONS FOR RECORDING.
   No plat or any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Register of Deeds office or have any validity until the plat thereof has been
prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
§ 152.005 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS ON OTHER PERMITS AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. No building permits will be considered for issuance by the
city for the construction of any building, structure, or improvement to the
land or to any lot in a subdivision as defined herein until all requirements of
this chapter have been fully complied with.
   (B)   Private agreements. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or any other private agreement provided that where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements on an easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
§ 152.006 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any provision of
this chapter, then such judgment shall not affect the validity and continued
enforcement of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the application of
any provision of this chapter to a particular property, structure, or
situation, then such judgment shall not affect the application of that
provision to any other building, structure, or situation not specifically
included in that judgment.
   (C)   If any court of competent jurisdiction rules invalid any condition
attached to an approval under this chapter, then such judgment shall not affect
any other conditions or requirements attached to the same approval that are not
specifically included in that judgment.
   (D)   No judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction shall be considered
final until all appeals therefore have been exhausted.
§ 152.007 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When requesting a subdivision, combination, or recombination, if any
of the following conditions exist, the subdivider is required to present
accurately drawn site and certified survey plan information for the proposed
subdivision, combination, or recombination, have the subdivision, combination,
or recombination reviewed by the Planning Commission, reviewed and approved by
the City Council, and adhere to the park dedication requirements of §§
152.080 through
152.085.
      (1)   A division which results in commercial or industrial parcels having
an area of five acres or more with frontage on a public right-of-way measuring
300 feet or more and which does not result in the division of the parcel into
two or more lots, any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet
in width and which does not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-
way. Such division shall not cause any structure on the lot to be in violation
of the zoning ordinance or said new portions of lots to be in violation of city
ordinance.
      (2)   Division of one previously platted parcel into no more than two
buildable parcels, both of which will be in full conformance with all
applicable zoning regulations, and for which no public right- of-way,
easements, or other drainage concerns are evident to the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary
and for which no public right-of-way, easements, or other drainage concerns are
evident to the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Division of an existing lot of record where the division is to
permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or lots and the newly
created property line will not cause the other remaining portion of the lot to
be in violation with this chapter or the zoning ordinance, and for which no
public right-of-way, easements, or other drainage concerns are evident to the
Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Combination of two or more parcels of record to create a parcel
conforming to the requirements of the applicable zoning district and for which
no public right-of-way, easements, or other drainage concerns are evident to
the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Any easements which become unnecessary as a result of the division or
combination must be vacated. In addition, new easements must be established as
determined by the City Engineer.
   (C)   In the event that the County Recorder shall refuse to record an
administrative subdivision due to the legal description of the proposed parcels
or for any other reason, the applicant shall be required to comply with all of
the requirements of §§
152.026 and
152.040 for preliminary plats.
§ 152.008 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare. Where the provisions
of this chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any other ordinance,
code provision, or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be
controlling.
   (B)   Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or code
provision, or regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the
provisions of the statute, other ordinance or code provision, or regulation
shall be controlling.
§ 152.009 RULES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular; and the word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property
   APPLICANT. The owner, the owner’s agent, or any other person having legal
control, ownership, and/or interest in the land proposed to be subdivided.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of a street right-of-way between the limit of the
public right-of-way and the curbline, which may include pathways.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A document prepared by a registered land surveyor
which precisely describes the area, dimensions, and location of a parcel or
parcels of land.
   CITY. The City of Monticello.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of Monticello.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer employed or retained by the city, unless
otherwise stated.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Refers to the group of maps, charts, and texts that make
up the comprehensive long-range plan of the city.
   COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
   CROSSWALK. A right-of-way owned by the city or other governmental entity
which provides access for pedestrians across a street to adjacent streets or
properties.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements, and lots.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written agreement between city and applicant in
conjunction with the approval by the city of a subdivision.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining drives, and utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, communication lines, storm
sewer, or storm drainage ways and gas lines, wetlands, conservation easements,
and pathways, including sidewalks and trails.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by the county for the
purposes of recording.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage or stormwater facility, roadway, parkway,
sidewalk, trail, pathway or crossing, landscaping, lighting, off-street parking
area, grading, utility, lot improvement, or other similar facility.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device.
   INSPECTOR. An authorized representative of the City Council assigned to make
any or all necessary inspection of the work performed and materials furnished
by a developer.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is a part of a subdivision the plat of which
has been recorded in the County Recorder’s office, or a lot described by metes
and bounds the deed to which has been recorded in the County Recorder’s office,
at the time this chapter becomes effective.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of the section, lot, or real property by described lines or portions
thereof.
   OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land after platting which is intended as
open space or other use and for which no building permit shall be issued.
   OWNER. Includes the plural as well as the singular and where appropriate
shall include a natural person, partnership, firm, association, syndicate, co-
partnership, public or quasi-public corporation, private corporation, trust, or
a combination of them having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under this chapter.
   PARCEL. An individual lot or tract of land.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes.
   PATHWAY. A public or private facility or area providing access for a variety
of non-motorized uses, including, but not limited to, pedestrians and bicycles,
which may be a paved or unpaved trail or sidewalk facility and its related
appurtenant facilities.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE. On street centerline, means the distance vertically (up
or down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of
horizontal distance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A detailed drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement for which the city does not assume
ownership or the responsibility for maintenance operation, but which instead is
owned, maintained, and operated by a private property owner or group of private
property owners.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement for which the city may ultimately assume
the ownership and responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may
affect an improvement for which local government responsibility is established.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, pathway,
railroad, utility lines, pipelines, water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm
sewer lines, or other similar uses.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and a street,
lot line, ordinary highwater mark, or bluff line. Distances are measured from
the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at ground level.
   SIDEWALK. A paved public or private pedestrian way located between the
curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STREET. The public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, lane, place, or boulevard, or otherwise
designated.
      (1)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street carrying larger volumes of traffic and
serving as a link between various sub-areas of the community. These streets are
intended to provide a collection and distribution of traffic between highways
and collector streets; hence regulation of direct access to property is
critical.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from local streets
to the major system of arterial streets and highways. COLLECTOR STREETS
primarily provide principal access to residential neighborhoods, including a
lesser degree, direct land access.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A local street with only one outlet and having
an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
      (4)   LOCAL STREET. A street which is used primarily for access to
abutting properties and for local traffic movement.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust, or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels, the purpose of transfer of ownership or
building development of, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the
context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided.
   TRAIL. A public or private right-of-way providing access for a variety of
non-motorized uses including pedestrians and bicycles which may be a paved or
unpaved trail and its related appurtenant facilities.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this chapter as
applicable to a specific piece of property. Modification of the allowable use
within a district shall not qualify as a VARIANCE.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows, such as
rivers, streams, ditches, or creeks and may flow year-round or intermittently.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The individual(s) assigned by the City Administrator
or City Council charged with the responsibility of administering and enforcing
this chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the city.
§ 152.011 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Before any amendment is adopted, the Planning Commission shall hold at
least one public hearing after proper notice has been issued. Following the
hearing, the Planning Commission shall adopt findings and recommendations on
the proposed amendment as soon as practical. The City Clerk may forward the
application to the City Council without a recommendation from the Planning
Commission only if it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with state
mandated deadlines for application review.
   (B)   The City Council may hold a public hearing on the amendment if deemed
necessary by the City Clerk. After consideration of the Planning Commission
recommendation and hearing, the Council may adopt the amendment or any part
thereof in such form as it deems advisable.
   (C)   Approval of an amendment shall require a majority vote of all members
of the City Council.
§ 152.012 VARIANCES.
   Variances to this chapter shall be processed and reviewed per the city’s
zoning ordinance, Chapter 2, § 4(C).
PROCEDURE
§ 152.025 PRE-APPLICATION.
   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat, the applicant or owners may
meet with the Zoning Administrator, and other appropriate officials in order to
be made fully aware of all applicable ordinances, regulations, and plans in the
area to be subdivided. At this time, or at subsequent informal meetings, the
applicant may submit for informal, non-binding comment a general concept plan
of the proposed subdivision. The concept plan can be presented in simple form
but should show that consideration has been given to the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to existing city facilities, to neighboring subdivisions
and developments, to the topography of the site, and to the suitability of
proposed transportation, drainage, and utility systems.
§ 152.026 PROCEDURE FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   Per the published application calendar, the applicant shall file a
request for preliminary plat approval and the accompanying fee and escrow as
adopted by ordinance. After the city has received the request for a plat
approval, it shall inform the applicant within ten days whether the submittal
was complete. If deemed not complete, the applicant will be informed of needed
material or information to be made complete. If no notification of completion
is made by the city within  15  days, the request will be placed on a regular
Planning Commission agenda for consideration.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee and escrow as
provided for by City Council ordinance.
      (3)   The application shall also be accompanied by electronic and print
copies of a preliminary plat and supportive information in conformity with
requirements of this chapter and application checklists. The preliminary plat
shall be considered as being officially submitted only when all of the
information requirements of this chapter are complied with, the appropriate
fees paid, and escrows deposited.
      (4)   Where appropriate, the city staff will meet with the applicant to
discuss the request and related information. Upon receipt of all the required
information, the Zoning Administrator may forward the application and required
information to the appropriate city staff consultants and city commissions for
review and technical reports.
      (5)   The applicant shall supply proof of title in a form approved by the
City Attorney and the legal description of the property for which the
subdivision is requested and, as applicable, supply documented authorization
from the owner(s) of the property in question to proceed with the requested
subdivision.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   When an application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a public hearing for public review of the
preliminary plat. The hearing shall be held after adequate time has been
allowed for staff and advisory body review of the plat.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the hearing
shall consist of a legal property description and a description of the request
and shall be published in the official newspaper at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten days
prior to all owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in
question. Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings a set forth within this chapter, provided a
bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice requirements of this
chapter.
      (3)   Timeline for review of the preliminary plat shall be in accordance
with M.S. § 462.356, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Technical assistance reports. The Zoning Administrator shall instruct
the appropriate staff to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and
provide general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the
City Council.
   (D)   Review by other commissions or jurisdictions.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the preliminary plat
to the Parks and Recreation Commission and/or county, state, or other public
jurisdictions for its review and comments, where appropriate and when required
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In cases where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a county or
state highway, the subdivision shall be subject to county and/or state
approval.
   (E)   Planning Commission action. The applicant or a designated
representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission at the
public hearing in order to answer questions concerning the proposed request.
The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council
following the close of the public hearing. If the Planning Commission has not
acted upon the preliminary plat, and the statutory review period will expire
before the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting, the Council
may act on the preliminary plat without the Planning Commission’s
recommendation.
   (F)   City Council action.
      (1)   Upon completion of the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the City Council. The
report and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the Council meeting.
      (2)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set and
hold a public hearing if deemed necessary or take action based on Planning
Commission recommendation. The Council shall make recorded findings of fact and
may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare. The Council shall adopt a resolution approving or denying
the request.
      (3)   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat
within 120 days following delivery of an application completed in compliance
with this chapter, unless the time for Council decision has been extended
pursuant to a written agreement with the applicant.
      (4)   The City Council may deny or require modifications to a proposed
preliminary plat when said plat fails to comply with any of the requirements of
this chapter, or other applicable regulations, including the zoning ordinance.
In addition, the Council may deny or require modifications to a proposed
preliminary plat when the Council finds that despite technical compliance with
applicable ordinances, the plat design results in a likelihood of extraordinary
public costs for future maintenance or the potential for public safety hazards
that are not typical for subdivisions in the city.
      (5)   The City Council reserves the right to deny or require
modifications to a preliminary plat if due regard is not shown for the
preservation of all natural features, such as topography, trees, watercourses,
scenic points, prehistoric and historical spots, and similar community assets,
which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability to the proposed
development of the property.
      (6)   If the preliminary plat is denied by the City Council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council. If the
preliminary plat is approved, the approval shall not constitute final
acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will be required of the
engineering proposals and other features and requirements as specified by this
chapter to be indicated on the final plat. The Council may require such
revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems necessary for the
health, safety, general welfare, and convenience of the city.
      (7)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be null and void unless within
360 days after receiving the last required approval of the preliminary plat
there shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator a final plat or plats for
all or a portion of the approved preliminary plat in accordance with the
conditions upon which approval was granted by the City Council. An extension
from this requirement may be granted by the Council upon the reception of a
request for extension. An extension shall be requested in writing and filed
with the city at least 14 days before the voidance of the approved preliminary
plat. There shall be no charge for the filing of such request. The request for
extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt was made to meet the
final plat submission requirement. Such request shall be presented to the
Council for a decision.
      (8)   In the event of changes to city, county, state, and federal
development regulations, the city may require a preliminary plat to be amended
to incorporate applicable changes, except as may be prohibited by Minnesota
Statutes.
      (9)   Should the applicant desire to amend a preliminary plat as
approved, an amended preliminary plat may be submitted. The city may require
the applicant to follow the same procedure as a new preliminary plat. No public
hearing will be required for the amendment if the opinion of the city is that
the scope of the changes does not constitute a new preliminary plat. A filing
fee, as established by the city, shall be charged for amendment processing.
      (10)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not be considered binding
in regard to subsequent final plat contemplation.
§ 152.027 PROCEDURE FOR FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat shall
be submitted for review as set forth in the divisions which follow. The city
may agree to review the preliminary and final plat simultaneously. The final
plat shall incorporate all changes, modifications, and revisions required by
the city. Otherwise, it shall strictly conform to the approved preliminary
plat.
      (2)   The application for final plat shall be accompanied by electronic
and print copies of a preliminary plat and supportive information in conformity
with requirements of this chapter and application checklists.
   (B)   Approval of the City Council.
      (1)   The final plat shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for
distribution to the City Council and appropriate city staff. The city staff
shall examine the final plat and prepare a recommendation to the Council. The
Council shall certify final approval within 60 days if the applicant has
complied with all conditions and requirements of applicable regulations and
conditions and requirements of the preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   If approved, the final plat and development agreement shall be
approved by resolution, which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of
all agreements for basic improvements, public dedication, and other
requirements as indicated by the City Council. If disapproved, the grounds for
any refusal to approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the
Council and reported to the person or persons applying for such approval.
   (C)   Development agreement. Before a final plat is approved by the City
Council and prior to recording or registering a final plat, the owner or
subdivider of the land covered by the plat shall execute and submit to the
Council an agreement, which shall be binding on his, her, or their heirs,
personal representatives, and assigns, which embodies the terms and conditions
of the approval given by the Council, including, but not limited to,
requirements set forth in this chapter and which controls the installation of
all required improvements. The agreement will require all improvements in
compliance with approved engineering standards and applicable regulations. Said
development agreement shall provide for the supervision and inspection of the
construction by the City Engineer and shall provide for the fees and securities
in connection to the improvements.
   (D)   Existing special assessments. When any existing special assessments
which have been levied against the property described are to be divided and
allocated to the respective lots in the proposed plat, city staff shall:
      (1)   Estimate the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment role;
      (2)   File the same with the County Auditor; and
      (3)   Make such division and allocation.
   (E)   Recording final plat.
      (1)    If the final plat and development agreement are approved by the
City Council, the applicant shall record them with the County Recorder within
365 days after the approval or approval of the final plat shall be considered
void, unless a request for a time extension is submitted in writing and
approved by the Council. The applicant shall, immediately upon recording,
furnish the Zoning Administrator with a print and reproducible tracing of the
final plat showing evidence of the recording.
      (2)   A final plat will not be released by the city for recording
purposes until the applicant has satisfied applicable ministerial requirements
of this chapter, including payment of fees, execution of a developer’s
agreement, deposit of surety, letters of credit, Mylar copies of the final
plat, easement and deed documents, and all other requirements of approval by
resolution.
      (3)   No building permits shall be let for construction of any structure
on any lot in the plat until the construction plans have been approved by the
city, the city has received evidence of the plat and development agreement
being recorded by the county and the provisions of the subdivision’s
development agreement have been satisfactorily met.
   (F)   Recording of multiple-phased plats. If a preliminary plat is final
platted in stages, unless otherwise provided for in the development contract,
all stages must be final platted into lots and blocks (not outlots) within
three years after the preliminary plat has been approved by the City Council.
If the final plats are not approved and recorded in accordance with this time
frame, the preliminary plat approval shall be considered void, unless a request
for time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the Council prior to
the expiration of the three-year period.
   (G)   Extension. Within 30 days of the deadline of recording of the final
plat, the applicant may file with the Zoning Administrator a written request
that said deadline be extended six months beyond the date the extension is
granted. The Zoning Administrator shall place the request on the agenda of a
regularly scheduled City Council meeting to be held within 30 days of the
extension filing if in their opinion no change has occurred in any land use
restriction or the Comprehensive Plan, or any other official control affecting
the use, development density, lot size, lot layout, or dedication or platting
required or permitted by the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-14-2022)
DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS
§ 152.040 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The owner or subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat together
with any necessary supplementary information.
   (A)   Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions;
      (2)   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section, quarter
section, or quarter- quarter section lines comprising a legal description of
the property;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the record fee owner;
      (4)   Scale of plat not less than one inch to 100 feet;
      (5)   Date and north point;
      (6)   Project narrative; and
      (7)   Certificate of survey signed by a registered land surveyor and
current within six months of plat application to include legal description, all
public utilities including pipe size, material type, depths, location, and
detail of private utilities or easements, any other easements of record.
   (B)   Existing conditions plan.
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision clearly indicated and to a
close degree of accuracy;
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision;
      (3)   Location right-of -way width, and names of existing or planned
streets, or other public ways, parks, and other public lands, permanent
buildings and structures, easements, school districts, section and corporate
lines within the plan and to a distance 350 feet beyond shall also be
indicated;
      (4)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land, within
350 feet, identified by name and ownership, including all contiguous land owned
or controlled by subdivider;
      (5)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet and all surface features and structures. Watercourses,
marshes, rock outcrops, delineated wetlands, power transmission poles and
lines, size, location, and elevation of all appurtenances of existing public
utilities and all quasi-public utilities, including the name and operating
authority of each utility, and other significant features shall be shown.
U.S.G.S. data shall be used for all topographic mapping where feasible. (1929
sea level data shall be used for all topographic mapping.) The flood elevation
of all lakes, river, and wetlands shall also be shown;
      (6)   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision prepared by a qualified
person;
      (7)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, storm
sewer, or other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of
100 feet beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and locations
of catch basins, manholes, and hydrants shall be shown only on request;
      (8)   A survey prepared by a qualified person identifying tree coverage
in the proposed subdivision in terms of type, weakness, maturity, potential
hazard, infestation, vigor, density, and spacing. Deciduous trees that are less
than six inches in diameter at a point five feet above natural grade, or trees
that are diseased or invasive as defined by the Department of Natural Resources
may be exempted from this survey; and
      (9)   Wetland data report shall be required and must consist of a wetland
delineation report which identifies all wetlands, ponds, lakes, waterways,
floodplains, and shorelines, and a wetland functional assessment summary. The
wetland data report must be submitted with the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Proposed design features.
      (1)   A proposed grading plan showing the present and existing contours
at two-foot contour interval, together with off-site existing contours
depicting drainage patterns entering the proposed site, within 200 feet or more
of the proposed subdivision is required unless waived by the City Engineer. If
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer, one-foot contours may be
required for proposed grading plans in order to ensure property drainage. High
and low point elevations and emergency overflow elevations and routes shall be
provided. The proposed grading plan shall demonstrate a design for the
subdivision that respects the natural topography, and preserves existing trees,
wetlands, and other natural features;
      (2)   Layout of proposed streets showing the right-of-way widths,
centerline gradients, typical cross-sections, and proposed names of streets.
The name of any street heretofore used in the county or its environs shall not
be used unless the proposed street is a logical extension of an already named
street, in which event the same name shall be used. Street names conform to the
master street name and numbering system as adopted;
      (3)   Locations and widths of proposed streets and pathways;
      (4)   Layout, numbers, and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks and
dimensions of street frontage;
      (5)   Tabulation of the acreage of the full subdivision;
      (6)   Tabulation statement of the approximate square footage and
dimensions of the individual lots;
      (7)   Minimum front and side street building setback lines. When lots are
located on a curve, the width of the lot is measured at the building setback
line;
      (8)   For each lot, specify building type, finished floor elevations, and
lowest opening elevations.
      (9)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pathways, and utility easements
intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the size of the
area or areas in acres;
      (10)   Proposed location and routing of proposed sewer lines and
identification of gravity mains or forcemains;
      (11)   Proposed location and routing of proposed water mains;
      (12)   A vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of
trees, and other vegetation that are to be planted;
      (13)   A stormwater management plan and erosion and sediment control plan
in accordance with the requirements of the city’s Design Manual and per zoning
ordinance Chapter 4.10; and
      (14)   Open space and landscaping plan.
   (D)   Other information.
      (1)   The applicant shall supply proof of title in a form approved by the
City Attorney and the legal description of the property for which the
subdivision is requested and, as applicable, supply documented authorization
from the owner(s) of the property in question to proceed with the requested
subdivision;
      (2)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units and type of business or
industry, so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire
hazards, and congestion of population;
      (3)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas;
      (4)   (a)   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission shall require that
the subdivider submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision; and
         (b)   In any event, all subdivisions shall be shown to relate well
with existing or potential adjacent subdivision.
      (5)   Where structures are to be placed on large lots (over 30,000 square
feet), the preliminary plat shall indicate placement of structures so that lots
may be further subdivided;
      (6)   Where potential subdivision and use of excessively deep (over 300
feet) lots exist, the preliminary plat shall indicate placement of structures
so that lots may be further subdivided;
      (7)   A copy of all proposed private restrictions and covenants; and
      (8)   Other information as may be requested by the engineer, surveyor, or
Planning Commission.
§ 152.041 FINAL PLAT.
   The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together with any
necessary supplementary information.
   (A)   Contents. The final plat prepared for recording purposes shall be
prepared in accordance with provisions of state statutes and county
regulations, and the final plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Names of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, township, range, county, and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must be mathematically
close;
      (3)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of the monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles, and distances to the reference points or monuments. Permanent markers
shall be placed at each corner of every block or portion of a block, points of
curvature and points of tangency of street lines, and at each angle point on
the boundary of the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a
steel rod or pipe, one-half inch or larger in diameter extending at least two
feet below the finished grade due to the difficulty faced with frozen ground in
the winter. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in
the locations prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted. The exact
locations of all markers shall be shown on the final plat together with
accurate interior angles, bearings, and distances. Permanent monuments shall be
placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision or on its
perimeter;
      (4)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks, and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines;
      (5)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block;
      (6)   The exact locations, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated;
      (7)   Location and width and intended use of all easements to be
dedicated;
      (8)   Name of fee owner and surveyor preparing the plat;
      (9)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date, and north point;
      (10)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas,
utility and drainage easements not previously dedicated as follows: streets
alleys, and other public areas shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated
to public use are hereby so dedicated; and
      (11)   An accompanying letter from the County Surveyor’s office stating
that the plat or land survey has been examined and approved.
   (B)   Certifications required.
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner and by any mortgage bolder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (2)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct;
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full if requested by the City Council or County
Commissioners; and
      (4)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by
the signatures of the Chairperson of the City Planning Commission and the Mayor
and City Clerk.
         (a)   The form of certificate by the Planning Commission is as
follows:
 
Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the City of Monticello this ____ day of
______, 20___.
Signed: __________________________
      Chairperson
Attest: ___________________________
      Secretary
 
         (b)   The form of approval of the City Council is as follows:
 
Approved by the City of Monticello, Minnesota this ____ day of ______, 20___.
Signed: __________________________
      Mayor
Attest: ___________________________
      City Clerk
 
   (C)   Recording required. A letter from the County Recorder’s office stating
the final plat has been recorded as approved by the City Council shall be
received by the Building Official’s office before any building permits may be
issued.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.055 CONFORMITY WITH OTHER STANDARDS.
   A proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan, to related
policies adopted by the city, and to all other chapters of the official code
and zoning ordinance of the city. All subdivisions shall be designed to the
city’s current Design Manual and current city specifications.
§ 152.056 INTERPRETATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The design features set forth in this section are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
streets, and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property
being subdivided.
§ 152.057 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography, or adverse soil, rock formation,
or wetlands.
   (B)   Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property shall not be
subdivided until all such hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate
safeguards against such hazards are provided by the subdivision plan.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding
jurisdictions and/or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously.
§ 152.058 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets determining block
lengths shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,320 feet, nor be less
than 500 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this standard. In blocks longer than 800 feet, pathways and/or
easements through the block may be required near the center of the block.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
§ 152.059 LOTS.
   (A)   Area/width. The minimum lot area and width shall not be less than that
established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption of
the subdivision.
   (B)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as required in
the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (D)   Building sites. Unless approved by the City Engineer upon the basis of
plans submitted showing alternative acceptable surface drainage measures, each
lot shall provide an adequate building finished floor elevation at least 12
inches above the top of the adjacent curb.
   (E)   Frontage. Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city-approved
right-of-way other than an alley, as required in the city zoning ordinance.
   (F)   Access. Each individual lot shall directly access a public street.
   (G)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the city zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
   (H)   Watercourses. Watercourses shall be contained within abutting lots.
Watercourses shall be protected by easement to the anticipated high water level
(as determined by the city). Lots with easements protecting watercourses shall
have sufficient dimensions and area above the normal water mark.
   (I)   Drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage away from
building locations, subject to the approval of the City Engineer. A grading
plan shall be submitted showing all lot grading and drainage provisions.
   (J)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, topography,
historic spots, or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and stability to the proposed development.
   (K)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots or outlot, rather
than be allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (L)   Political boundaries. No subdivision shall extend over a political
boundary or school district line without document notification to affected
units of government.
   (M)   Frontage on two streets. Double frontage, or lots with frontage on two
parallel streets, shall not be permitted except where lots back on major
collector streets or county or state highways, or where topographic or other
conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double frontage lots
shall have an additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for
screen plantings and/or buffering along the back lot line. As part of the
subdivision review process, the submission of a buffering and screening plan
may be required.
   (N)   Access to major collector streets.
      (1)   In the case where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a major
collector street, said streets to be defined by the city’s Comprehensive Plan,
there shall be no direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets
and roads. In the subdividing of small tracts of land fronting on limited
access highways or major collector streets where there is no other alternative,
a temporary access may be granted, subject to terms and conditions defined by
the City Council and applicable county or state agencies.
      (2)   As neighboring land becomes subdivided and more preferable access
arrangements become possible, temporary access permits shall become void.
      (3)   In cases where direct lot access to collector or arterial streets
is allowed, special traffic safety measures including, but not limited to,
provisions for on-site vehicle turnaround shall be required.
      (4)   In cases where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a county or
state highway, the subdivision shall be subject to county and/or state
approval.
   (O)   Outlots. Lot remnants and future subdivision development phases shall
be platted as outlots. Typically, stormwater ponds shall be contained within
outlots. In cases where outlots are created or exist, their area shall not be
utilized in calculating minimums for buildable lot area requirements. Outlots
are also prohibited from qualifying for building permits.
§ 152.060 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   All streets shall be dedicated for public use except by approval through
planned unit development.
   (A)   Contiguous streets. Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect with
streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for
future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
arterials and collector streets shall be considered in their relation to the
reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of
stormwater, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the area to be served and in compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Local streets and dead-end streets. Local streets should be so planned
as to discourage their use by non-local traffic. Dead-end streets are
prohibited, but cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography or other
physical conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 600
feet, including a terminal turnaround which shall be provided at the closed
end, with a right-of-way radius of not less than 60 feet. A 45-foot street
surface radius will be required on all cul-de-sacs.
   (C)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the subdivision to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by
the applicant, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant. When
determined necessary by the city, the plan shall extend streets and utilities
to the property line of the adjacent tract and/or tracts.
   (D)   Temporary cul-de-sacs. In those instances where a street is terminated
pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a temporary
turnaround facility shall be provided at the closed end, in conformance with
cul-de-sac requirements.
   (E)   Subdivisions abutting major rights-of-way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a U.S. or state
highway or county thoroughfare, provision may be made for a marginal access
street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of the right-of-way;
provided, that due consideration is given to proper circulation design, or for
a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between the
street and right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for approach connections to
future grade separations, or for lot depths.
   (F)   Pathways.
      (1)   Pathways shall be established in accordance with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan for Parks, Pathways, and Open Space, the city’s Proposed
Pathway Connections Guide, and in other areas where trails will serve an
important transportation or recreational purpose as recommended and approved by
the City Council.
      (2)   Trail corridors shall meet the following minimum requirements
unless otherwise permitted by the City Council:
         (a)   Dedicated to the city as an easement for public trail purposes;
         (b)   Minimum 30-foot wide corridor;
         (c)   Minimum ten-foot wide surface;
         (d)   Compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA);
         (e)   No above-ground utilities (i.e., lift stations, utility boxes)
may be within the trail corridor;
         (f)   A landscape plan, including shrubs and trees, shall be required
on trail corridors located in the side yard of residential lots. These
landscape plantings shall be in addition to those required by other sections of
this code;
         (g)   Due regard shall be shown for trees, wetlands, and other
environmental features when locating and constructing trails; and
         (h)   Compliance with city, county, and state transportation plans.
   (G)   Compliance with city, county, and state transportation plans.
      (1)   All subdivisions adjacent to or incorporating planned streets which
are identified in the city, county, and state transportation plans, as amended,
or existing streets shall comply with the minimum right-of-way, surfaced width
and design standards as outlined in the plans or as recommended by the City
Engineer.
      (2)   Infrastructure planning for safe routes to school shall be
incorporated into subdivision and pathway design in accordance with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan for Parks, Pathways, and Open Space, and the city’s Proposed
Pathway Connections Guide.
   (H)   Street design.
      (1)   The classification of street and determined right-of-way width
shall be determined by the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Minimum right-of-way widths, paving widths, angles of intersection,
curb radii, distances along sides of sight triangles, horizontal alignments,
vertical alignments, as well as maximum grades shall be in accordance with the
following table:
Street Design
Design  Minor    Major     Minor     Local                        Private
Element Arterial Collector Collector Streets Cul-de- Sacs Pathway Common
                                                                  Access**
Street Design
Design       Minor    Major     Minor     Local    Cul-de-             Private
Element      Arterial Collector Collector Streets  Sacs      Pathway   Common
                                                                       Access**
Right-of-way 150 ft.  130 ft.   80 - 100  60 ft.   60 ft.    30 ft.    30 ft.
width*                          ft.
Paving       52 ft.   52 ft.    44 ft.    32 ft.   32 ft./45 10 ft.    20 ft.
width**                                            ft. R
Maximum      7.5%     7.5%      7.5%      8%       8%        8%        8%
grade
Minimum      0.50%    0.5%      0.5%      0.5%     0.5%      0.5%      0.5%
grade
Cross grade  2 - 3% crown                                    2% max    2 - 3%
                                                                       crown
Design       10 ton   9 ton     9 ton     9 ton    9 ton     N/A       9 ton
section
Minimum
angle        90       90        80        70       70        N/A       70
intersection
Minimum curb 65 ft.   50 ft.    35 ft.    20 ft.   15 ft.    -         20 ft.
radius
Grades for
25 feet      2.00%    2.00%     2.00%     2.00%    2.00%     2.00%     2.00%
before
intersection
Site
triangles
(distance    690/30   490/30    490/30    250/30   250/30              250/30
along sides  ft.      ft.       ft.       ft.      ft.       N/A       ft.
of) through
street/stop
street
Horizontal
align (min.  700 ft.  500 ft.   300 ft.   200 ft.  75 ft.    N/A       100 ft.
radius of
centerline)
Vertical
curves (min. 650 ft.  475 ft.   325 ft.   250 ft.  100 ft.   N/A       300 ft.
sight
distance)
                                          Sidewalk
             Required Required  Required  required           See above
Pathway      on both  on both   on both   on                 design
             sides    sides     sides     single             notations
                                          side
NOTE: Alternate right-of-way width requirements may be allowed for specific
thoroughfares based on anticipated traffic volume, planned function of street,
jurisdiction of street, topography, and character of abutting land use.
Increased width will be set by the City Council upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission and City Engineer.
Street design requirements may be altered based on existing topographic
conditions as approved by the City Council upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission and City Engineer.
Based on future roadway functional classification
*As measured from face of curb to face of curb.
**The City Council may choose to approve private common access for PUD,
townhouse development, and the like, where appropriate. Standards for said
access, however, shall comply with minimums as outlined for minor streets
(except ROW) and all other provisions as required by the Council.
 
   (I)   Streets in flood hazard area. No street shall be approved if its final
surface is at a lower elevation than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The City Council may require profiles and elevations of
finished streets for areas subject to flooding. Fill may be used for streets,
provided such fill does not unduly increase flood heights and provided any such
fill would not result in a stage increase violating the requirements of
applicable Minnesota Statutes, and any applicable requirements imposed by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to its rules and regulations.
Drainage openings shall not restrict the flow of water so as to unduly increase
flood heights, and provided any such drainage opening would not violate the
requirements of applicable Minnesota Statutes, as such chapters may be amended,
supplemented, or replaced from time to time, and any applicable requirements
imposed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency pursuant to its rules and
regulations.
   (J)   Reverse curves. Minimum design standards for minor arterial and major
collector streets shall comply with Minnesota Department of Transportation
State Aid Standards.
   (K)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions accepted by the City Council.
   (L)   Private streets. Private streets and reserve strips, except in the
case of planned unit developments, shall be prohibited and no public
improvements shall be approved for any private street. If any person applies to
subdivide or replat any land or parcels adjoining an existing private street,
they shall be required to dedicate the private street for public use and
schedule for improvement to public street standards at the time of final plat.
   (M)   Street intersections. Intersections having more than four corners
shall be prohibited. Adequate land for future intersections and interchange
construction needs shall be dedicated. Angles formed by the intersection of two
streets shall comply with the provisions of division (H) above.
   (N)   Street intersection offsets. Street jogs in local streets shall have a
centerline offset of not less than 150 feet. Street jogs in arterial and
collector streets shall have a centerline offset of not less than 300 feet.
   (O)   Centerline curvature. The minimum horizontal curvature of streets
shall be in accordance with the MNDOT Highway Design Manual for the type of
street and design speed.
   (P)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided, in which case the dedication of a half street may be
permitted. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication of the
remainder shall be considered in this decision. No permanent street improvement
shall be permitted within a half street right-of-way. All lots having frontage
or access solely from a half street are prohibited from being eligible for
building permits.
   (Q)   Dedication. All proposed streets shown on the subdivision shall be in
conformity to city, county, and state plans and standards and be offered for
dedication as public streets unless otherwise determined by the City Council.
   (R)   Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required on all
streets, unless otherwise directed by the City Council at the time the
subdivision is approved.
   (S)   Pavement. Pavement shall be installed in accordance with the City
Design Manual.
   (T)   Sidewalk. Sidewalks shall be provided on one side of all roadways and
shall be installed in accordance with standards and specifications approved by
the City Council.
   (U)   Private utilities. In all subdivisions, all telephone, electric, and
gas lines shall be placed underground within dedicated public ways or recorded
easements in such a manner as to not conflict with other underground services.
All underground installation of service lines within street rights-of-way shall
be completed in a manner that will not disturb street surfacing.
§ 152.061 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Municipal utility improvements lying within public easements.
Municipal utility improvements lying within public easements shall become city
property without further notice or action, with exception of approved private
streets and private storm sewer systems.
   (B)   Disturbance of surface of easement area. If the surface of the
easement area of any portion thereof shall be disturbed by the operation,
maintenance, replacement, or removal activities in connection with the use of
the easement, said surface and improvements shall be promptly restored by the
fee owner of the easement area to their condition prior to the disturbance.
   (C)   Width and location. An easement for drainage and utilities at least
six feet wide shall be provided along each side line of each lot and an
easement of 12 feet wide shall be provided along the front, side and rear line
of each lot line located along the perimeter of the plat.
   (D)   Continuous utility easement locations. Drainage and utility easements
shall connect with easements established in adjoining properties. These
easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval
of the City Council after a public hearing.
   (E)   Guy wires. Additional easements for pole guys should be provided,
where appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys fall alongside lot
lines.
   (F)   Stormwater management ponds. New stormwater management ponds that are
constructed as part of subdivisions shall be covered by drainage and utility
easements or outlots that are dedicated to the city. At least one side of a
pond should be located adjacent to public right-of-way or an approved
maintenance access route and adequate easement dedicated to provide access for
future maintenance.
(Ord. 772, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.062 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control standards shall comply with the city’s
engineering design guidelines (“Design Manual”) as well as Chapter 4 of the
city’s zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   (C)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
   (D)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
   (E)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible
period of time.
   (F)   In the event that permanent stabilization cannot be feasibly obtained
within 14 days after construction activity in that portion of the site has
temporarily or permanently ceased, and seven days if discharge points are
located within one mile of an impaired or special water body, temporary soil
stabilization BMPs must be implemented within the time frame.
   (G)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for respreading over the developed area. The soil shall be restored to a
depth of four inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to the soil
quality prior to development.
§ 152.063 DRAINAGE.
   Drainage facilities shall be in accordance with the City Design Manual and
approved by the City Engineer.
§ 152.064 STEEP SLOPES.
   Subdivision design shall be consistent with limitations presented by steep
slopes. Subdivisions shall be designed so that no construction or grading will
be conducted on slopes steeper than 3:1 in grade, unless otherwise approved by
the City Engineer based on exiting topographic conditions.
§ 152.065 WETLAND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where the subdivision of a lot or tract of land contains drainageways,
watercourses floodable areas, or wetlands, and thus may be unsuitable for
development, the areas shall be handled as follows.
      (1)   If the land is designated in whole or in part for public use on an
adopted plan of the city, the developer shall dedicate the land to the city in
accordance with §
152.080 through
152.085.
      (2)   If the land is not designated for public use on an official plan,
then the developer shall cause the land to be carried in a private easement in
the individual deeds affected thereby, and no permit shall be issued for a
building permit.
   (B)   The developer may submit a proposal for development indicating how,
through site and engineering design, the intent of this chapter will not be
violated if approved. In addition, the developer shall provide a surety bond to
the approving city to ensure that such will be done at a specific time if
approved.
   (C)   Any development or platting shall comply with the city’s zoning
ordinance and/or county shoreland regulations.
§ 152.066 OPEN SPACE AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   (1)   Every subdivision shall include a landscape plan that identifies
areas of public value, including significant views, natural vegetation, or
watercourses, even where the features may be located upon private lots.
      (2)   The landscape plan shall provide for the addition of trees, shrubs,
and ground covers or grasses that achieve the following objectives:
         (a)   Establish naturalized woodland areas in large spaces;
         (b)   Establish naturalized areas around stormwater ponds; and/or
         (c)   Establish naturalized woodland areas at the edges of
subdivisions, particularly in areas of land use changes or where the
subdivision abuts a major roadway, utility line, or railroad.
   (B)   The landscaping plan shall be accompanied by a reliable estimate of
installation costs. The subdivider shall provide a financial security that
guarantees live growth of the plant materials for one complete year or two
growing seasons from the date of installation. In the event the plant materials
under this plan must be replaced due to death, disease, or other reason, the
financial security shall be extended to cover an additional two years from the
date of replacement.
§ 152.067 PROTECTED AREAS.
   (A)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways,
watercourses, floodable areas, or steep slopes, the design of the subdivision
shall clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to ensure against
adverse environmental impact.
   (B)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city shall determine whether protection will be accomplished through
lot enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in the form
of easements or outlots.
   (C)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the applicant shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18%, or result in
significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that adverse impacts
cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
§ 152.068 MAIL AND PAPER BOX LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOXES. All mail boxes, paper boxes, and advertising boxes, wherein either
mail is distributed, newspapers and magazines are distributed or advertising
placed for the use of residents of the city.
   (B)   Requirements; location of boxes on city streets. The placement of all
boxes shall comply with the following specifications.
      (1)   No boxes shall be placed within ten feet of any stone sewer inlet
or any fire hydrant.
      (2)   Where there is more than one house on a city block, boxes shall be
located in a cluster. Paper boxes and advertising boxes must be located in the
same cluster as the mail boxes. The clusters shall be centrally located in the
middle of the homes to be served.
      (3)   For cul-de-sacs, the cluster shall be placed a minimum of ten feet
from the beginning of the radius of the cul-de-sac.
PARKS, OPEN SPACE, AND PUBLIC USE
§ 152.080 DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council recognizes that the preservation of land for park,
open space, and public use is essential to the health, safety, and welfare of
residents of the city. Therefore, pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, subd. 2b, as it
may be amended from time to time, the Council shall require all developers
requesting platting or replatting of land to be used for residential purposes
in the city to contribute an amount of land for public park and pathway
purposes. The location of the land shall be at the discretion of the Council.
   (B)   The amount of the land shall be reasonably commensurate with demand
that the platting or replatting places on the city park system, as described in
the Comprehensive Plan. For purposes of this section, an amount of land equal
to 11% of the total gross land area of the plat shall be presumptively defined
as REASONABLY COMMENSURATE.
   (C)   In the event that the subdivider objects to the 11% standard, the city
shall, at the developer’s request and expense, conduct a specific dedication
study of the park system and the demand placed on the system by the proposed
plat. Prior to conducting the study, the city shall obtain a waiver of
statutory time lines for plat approval during the conduct of the study. No
approval of final plats, nor construction of any improvements, shall occur
until the park dedication study is completed. In lieu of land dedication, the
City Council may require a cash contribution in accordance with state statutes
or a combination of both. The Council’s decision on land and/or cash shall be
made following recommendations from the city’s Park and Recreation Commission
and staff, in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (D)   In accordance with state statutes, where the City Council determines
that the park dedication requirements shall be paid in a cash contribution, the
amount of the contribution shall be based on the market value of the raw land
not later than at the time of final plat.
   (E)   The city may require that the subdivider provide an appraisal or other
comparable documentation to determine the market value. In the alternative the
city may, by ordinance, establish a fee per residential unit that will meet the
cash dedication requirement. The determination of the appropriate fee
calculation shall be made by the City Council.
   (F)   (1)   To be eligible for park dedication credit, the land to be
dedicated as a requirement of this section shall be useable, developable land.
      (2)   The City Council shall not accept for credit against a subdivider’s
park dedication requirement any of the following:
         (a)   Delineated wetlands;
         (b)   Land within a designated floodplain;
         (c)   Land encumbered by a utility easement such as a petroleum or
electric power transmission line (except where such easement is a standard
platting requirement of the city pursuant to §
152.061, and where the city determines that the land within the easement will
be usable for park, trail,
or open space purposes); or
         (d)   Land within a drainage easement or other land required for
stormwater treatment.
   (G)   The city may, at its discretion, accept lands in the above categories
for park dedication purposes if it deems the dedication to be of public
benefit. No credit shall be given against the subdivider’s park dedication
requirement, however, unless the city determines that the land will be used for
a specific public park, pathway, or open space purpose.
   (H)   Land dedicated for park purposes shall be transferred to the city by
warranty deed. The transfer of the land shall occur at the time of recording of
the final plat. For multiple-phased developments, all of the park dedication
land shown on the approved preliminary plat shall be transferred to the city
upon recording of the first final plat, in the form of outlot(s) at the
discretion of the city, and shall not be shown as “park” on the plat. The
development agreement may permit the phasing of the land transfer.
   (I)   In addition, the development agreement shall grant the subdivider a
license to enter the park dedication land for the purposes of required grading,
seeding, or other work approved by the City Council.
   (J)    Parkland dedication requirements for residential planned unit
developments (PUDs) shall provide the minimum of 11% for park, open space, or
public use or cash in lieu of land per this chapter.
   (K)   The removal of trees, topsoil, storage of construction equipment,
burying of debris, or stockpiling of surplus soils is strictly prohibited on
land to be dedicated per this section.
   (L)   The subdivider shall provide the city with a certificate of survey
that shows all features of the land to be dedicated.
   (M)   Agreements in this section shall be made as part of the development
agreement presented for approval with the final plat. Failure of the City
Council and subdivider to reach agreement regarding he matters in this section
shall constitute the basis for consideration to deny the plat.
§ 152.081 CASH CONTRIBUTION.
   All monies collected from cash contributions shall be placed in a special
fund from which only those public uses as listed in above may be constructed or
improved or land for those same uses may be acquired.
§ 152.082 COMBINATION OF LAND DEDICATION AND CASH CONTRIBUTION.
   A combination of land and cash may be required and approved by the City
Council in satisfaction of the requirements of this chapter. In the event a
combination of land and cash is required, the amount of land to be dedicated
shall be credited against the total park dedication requirements and the
remaining cash contribution shall be based on the percent of the remaining
unfulfilled park dedication obligation.
§ 152.083 DELAYED DEDICATION PAYMENT.
   (A)   Upon petition by the developer, the City Council may approve a delay
in the actual dedication of the cash required in lieu of land until such time
as development occurs on the property being platted, provided that a proper
legal agreement is executed guaranteeing such dedication.
   (B)   Delayed dedication payment may be subject to interest payment per year
as set by the Council.
§ 152.084 PURCHASE OR CONDEMNATION OF LANDS.
   (A)   Where a proposed park, playground, or other recreational area,
proposed school site, or other public ground that has been indicated in the
official map and/or master plan is located in whole or in part within a
proposed subdivision, the proposed public site shall be designated as such and
should be dedicated to the city, school district, or other proper governmental
unit.
   (B)   If the subdivider chooses not to dedicate an area in excess of the
land required hereunder for such proposed public site, the City Council may
consider acquiring the site through purchase or condemnation.
§ 152.085 LOCATION AND CONFIGURATION OF DEDICATION.
   In such cases where the developer is required to dedicate land area, the
City Council shall have the right to determine the geographic location and
configuration of the dedication.
BASIC REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.100 GENERAL.
   (A)   Development agreement.
      (1)   Before a final plat is approved by the City Council and prior to
recording or registering a final plat, the owner or subdivider of the land
covered by the plat shall execute and submit to the Council an agreement, which
shall be binding on his, her, or their heirs, personal representatives, and
assigns, which embodies the terms and conditions of the approval given by the
Council, including, but not limited to, requirements set forth in this chapter
and which controls the installation of all required improvements. The agreement
will require all improvements in compliance with approved engineering standards
and applicable regulations. Said development agreement shall provide for the
supervision and inspection of the construction by the City Engineer and shall
provide for the fees and securities in connection to the improvements.
      (2)   The owner or subdivider shall cause no private construction to be
made on the plat or file or cause to be filed any application for building
permits for the construction until all improvements required under this chapter
have been made or arranged for in the following manner, as respects the streets
to which the lots sought to be constructed have access.
   (B)   Trunk utility area fees. As a condition to subdivision plat approval,
subdivider shall pay both a trunk storm sewer, trunk sanitary sewer fee, and a
trunk water main fee to the city to fund the trunk storm sewer, trunk sanitary
sewer, and trunk water main improvements required by the proposed development.
The city shall establish the trunk fees by ordinance. The city shall
incorporate these trunk fees into the development agreement with the
subdivider, which shall be collected with any new subdivisions in accordance
with the public improvement financing policy of the city, as may be amended,
and which may be assessed.
   (C)   Securities. In order to cover the legal, engineering, and
administrative costs and expenses incurred by the city in connection with the
review and approval of the subdivision and the inspection of the actual
installation and construction of the improvements, the owner or subdivider,
shall, before recording the final plat, deposit with the city an escrow amount,
which shall be based on a percentage of the engineer’s estimate of the cost of
the construction of the improvements. The percentages shall be set in the city
fee schedule.
   (D)   Construction plans. Construction plans and specification for the
required improvements conforming in all respects with all ordinances of the
city shall be prepared at the expense of the owner or subdivider by a
professional engineer registered by the state. Such plans and specifications
shall be approved by the City Engineer and shall become a part of the
development agreements. Prints of said plans shall be filed with the city, as
required by the City Engineer.
§ 152.101 CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council without
first receiving a report from the City Engineer certifying that the
improvements described herein, together with the agreements and documents
required herein, meet the minimum requirements of all applicable ordinances.
      (2)   Drawings showing all improvements as built shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (B)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council on land subject to
flooding or containing poor drainage facilities and on land which would make
adequate drainage of the streets and lots impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City
Engineer, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate street and lot drainage and conform to applicable regulations of other
agencies such as the U.S. Corps of Engineers or the Department of Natural
Resources, the final plat of the subdivision may be approved.
   (C)   In addition, the plats may not be approved if the cost of providing
municipal services to protect the floodplain area would impose an unreasonable
economic burden upon the city.
   (D)   As a condition of final plat approval, the development agreement shall
make provision in the manner hereinafter set forth for the installation, at the
sole expense of the subdivider, of such improvements as shall be required by
the city, which improvements may include, but are not limited to items included
in division (G) below. The installation of said improvements shall be in
conformity with city approved construction plans and specifications and all
applicable city standards and sections of this code. The subdivider shall not
commence with construction of improvements until financial assurances are
provided as contained in the development agreement.
   (E)   Developer installed improvements.
      (1)   No owner or subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any
improvements without providing the city a financial security, in a form
acceptable to the city and consistent with city ordinance or policy as adopted
by the City Council, guaranteeing the improvement will be installed in
accordance with all laws, rules, regulations, and policies as approved by the
city. The amount of the financial security shall be 125% of the engineer’s
estimate of the total cost of the improvements to be installed, as verified by
the City Engineer and set forth in the development agreement. In the event the
required improvements are not completed within the specified timeline, all
amounts held in the development agreement as security may be drawn upon by the
city and applied by the city to the cost of completing the required
improvements. If the available securities are not sufficient to complete the
required improvements, the necessary additional cost to the city shall be
assessed against the subdivision.
      (2)   Securities may be reduced from time to time prior to improvement
acceptance upon submission of formal request by the owner or subdivider. No
reduction of security shall be authorized unless the improvements associated
with the reduction request have been inspected by the city and found to be in
compliance with this chapter and satisfactory evidence of contractor payment
has been provided.
      (3)   Prior to any public improvement being accepted by the city, the
owner or subdivider shall post a maintenance bond or other security in a form
acceptable to the city naming the city as obligee in an amount deemed
appropriate by the City Council to insure the maintenance of the improvements
for a period of 24 months from the date of acceptance or approval by the city.
      (4)   The owner or sudivider shall continue to be responsible for
defects, deficiencies, and damage to improvements during development of the
subdivision. No inspection approval of release or reduction of funds from the
security as to any component or category shall be deemed to be city final
approval of the improvements or otherwise release the owner or subdivider of
its obligation relating to the completion of the improvement within the final
subdivision until a release on all improvements and maintenance is issued by
the City Council declaring that all improvements have in fact been constructed
as required.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide to the city grading and utility as-
built drawings of all improvements.
      (6)   The owner or subdivider engaged in the development of lands and
properties may request city participation in the payment of the costs of
certain improvements. City participation shall be negotiated with the
subdivider and established by the City Council pursuant to entering into a
development agreement. The Council shall on a case-by-case basis determine
infrastructure impact on areas outside the subdivision. City required
oversizing of infrastructure beyond the appropriate standard residential or
commercial equivalent shall be eligible for funding by the city. Source of city
funding shall not be a determinate of financial participation.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or prevent the city from
establishing a fee, charge, or assessment against the subsequent subdivider/
developers which benefit from the prior improvements for the purpose of
maintaining or upgrading the public improvements.
      (8)   All of the required improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be inspected during the course of their
construction by the City Engineer. All of the inspection costs pursuant thereto
shall be paid by the owner or subdivider in the manner prescribed in §
152.100(C).
      (9)   The city shall have the right to install any or all of the required
improvements as it may elect and upon such terms and conditions as it may deem
appropriate under the circumstances.
   (F)   City installed improvements.
      (1)   Any person desiring to have improvements installed may request the
city to install the improvements, if the request is accompanied by a written
petition signed by 100% of the landowners pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as it may
be amended from time to time, and a waiver of assessment appeal. Acceptance of
the request shall be discretionary on the part of the City Council, based on
the benefit to the property owners, and subject to the following conditions and
as authorized by state law.
      (2)   (a)   Prior to the making of such required improvements, the City
Council shall require the owner or subdivider to pay to the city an amount
equal to a minimum of 25% and up to 100% of the estimated total cost of the
improvements, including not only construction but all indirect costs.
         (b)   The actual percentage to be determined by the city in each case
based on its review of the following:
            1.   The financial background of the developer;
            2.   The normalcy of the unit charge for putting in the
improvement;
            3.   An evaluation of the cost recovery potential through the sale
of the land;
            4.   The likelihood of success of the development; and
            5.   Developer default on any outstanding assessment payment in the
past 12 months.
      (3)   This payment must be made to the city prior to the City Council
adopting the resolution ordering the project.
      (4)   If approved by the City Council, the city may cause the
improvements to be made and special assessments for all costs of the
improvements to be levied on the benefitted land, except any land which is or
shall be dedicated to the public. The total project cost, less the deposit,
will be assessed 100% against the benefitted property payable in not more than
ten annual installments with interest at a rate of at least 1.5% (rounded up to
the nearest 0.25%) over the rate paid on bonds issued to finance the
improvements or, if financed internally, over the then equivalent rate the city
determined it would have to pay on bonds issued at that time; provided,
however, at the entire assessment balance outstanding against a given parcel is
to be paid in full prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy permit
for principal use of new construction on that parcel or within 180 days after a
building permit for new construction is issued, whichever comes first.
      (5)   Water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer lateral lines shall be
assessed 100% against the benefitted property within the proposed subdivision.
These assessments shall be made on a residential housing unit basis.
      (6)   Water, sanitary, and storm sewer trunk fees will be due at the time
of platting or in cases where properties have already been platted, applicable
trunk fees will be collected at such time a new building permit is issued.
      (7)   (a)   The cost of constructing permanent streets, including curb
and gutter, will be 100% assessed against benefitted property based on front
footage. Corner lots shall be assessed for frontage only with no charge made
for the long side lot footage. Costs resulting from intersections and side lot
footage shall be included in the total amount to be assessed and apportioned
over the net assessable footage.
         (b)   In the case of odd-shaped lots, the footage shall be measured at
the building setback line; however, in no event shall the assessable footage be
less than the minimum lot width as required by the city.
      (8)   In the event a building permit is applied for prior to completion
of installation of the improvements, an escrow payment to the city shall be
deposited in an amount equal to 125% of the estimated total assessment.
      (9)   Upon completion of the project and determination of the actual cost
to be assessed, any overcharge will be refunded and any additional cost will be
due the city within 30 days of notification of the additional cost. If, for any
reason, subsequent to having made the advance payment to the city the developer
should withdraw from the project, the city is entitled to retain an amount
equal to the city’s cost related to the project to that time, and the balance
shall be refunded to the developer.
      (10)   At the request of the owner or subdivider, the city may agree to
spread all of the assessments against the subdivision on a per lot or
residential housing unit basis rather than on the various methods set forth in
divisions (F)(5), (F)(6), or (F)(7) above.
      (11)   In all cases, the procedure for local improvements prescribed in
M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be followed.
      (12)   The requirements of this subchapter are intended to be compatible
with the assessment policy in this division (F).
   (G)   Minimum improvements.
      (1)   It is hereby the policy of the city to, as soon as practicable
after the approval of the proposed plat, require the installation of all of the
following improvements within the subdivision.
      (2)   In addition to those below, additional improvements may be required
by development agreement:
         (a)   Trunk and lateral sanitary sewer;
         (b)   Trunk and lateral water main;
         (c)   Storm drainage facilities;
         (d)   Stormwater maintenance;
         (e)   Streets;
         (f)   Concrete curb and gutter;
         (g)   Street traffic control devices;
         (h)   Lot grading;
         (i)   Trail development;
         (j)   Sidewalk development;
         (k)   Electricity (within one-fourth mile);
         (l)   Natural gas (within one-fourth mile);
         (m)   Communications (within one-fourth mile);
         (n)   Water shut-off boxes;
         (o)   Street striping and signing;
         (p)   Streetlights;
         (q)   Landscaping;
         (r)   Monuments;
         (s)   As-built plans; and
         (t)   Easement and deeds
§ 152.102 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved, in accordance with standards and
specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   All streets to be paved shall be of an overall width in accordance
with the standards and specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Curb and gutter will be constructed as required by the standards and
specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   If deemed necessary by the City Engineer and City Council, the owner
or subdivider shall install street traffic control signals. The signalization
shall be constructed in conjunction with the street unless the Council grants a
waiver to delay signalization. In the event such waiver is granted, the owner
or subdivider shall deposit with the city a sum of money equivalent to the
engineer’s estimated cost of the signalization.
   (E)   Street trees and boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance
with the standards and specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (F)   Street signs shall be installed in conformance with the standards and
specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Street lights shall be installed in conformance with the standards and
specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
   (H)   Mailbox clusters shall in installed in conformance with the standards
and specifications as approved by the City Engineer.
§ 152.103 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed as may be required by standards and
specifications approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer mains and service connections stubbed in to the
property line shall be installed to serve all lots in the subdivision and other
such properties served by the subdivision sewer main, when the location of such
plat is within an area of the city which is either being assessed for sanitary
sewer service or for which such service has been authorized by the City
Council.
   (C)   Water mains and service connections stubbed in to the property line
shall be installed to serve all lots in the subdivision and other such
properties served by the subdivision water main when the location of such plat
is within an area of the city which is either being assessed for water service
or for which such service has been authorized by the City Council.
   (D)   City water facilities, including pipe fittings, hydrants, and the
like, shall be installed as may be required by standards and specifications
approved by the City Council. Where city water facilities are not available for
extension into the proposed subdivision, the Council may by ordinance grant
approval for such water facilities to serve all properties within a subdivision
where a complete and adequate neighborhood water distribution system is
designed in conjunction with the subdivision and complete plans for the system
are submitted for approval of the Council.
   (E)   Where city sewer and water facilities are not available for extension
into proposed subdivision, the City Council may permit the use of individual
water and sewer systems in accordance with appropriate state regulations.
§ 152.104 GRADING, DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   A system of drainage shall be provided that will conform and
implement the city’s comprehensive stormwater plan.
      (2)   Storm sewers, culverts, stormwater inlets, and other drainage
facilities will be required where they are necessary to ensure adequate
stormwater drainage for the subdivision. Where required, the drainage
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications as adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Stormwater maintenance. Upon successful establishment of permanent
erosion control facilities the subdivider shall safeguard the storm sewer
system from excess siltation caused by construction until full buildout within
a subdivision, including the sodding. The subdivider shall clean all storm
sewers and shall also remove silt from all ponding areas which received runoff
from the development as well as all temporary erosion control devices (i.e.,
silt fence).
   (C)   Lot grading. All lots shall be graded in accordance with the final
grading plan. In addition, erosion control measures shall be followed to
eliminate erosion. Upon completion of the grading, at least four inches of
topsoil shall be applied to all exposed ground areas. And said areas shall be
landscaped in accordance with the final landscape plan.
§ 152.105 UTILITIES.
   All necessary utility easements must be recorded prior to utility
installation.
   (A)   Electricity. The subdivider shall be responsible for providing
electric service to the plat. Whenever possible, a joint trench shall be
utilized for small utilities (cable, fiber, gas, electric, telephone).
   (B)   Communications. The subdivider shall be responsible for providing
phone service to the plat. Whenever possible, a joint trench shall be utilized
for small utilities (cable, fiber, gas, electric, telephone).
   (C)   Natural gas. The subdivider shall be responsible for providing natural
gas service to the plat. Whenever possible, a joint trench shall be utilized
for small utilities (cable, fiber, gas, electric, telephone).
§ 152.106 MONUMENT AND SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the County Surveyor’s
office and approved by the County District Court for use as judicial monuments,
shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside boundary of the final plat
or in accordance with a plan as approved by the City Engineer. The boundary
line of the property to be included with the plat to be fully dimensioned; all
angles of the boundary excepting the closing angle to be indicated; all
monuments and surveyor’s irons to be indicated, each angle of the point of the
boundary perimeter to be so monumented.
   (B)   Proper survey monumentation shall be placed at each lot corner and
points of curvature and tangency along street rights-of-way. All Unites States,
state, county, or other official bench marks, monuments, or triangular stations
in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position and shall
be recorded on the plat. All lot and block dimensions shall be shown on the
plat and all necessary angles pertaining to the lots and block, as an aid to
future surveys, shall be shown on the plat.
   (C)   To ensure that all irons and monuments are correctly in place
following the final grading of a plat, a security shall be required until a
certificate from the surveyor has been provided to the city verifying the
placement of all monuments in accordance with this section.
§ 152.107 PATHWAYS.
   (A)   Trail development.
      (1)   Trail improvements shall be installed as shown on the final plat
and/or master trail plan.
      (2)   All accessible bikeway/walkway trailways shall be constructed per
the standard detail plats approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Grades and specifications shall be as approved by the City Engineer
and shall meet all city, state, and federal requirements.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   All single-family subdivisions shall have not less than a six-foot-
wide concrete sidewalk on at least one side of each through street or
anticipated through street to provide for safe pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   All multi-family subdivisions shall have concrete sidewalks not
less than six feet wide on both sides of the main public street spine, unless
otherwise approved by City Council. Sidewalks may be required on culs-de-sac.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be located within the road right-of-way.
Wherever possible, placement of the sidewalk within the right-of-way should
allow for a minimum of a one-foot separation between the edge of the sidewalk
and the residential property line.
      (4)   Cost of sidewalk construction within the subdivision shall be borne
by the subdivider and not eligible for credit against park and trail dedication
fees.
      (5)   The design must meet current standards of the city, comply with the
Americans for Disabilities Act (ADA), and be shown on the preliminary plat for
approval. All sidewalks required by the city shall be constructed as shown on
the cities standard detail plates.
§ 152.108 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water shutoff boxes. The water shut-off boxes shall be adjusted at the
time the final boulevard grade is established. Water shut-off boxes shall
remain visible after the boulevard sod is installed.
   (B)   Easement acquisition and deed. Prior to the time of construction, the
owner or subdivider shall obtain and supply all easements and deeds required
for the project. At the time the project is complete and turned over to the
city, all easements not dedicated on the final plat shall be deeded to the city
in a separate recordable document.
   (C)   As-built plans. Upon completion of installation of all required
improvements, the subdivider shall file with the city copies of plans and
specifications showing all improvements as finally constructed and installed in
both digital and paper form as required by the City Engineer. Such as-built
drawings shall be certified to be true and accurate by the registered engineer
responsible for the installation of the improvements.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS
§ 152.120 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS.
   It is the intention of this subchapter that all registered land surveys in
the city should be presented to the Planning Commission in the form of a
preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter for
preliminary plats and that the Planning Commission shall first approve the
arrangement, sizes, and relationship of proposed tracts in such registered land
surveys and that tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so
dedicated. Unless a recommendation and approval have been obtained from the
Planning Commission and City Council respectively in accordance with the
standards set forth in this chapter, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys,
and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair, or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
§ 152.121 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   No conveyance in which the land conveyed is described by metes and
bounds shall be made or recorded if the parcels described in the conveyance are
five acres or less in area and 300 feet or less in width unless the parcel was
a separate parcel of record at the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Building permits will be withheld for buildings or tracts which have
been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and the city may refuse to take
over tracts as streets or roads or to improve repair, or maintain any such
tracts.
FEES
§ 152.135 BASE FEE PER APPLICATION.
   To defray administrative costs for processing of subdivision applications,
variances, or appeals, a base fee as adopted by resolution shall be paid by all
applicants.
§ 152.136 STAFF AND CONSULTANT FEE.
   (A)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing the applications,
all applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request plus all
material cost for the request.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MATERIALS. Includes, but not be limited to, maps, graphs, charts,
drawings, and the like, and all printing or reproduction of same.
      STAFF AND/OR CONSULTING TIME. Includes any time spent in either
researching for or actual production of materials.
   (C)   The hourly rate for staff and/or consulting time shall be established
and made available to the applicant by the City Clerk prior to production of
any materials, and the applicant shall be given a reasonable estimate of
projected time and/or material costs.
§ 152.137 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Fees for application shall be payable at the time applications are
filed with the City Clerk and are not refundable unless application is
withdrawn prior to start of review for referral to the Planning Commission. A
deposit to cover staff or consulting time and materials will be established as
adopted by resolution and required by the City Clerk at the time the base fee
is paid. Any portion of the deposit not spent to defray the above-mentioned
costs will be refunded to the applicant within 90 days after the application
process is completed.
   (B)   Fees as established by the development agreement are payable per the
terms and conditions as assigned by the development agreement.
VIOLATIONS
§ 152.150 SALE OF LOTS FROM UNRECORDED PLATS.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, trade, or otherwise convey or offer to sell,
trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with, any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat , or replat shall
have first been recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.151 RECEIVING OR RECORDING UNAPPROVED PLATS.
   It shall be unlawful to receive or record in any public office any plans,
plats, or replats of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys, or
other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use or
for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto and
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.152 MISREPRESENTATION AS TO CONSTRUCTION, SUPERVISION, OR INSPECTION OF
IMPROVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning an addition
or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any improvement upon
any of the streets, alleys, or avenues of the addition or subdivision or any
sewer in the addition or subdivision has been constructed according to the
plans and specifications approved by the City Council or has been supervised or
inspected by the city when the improvements have not been so constructed,
supervised, or inspected.
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law. Each month during which
compliance is delayed shall constitute a separate offense.
 
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Editor's note:
   The Zoning Ordinance set out in this Chapter 153 was originally adopted by
reference in a prior version of this code. Said Zoning Ordinance was codified
in full for the first time in November, 2022. Subsequent amendments to the
ordinance, after it was set out in full, will be indicated by legislation
histories placed at the end of the affected sections.
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Authority
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Effective date
   
153.005   Applicability
   
153.006   Relation to the Comprehensive Plan
   
153.007   Relationship to other laws and agreements
   
153.008   Transitional regulations
   
153.009   General rules for interpretation
   
153.010   Rules of measurement
   
153.011   Abbreviations
   
153.012   Definitions
Application Reviews and Procedures
   
153.025   Purpose
   
153.026   Summary of decision-making and review bodies
   
153.027   Common review procedures and requirements
   
153.028   Specific review procedures and requirements
Zoning Districts
   
153.040   General provisions
   
153.041   Districts established
   
153.042   Common district requirements
   
153.043   Residential base zoning districts
   
153.044   Business base zoning districts
   
153.045   Industrial base zoning districts
   
153.046   Overlay zoning districts
   
153.047   Planned unit development districts
   
153.048   Pointes at Cedar District
Finishing Standards
   
153.060   Landscaping and screening
   
153.061   Tree protection
   
153.062   Fences and walls
   
153.063   Exterior lighting
   
153.064   Signs
   
153.065   Underground utilities
   
153.066   Transitional features
   
153.067   Off-street parking
   
153.068   Off-street loading spaces
   
153.069   Grading, drainage, stormwater management and erosion control
   
153.070   Building materials
   
153.071   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
153.072   Telecommunication towers and antennas
Use Standards
   
153.090   Use table
   
153.091   Use-specific standards
   
153.092   Accessory use standards
   
153.093   Temporary uses
Nonconformities
   
153.105   Purpose
   
153.106   Authority to continue
   
153.107   Discontinuance
   
153.108   Change in use
   
153.109   Building permits and ordinance amendments
   
153.110   Existing nonconforming lots
Enforcement
   
153.120   Purpose
   
153.121   Compliance required
   
153.122   Violations
   
153.123   Responsible persons
   
153.124   Enforcement generally
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as "Monticello Zoning Ordinance" except as
referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this chapter."
§ 153.002 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Municipal
Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.363, as they may be amended from time to
time.
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To implement the policies of the City's Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   To protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community and its people through the establishment of regulations governing
development and use;
      (3)   To promote orderly development and redevelopment;
      (4)   To protect the established use areas;
      (5)   To provide adequate light, air, and convenience of access to
property;
      (6)   To prevent congestion in the public right-of-way;
      (7)   To prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating land, buildings, yards, and allowed residential
densities;
      (8)   To provide for compatibility of different land uses;
      (9)   To provide for administration and enforcement of this chapter;
      (10)   To provide for amendments;
      (11)   To prescribe penalties for violation of such regulations; and
      (12)   To define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals, the Planning Commission, and the City Council in
relation to the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held as the minimum requirements for the promotion of public
health, safety, and welfare.
§ 153.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on and after January 27, 2011. The adoption
of this chapter shall not be construed to confer any protected legal status on
uses in existence prior to the effective date that did not conform to previous
ordinance provisions. Uses that were illegal under previous ordinance
provisions shall not be converted to a legal nonconforming use by reason of
adoption of this chapter.
§ 153.005 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is applicable to all land located within the city both now and
as may be incorporated in the future. The use of land and buildings or
structures, and the construction, reconstruction, alteration, expansion, or
relocation of buildings or structures shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
§ 153.006 RELATION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   It is the policy of the City of Monticello that the Comprehensive Plan is
the city's guiding document for the regulation of land use and development. The
enforcement, amendment, and administration of this chapter is to be
accomplished with due consideration of the recommendations contained in the
Comprehensive Municipal Plan as developed and amended from time to time by the
Planning Commission and City Council of the city.
§ 153.007 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Conflict with other public laws, chapters, regulations, or permits.
      (1)   This chapter is intended to complement other municipal, state, and
federal regulations that affect land use. This chapter is not intended to
revoke or repeal any other public law, ordinance, regulation, or permit.
      (2)   Where the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions
than those of any statute, other chapter or regulation; the provisions of this
chapter shall apply.
      (3)   Where the provisions of any statute, other chapter or regulation
impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of that statute,
other chapter or regulation shall apply.
   (B)   Conflict with private agreements.
      (1)   The existence of any easement, covenant, or other private agreement
with respect to property affected by this chapter shall not affect the duty of
any interested person to comply with this chapter.
      (2)   The city shall have no obligation to waive or modify the
requirements of this chapter to conform to private agreements, nor shall it be
obligated to enforce such agreements.
   (C)   Conflict between standards in this chapter.
      (1)   Controlling standards.
         (a)   In the event of conflict between one or more of the standards in
this chapter, priority shall be established based on the following descending
hierarchy:
            1.   Overlay zoning district requirements (§
153.046);
            2.   Base zoning district requirements (§
153.043);
            3.   Rules of measurement (§
153.010); and
            4.   Finishing standards (§§
153.060 through
153.072).
         (b)   Example: if an overlay district standard conflicts with a base
district standard, the overlay district standard shall control and take
precedence.
      (2)   Conflicts between other standards. In cases where two or more
standards conflict within the same hierarchy category identified in division
(C)(1) above, the more restrictive standard shall not necessarily control (for
example, if two overlay zoning district requirements conflict, this division
shall apply). The determination as to which control applies shall be made by
the Community Development Department. The following standards shall govern the
Community Development Department and the Board of Adjustment and Appeals in
issuing use interpretations:
         (a)   Greater consistency with the goals and objectives contained
within the adopted Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   More supportive of the purposes of this chapter as described in
§
153.003, Purpose;
         (c)   Increased compatibility with adjacent development and
surrounding community character;
         (d)   Enhanced environmental quality and natural resource protection;
         (e)   Greater protection and preservation of historic and cultural
resources; and
         (f)   A superior level of building form, design, or architecture.
§ 153.008 TRANSITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of transitional regulations is to resolve the
status of properties with pending applications or recent approvals, and
properties with outstanding violations, at the time of the adoption of this
chapter.
   (B)   Violations continue. Any violation of previous versions of this
chapter shall continue to be a violation under this chapter and shall be
subject to the penalties and enforcement set forth in §§
153.120 through
153.124, Enforcement; unless the use, development, construction, or other
activity complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Uses, structures, and lots rendered nonconforming. Where any use,
building, structure, or lot that legally existed on the effective date of this
chapter does not meet all standards set forth in this chapter, such building,
structure, lot or parcel shall be subject to the requirements of §§
153.105 through
153.110, Nonconformities.
   (D)   Existing legal nonconformities. Legal nonconforming lots of record and
uses that existed on the effective date of this chapter shall be controlled by
§§
153.105 through
153.110, Nonconformities.
   (E)   Processing of applications commenced or approved under previous
ordinances.
      (1)   Pending application.
         (a)   Any complete application that has been submitted or accepted for
review, but upon which no final action has been taken by the appropriate
decision-making body prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be
reviewed in accordance with the provisions of ordinances in effect on the date
the application was deemed complete by the city.
         (b)   An applicant with a pending application may waive the review
available under the prior ordinance through a written letter to the Community
Development Department, and instead request review under the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Approved projects.
         (a)   Approved land use and other related actions by the City of
Monticello authorized under the prior ordinance, including building permits
that are valid on the effective date of this chapter, shall remain valid until
their expiration date, where applicable.
         (b)   Projects with valid approvals or permits shall comply with the
requirements of this chapter where the standards will not materially affect the
project. Where use of these standards would materially affect the project, the
project shall be completed pursuant to the development standards in effect at
the time of approval, provided that the permit or approval is valid and has not
lapsed.
         (c)   Any building or development for which a building permit was
granted prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to
proceed as permitted or approved, even if such building or development does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter, as long as the building permit
remains valid.
         (d)   Building permits authorized in accordance with the ordinance
existing prior to the effective date of this chapter shall still be valid, but
shall not be renewed if the permit expires. All future permits shall only be
issued if in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
§ 153.009 GENERAL RULES FOR INTERPRETATION.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   (A)   Meanings and intent. All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions
contained in this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the general
purposes set forth in §
153.003, Purpose, and the specific purpose statements set forth throughout this
chapter. When a specific section of these regulations gives a different meaning
than the general definition provided in this article, the specific section's
meaning and application of the term shall control.
   (B)   Headings, illustrations, and text. In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the text of this chapter and any heading, caption,
figure, illustration, table, or map, the text shall control. Graphics and other
illustrations are provided for informational purposes only and should not be
relied upon as a complete and accurate description of all applicable
regulations or requirements.
   (C)   Lists and examples. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "for example," "including," and "such
as," or similar language are intended to provide examples and are not
exhaustive lists of all possibilities.
   (D)   Computation of time. The time in which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If a deadline
or required date of action falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by
the city, the deadline or required date of action shall be the next day that is
not a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the city. References to days are
calendar days unless otherwise stated.
   (E)   References to other regulations/publications. Whenever reference is
made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, it shall be
construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such regulation,
resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document, unless otherwise
specifically stated.
   (F)   Delegation of authority. Any act authorized by this chapter to be
carried out by a specific official or department of the city may be carried out
by a professional-level designee of such official or department.
   (G)   Technical and non-technical terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   (H)   Public officials and agencies. All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of the City of Monticello,
unless otherwise indicated.
   (I)   Mandatory and discretionary terms. The words "shall," "must," and
"will" are mandatory in nature, establishing an obligation or duty to comply
with the particular provision. The words "may" and "should" are permissive in
nature.
   (J)   Conjunctions. Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply; and
      (2)   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events apply.
   (K)   Tenses, plurals, and gender.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural number and the
plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise.
      (3)   Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender, and
vice versa.
   (L)   Terms not defined. If a term used in this chapter is not defined in §
153.012, the Community Development Department shall have the authority to
provide a definition based upon the definitions used in accepted sources
including but not limited to: A Planners Dictionary; A Glossary of Zoning,
Development, and Planning Terms; A Survey of Zoning Definitions; or any
standard dictionary.
§ 153.010 RULES OF MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Measurements, generally.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to clarify the rules of
measurement and exemptions that apply to all principal and accessory uses
allowed in this chapter. These standards may be modified by other applicable
sections of this chapter.
      (2)   Distance measurements, generally. Unless otherwise expressly
stated, distances specified in this chapter are to be measured as the length of
an imaginary straight line joining those points.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   Definitions/measurement.
         (a)   Average lot size (see Figure 8-1). The mean lot size for all
lots being platted.
         (b)   Average lot width (see Figure 8-1). The mean lot width for all
lots being platted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1960.png]
 
         (c)   Lot area (see Figure 8-6). The amount of land area, measured
horizontally, included within the lines of a lot. Lands located within any
private easements shall be included within the lot area. Public rights-of-way
and areas below the ordinary high-water (OHW) mark for water features are not
to be included in calculating lot area, except where specifically allowed by
this chapter. The terms “lot size” and “lot area” shall be interchangeable.
         (d)   Lot coverage (see Figure 8-6). Lot coverage shall be calculated
as the total horizontal surface area of impervious surface on a given lot.
          (e)     Lot depth. Lot depth shall be determined by a straight line
connecti ng the midpoint of the front lot line to the midpoint of the rear lot
line, or to the rear most point of the lot when there is no rear lot line (see
Figure 8-2 for examples).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1962.png]
 
         (f)   Lot or street frontage. In the case of a building lot abutting
upon only one street, the frontage line is the line parallel to and common with
the right-of-way. In the case of a corner lot, that part of the building lot
having the narrowest frontage on any street shall be considered the frontage
line. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner lots and
double frontage lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as required in this chapter.
         (g)   Lot line (see Figure 8-3).
            1.   Corner side lot line. The corner side lot line is a side lot
line that abuts a street or other right-of-way.
            2.   Front lot line. The front lot line is the line connecting the
two side lot lines along the street right-of-way having the least width.
            3.   Rear lot line. The rear lot line is the line connecting the
two side lot lines along the edge of the lot opposite from the front line.
            4.   Side lot line. The side lot line is the lot line connecting
the front and rear lot lines regardless of whether it abuts a right-of-way or
another lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1964.png]
 
         (h)   Lot types (see Figure 8-4).
            1.    Base lot. A contiguous parcel of land in identical ownership
throughout, bounded by other lots or streets, and used or set aside and
available for use as the site of one or more buildings or other definite
purpose. References to “lot” within this chapter are synonymous with “base
lot.”
            2.   Corner lot. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets (other than alleys), regardless of whether or not such streets
intersect at right angles.
            3.   Cul-de-sac lot. A lot located on the head or turn around of a
cul-de-sac with side lot lines on a tangent to the arc of the right-of-way.
            4.   Double frontage lot. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street other than an alley.
            5.   Flag lot. A lot that does not abut or front a street where
access is obtained by a narrow private right-of-way.
            6.   Interior lot. A lot other than a corner lot with only one
frontage on a street other than an alley.
            7.   Unit lot. A specialized lot created within a base lot simply
for the purpose of defining ownership for certain multi-family dwelling types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1966.png]
 
         (i)     Lot width (see figure 8-5).
             1.   Lot width shall be determined by a straight line connecting
the endpoints determined by the intersection of the side lot lines and the
required front yard setback.
            2.   The width of a corner lot shall be calculated from the side
with the least frontage on a right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1968.png]
 
      (2)     General lot requirements.
         (a)    Erection of more than one principal structure on a platted lot.
Whenever any land is subdivided, a building permit for the construction of a
building or other principal structure (excluding buildings under common
ownership or unified control) shall not be issued unless the land is subdivided
in accordance with the procedures and standards of this chapter.
         (b)   Lots divided by zoning district lines. Whenever a single lot is
located within two or more different zoning districts, each portion of that lot
shall be subject to all the regulations applicable to the district in which it
is located.
      (3)   Required yards.
         (a)   Definitions/measurement.
            1.   Accessory structure yard. The minimum yard requirement between
a lot line and an allowable accessory structure. Detached accessory structures
may not be placed within front yards or corner side yards.
            2.   Building line (see Figure 8-3). A line formed by the face of a
building which is used to establish the yards around a building or structure.
            3.   Build-to line. A line with which the majority of an exterior
wall of a building is required to coincide.
            4.   Right-of-way (ROW). Land dedicated, deeded, used, or to be
used for a street, road, alley, pedestrian way, crosswalk, bikeway, drainage
facility, or other public uses, wherein the owner gives up rights to the land
so long as it is being or will be used for the dedicated purpose.
            5.   Setback line. A line located at the inside edge of a required
front, side, or rear yard. Exterior building walls may not encroach into the
required yard beyond the building setback line. Portions of a building, (e.g.,
an overhang, eave, entry stairs, bay windows, foundation planters, etc.) may
encroach into a required yard as allowed in §
153.042(D)(2), Allowable Yard Encroachments.
            6.   Yard. A required open area unoccupied and unobstructed by any
building or by any structure or portion of a structure except as allowed by
this chapter. Fences, walls, and incidental structures (e.g., flagpoles,
birdhouses or feeders, clothesline posts, etc.) may be permitted within a yard
provided the structures do not interfere with corner visibility.
            7.   Yard types (see Figure 8-3).
               a.   Corner side yard. A side yard extending between the front
and rear lot lines parallel to an abutting street or right-of-way.
               b.   Front yard. A yard extending between side lot lines across
the front of a lot between the front lot line and the front building line.
               c.   Rear yard. A yard extending across the rear of the lot
between the rear lot line and the rear building line. In the case of double
frontage lots, there is no rear yard, and the requirements for the front yard
shall apply to the front and rear.
               d.   Side yard. A yard extending from the front building line to
rear building line. In the case of double frontage lots, the side yard extends
from the front building line to the opposing building line associated with the
other yard.
               e.   Zero side lot line. A condition where no side yard is
provided between two or more distinct dwelling units sharing a party wall
(e.g., townhouse, duplex, attached residential, etc.).
      (4)   Bulk.
         (a)   Definitions/measurement.
            1.   Building coverage. Building coverage is a measure of intensity
of a use of land that represents the portion of a site that is covered by
building footprint, as well as attached porches, decks, and balconies. Building
coverage does not include driveways, streets, sidewalks, and any other areas
covered by an impervious surface material, including areas of outdoor storage
(see Figure 8-6).
            2.   Building size. Building size is the total floor area located
inside exterior walls and covered by a roof.
            3.   District size. The minimum size, in acres, of a base or
overlay zoning district, including streets, rights-of-way, and open space
areas, but excluding unbuildable lands.
            4.   Floor area. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
floors of a building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the centerline of walls separating two buildings, and excluding the
following:
               a.   Attic areas with a headroom of less than seven feet;
               b.   Unenclosed stairs or fire escapes;
               c.   Elevator structures;
               d.   Cooling towers;
               e.   Areas devoted to machinery and equipment for air
conditioning, ventilation, heating, and other similar building service needs;
               f.   Structured parking; and
               g.   Basement space not used for retailing activities, the
production or processing of goods, or for business or professional offices.
            5.   Floor area ratio. The total floor area of all buildings or
structures on a lot divided by the lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1970.png]
      (5)   Height.
         (a)    Definitions/measurement.
            1.    Building height. A distance to be measured from the mean
ground level to the top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest
gable on a pitched or hip roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the
uppermost point on all other roof types.
            2.   Building story.
               a.   The space between the surface of any floor and the surface
of the next floor above it; or if there is no floor above it, the space between
the floor surface and the top of the ceiling joists or roof rafters above it.
Typically, story height in a residential structure is nine feet per story, and
story height in a non-residential structure is twelve feet per story.
               b.   If the finished floor level directly above a basement or
cellar or unused under-floor space is more than six feet above the grade as
defined herein for more than 50% of the total perimeter or is more than 12 feet
above grade as defined herein at any point, such basement, cellar, or unused
under-floor space shall be considered as a story.
            3.   Fence and wall height. Fence and wall heights are to be
measured from the adjoining average grade. In the case of grade separation such
as the division of properties by a retaining wall, the height shall be
determined on the basis of measurement from the average point between the
highest and lowest grade.
            4.   Fence and wall height in residential side and rear yards.
Where a fence is constructed of posts and panels down a slope in a side or rear
yard of residential property, and the top rail of said fence or wall maintains
a horizontal alignment, the height of said fence shall be measured as follows:
The maximum fence height identified in the ordinance applicable to said fence
shall be measured from existing grade to the top of the fence panel nearest to
the uphill post. The height of the top edge of the fence panel may exceed the
maximum required height by up to two feet when measured at the downhill post.
Any fencing used to enclose the gap below the fence panel shall match the panel
in material, color, and style, or may be retaining wall constructed of stone,
brick or concrete masonry units designed and sold explicitly for such purpose.
            5.   Grade. Grade means the level of the finished ground surface
immediately adjacent to the exterior walls of a building.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.011 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following is a glossary of acronyms or abbreviations used within this
chapter.
ACI  Aggregate Caliper Inch(es)
ADA  Americans with Disabilities Act
APA  American Planning Association
ATM  Automated Teller Machine
CBD  Central Business District
CDBG Community Dev. Block Grants
COW  Cellular On Wheels
CR   County Road
CUP  Conditional Use Permit
DA   Development Agreement
DNR  Department of Natural Resources
DOT  Department of Transportation
DU   Dwelling Unit
DU/A Dwelling Units/Acre
EA   Environmental Assessment
EIS  Environmental Impact Statement
EPA  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency
GIS  Geographic Information System
GVW  Gross Vehicle Weight
HWY   Highway
K     1 Thousand, 1,000, kilo, kilometer
LB    Pound(s), 16 ounces
LOS   Level of Service (Highways & Streets)
MI    Mile, 5,280 Feet
MnDOT MN Department of Transportation
OHW   Ordinary High Water Mark
OZ    Ounce(s)
PCA   Pollution Control Agency
PUD   Planned Unit Development
ROW   Right-of-Way
SF    Square Foot (feet)
SM    Square Mile, 640 Acres
SQ    Square
Ton   2,000 Pounds
TWP   Township, 36 square miles (statutory)
UBC   Uniform Building Code
V/CR  Volume to Capacity Ratio
WECS  Wind Energy Conversion System
ZO    Zoning Ordinance
 
§ 153.012 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. A use, activity, structure, or part of a structure that is
subordinate and incidental to the main activity or structure on the site.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING - MAJOR. A building which is accessory to a principal
structure and is required to be constructed with a building permit per Minn.
Rule 1300.0120.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING - MINOR. A building which is accessory to a principal
structure and exempt from a building permit per Minn. Rule 1300.0120.
   ADULT USES. Adult uses include adult bookstores, adult motion picture
theatres, adult mini-motion picture theatres, adult massage parlors, adult
steamroom/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult
rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult
novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult
hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, and other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all members of the
public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction, or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" which are capable of being seen by members of the public.
Activities classified as obscene as defined by Minnesota Statutes, are not
included.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty.
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence.
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation.
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast.
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes; and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such persons.
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being.
         (g)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation.
   ADULT USE/ACCESSORY. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties,
and the like.
   ADULT USE/PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or
establishment and include, but are not limited to, the following:
      ADULT USE BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture film if such building
or portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age, or if a
substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by
reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE HOTEL/MOTEL. Adult hotel/motel means a hotel or motel from
which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT USE MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the intent of
providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who
engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical areas"
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
      ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE THEATRE. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if such
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has, as a principal
activity, the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation, or reducing; utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
      ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing; utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if such building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure on agricultural zoned land designed,
constructed, and used to house farm implements or agricultural produce or
products used by the owner, lessee, or sub-lessee or their immediate families,
their employees, and persons engaged in the pick up or delivery of agricultural
produce or products grown or raised on the premises. The term "agricultural
building" shall not include dwellings.
   AGRICULTURAL SALES. The retail sale of fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers,
herbs, trees, or other agricultural, floricultural, or horticultural products.
The operation may be indoors or outdoors, include pick-your-own or cut-your-own
opportunities, and may involve the ancillary sale of items considered accessory
to the agricultural products being sold or accessory sales of unprocessed
foodstuffs; home processed food products such as jams, jellies, pickles,
sauces; or baked goods and home-made handicrafts. The floor area devoted to the
sale of accessory items shall not exceed 25% of the total floor area. No
commercially packaged handicrafts or commercially processed or packaged
foodstuffs shall be sold as accessory items. No activities other than the sale
of goods as outlined above shall be allowed as part of the agricultural sales
business.
   AGRICULTURE. Those commonly associated with the growing of produce on farms.
These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay; fruit growing; tree, plant,
shrub, or flower nursery without building; truck gardening and livestock
raising and feeding, but not including fur farms, commercial animal feed lots,
and kennels.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which affords
secondary access to abutting property.
   ANIMAL KENNEL/BOARDING (COMMERCIAL). A facility or service where dogs, cats
and/or other small household pets as permitted by city code are kept or
maintained (day or overnight), for the care, training, exercising and/or
socializing by a person other than the owner of the animals for a fee. Animal
boarding may include incidental grooming, dog walkers or training services.
Animal boarding does not include facilities that provide breeding of animals,
selling of animals, or facilities whose primary source of revenue is licensed
veterinarian services.
   ANTENNA, COMMERCIAL TRANSMISSION AND RECEPTION. Shall mean commercial and
industrial communications equipment accessory to business operations of one
meter in width or greater, but not personal wireless telecommunications service
equipment.
   ANTENNA, PRIVATE AMATEUR RADIO. Shall mean equipment, including antennae,
antennae support structures, and other related material, necessary to conduct
Ham and Short Wave Radio reception and transmissions, only for use by those
persons properly licensed by the Federal Communications Commission for such
reception and transmissions, and who are in full compliance with all licensing
requirements.
   ANTENNA, PRIVATE RECEIVING. Television and other electronic reception
antennae for private use.
   ANTENNA, TELECOMMUNICATION. A device used for the transmission and/or
reception of wireless communications, usually arranged on an antenna support
structure or building, and consisting of a wire, a set of wires, or
electromagnetically reflective or conductive rods, elements, arrays, or
surfaces, inclusive of the following: private amateur radio antenna(s), private
receiving antenna(s), commercial transmission and reception antenna(s), and
wireless telecommunications service antenna(s).
   ANTENNA, WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Shall mean any equipment
necessary to provide or support all types of wireless electronic
communications, including, but not necessarily limited to, wireless "cellular"
telephone, radio, and internet transmission and reception communications
between mobile communications providers and users, including public safety
communications.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod, or
other structure which supports an antenna. Such structure may be freestanding
or attached to a building or other device that conforms to this chapter.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for, or
occupied as a residence by a single-family or an individual and is equipped
with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and efficiency unit. An
apartment is offered only as a rented or leased residence, as distinguished
from condominiums and townhouses, which allow for separate ownership.
   APPURTENANCES. The visible, functional, or ornamental objects accessory to,
and part of a building, such as chimneys, fire escapes, open decks, stoops,
steps, bay windows, roof overhangs, awnings, solar energy systems and similar
features.
   ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION. Means any obstruction which is not a natural
obstruction (see Obstruction).
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Record drawings of as-constructed improvements.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A multiple-family structure that includes a
special combination of housing, supportive services, personalized assistance,
and health care designed to respond to the individual needs of people who need
help with activities of daily living, but where the emphasis of the facility
remains residential. Residents of assisted living facilities do not require
hospitalization or skilled or intermediate nursing care associated with nursing
home facilities, but do, because of their advanced age, require assistance or
supervision in matters such as dressing, bathing, diet, financial management,
evacuation of a residence in the event of an emergency, or medication
prescribed for self-administration.
   ATTENTION GETTING DEVICE. Any device whose primary purpose is to attract
public attention to a use of land (but which is not a building or the use of
land itself), whether two or three dimensional, and whether through graphics,
light, movement, shapes or other method. Such device may be either permanent or
temporary, and would be regulated as a sign under the appropriate sections of
this chapter.
   AUCTION HOUSE. A building, area, or areas within a building used for the
public sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or equipment to the highest bidder.
   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM). A facility to provide banking and other
electronic services that is operated by the customer.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning. This business performs structural and cosmetic repairs to autos,
light trucks, and equipment of 9,000 pounds GVW and less. Allowed: Body repair
and painting, frame and/or unibody straightening and repair, glass replacement,
sandblasting and/or steam cleaning, undercoating or rust proofing, upholstery
work, washing, cleaning, and polishing.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR. A business that performs mechanical and
electrical repairs to autos, light trucks, and equipment 9,000 pounds GVW and
less. Allowed activities include minor repairs, incidental body and fender
work, minor painting and upholstering, tune ups and adjustments, replacement of
parts (excluding body and frame), rebuilding of parts or components when
installation is available, wheel alignment and balancing, tire repair, radiator
repair, washing, cleaning, and polishing, but specifically excluding any
operation specified or implied under the definition of "Automobile Repair -
Major."
   AUTOMOTIVE WASH FACILITY. An area or structure equipped with automatic or
self-service facilities for primarily washing automobiles.
   BANNERS AND PENNANTS. Attention-getting devices which resemble flags and are
of a paper, cloth, or plastic-like consistency.
   BASEMENT. Means any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A private residence, generally a single-family residence,
engaged in renting one or more dwelling rooms on a daily basis to tourists,
vacationers, and business people, where provision of meals is limited to
breakfast for guests only.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site, screen
undesirable views, reduce noise, or fulfill other such purposes.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing, and minimizing degradation of surface water,
including, but not limited to, avoidance of impacts, construction-phasing,
minimizing the length of time soil areas are exposed, or prohibitions or other
management practices published by state or designated areawide planning
agencies.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18% over
a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the bluff):
      (1)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
      (2)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
      (3)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
      (4)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BOARDER. A person who regularly receives lodging with or without meals at
another's home for pay or services.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
   BODY ART. Establishments that engage in providing "body art" or "body art
procedures" including physical body adornment using, but not limited to,
tattooing and body piercing. Body art does not include practices and procedures
that are performed by a licensed medical or dental professional if the
procedure is within the professional's scope of practice.
   BREW PUB. A restaurant-brewery that sells 85% or more of its beer on-site.
The beer is brewed primarily for sale in the restaurant and bar, and may be
dispensed directly from the brewery's storage tanks. Brewpubs may also sell
beer for off-sale consumption in growler containers.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. A structure with a roof, intended for shelter, housing, business,
or enclosure.
   BUILDING, FRONT FACADE. A building elevation which fronts on a public
street, public parking lot, private parking lot available to the general
public, or pedestrian walk where customer access to a structure is available.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See §
153.010(B)(5).
   BUILDING LINE. See §
153.010(B)(3).
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot.
   BULK FUEL SALES AND STORAGE. The commercial storage of gasses and fuels in
above ground containers.
   BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day on which City Hall is open.
   BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES. Establishments that engage primarily in rendering
services to businesses including but not limited to copy shops, printing
services, package and postal services, photo processing, janitorial services,
and similar operations.
   CALIPER. A horticultural method of measuring the diameter of a tree trunk
for the purpose of determining size. The caliper inches of a tree shall be
determined by measuring the tree's diameter four feet, six inches from the
ground.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed by the state to grow
cannabis plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant
to mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, or perform other actions approved by the office, for either
adult use or medical use.
   CANNABIS INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS. A business enterprise that is licensed by OCM
for one of the following cannabis-related uses:
      (1)   Cultivator;
      (2)   Manufacturer;
      (3)   Wholesaler;
      (4)   Transporter;
      (5)   Testing facility;
      (6)   Delivery service;
      (7)   Mezzobusiness;
      (8)   Microbusiness;
      (9)   Any such business that conducts these activities for lower-potency
hemp enterprises;
      (10)   Any such business that conducts these activities for medical
cannabis enterprises; or
      (11)   Any other cannabis-related business enterprise that is not
expressly and solely a retail business.
   CANNABIS-RELATED BUSINESSES. Unless otherwise noted in this section, words
and phrases contained in M.S. § 342.01, as amended from time to time, and the
rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings
in this chapter.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A business enterprise that is licensed by OCM
for one of the following cannabis-related uses: a cannabis retailer, or the
location(s) of a mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, or the
retail locations of a microbusiness with a retail operations endorsement,
medical cannabis retailer, or a medical combination businesses operating a
retail dispensary location, (and excluding) lower-potency hemp edible
retailers.
   CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a doorway.
   CANOPY TREE. A tree that has an expected height at maturity of 30 feet or
more.
   CELLAR. See BASEMENT.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for burying the remains of human
dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including mausoleums and mortuaries
when operated in conjunction with and within the boundaries of the cemetery.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
   CHARITABLE, FRATERNAL, OR SOCIAL CLUB/LODGE. See PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   CHURCH. See PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   CITY ENGINEER. A person who has received training and is given authority by
the City of Monticello to design, review, authorize, approve, inspect, and
maintain erosion and sediment control plans and practices. The City Engineer is
part of the Community Development Department.
   CIVIC INTEREST GROUP. A civic interest group is a non-governmental
organization which has a public or quasi-public service purpose as its central
function, but may include additional uses and activities related to its public
function or provided to its membership. A civic interest group may or may not
have a specific site location or building which it occupies whether owned or
leased. Examples of such groups may include religious institutions, local or
national service clubs and organizations, private museums, historical
facilities or similar entities.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CLEAR-CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of trees.
   CLINIC/MEDICAL SERVICES. A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations and service available to the public. This service is
provided without overnight care available.
   COCKTAIL ROOM. A room that is ancillary to the production of liquor at a
production distillery where the public can purchase and/or consume only the
liquor produced on site.
   COMBINATION USE. The combination of two principal uses.
   COMMERCIAL LODGING. A building or group of buildings in which sleeping
accommodations are offered to the public and intended primarily for rental for
temporary occupation by persons on an overnight basis, not including bed and
breakfast establishments or a rooming house. Such uses may include microwaves
and refrigerators for each guest unit.
   COMMERCIAL OFFICES. A commercial use involving predominantly administrative,
clerical, or professional operations. Commercial offices may include
professional and administrative training, but shall not include direct retail
commercial transaction activities. Professional training may include classes
and training offered by professional or administrative entities to consumers of
professional services.
   COMMERCIAL SELF-STORAGE. A land use characterized by a variety of sized
spaces available to the general public for rent on short-term periods, and for
which size of individual spaces are less than 1,000 square feet in area.
Commercial self-storage facilities are limited to storage use only, with no
separate business activities permitted as part of the use.
   COMMUNICATION ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURES. See ANTENNA,
TELECOMMUNICATION.
   COMMUNICATIONS/BROADCASTING. Establishments primarily engaged in the
provision of broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished
through the use of electronic and telephonic mechanisms. Antennas, antenna
support structures and satellite dishes are included in this definition.
Typical uses include television studios, telecommunication service centers,
telegraph service offices, or film and sound recording facilities.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT. Those departments assigned by the City
Administrator to oversee the various aspects of development within the city.
Such departments may include but are not limited to planning, building safety,
code enforcement, and engineering.
   COMMUNITY GARDEN. A public or private facility for cultivation of fruits,
flowers, vegetables or ornamental plants by more than one person or group.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A permitted use that, because of special requirements or
characteristics, may only be allowed in a particular zoning district after
review by the city and granting of conditional use permit which imposes
conditions deemed necessary to make the use compatible with other uses
permitted in the same zone or vicinity. Conditional uses that cannot be
adequately controlled through conditions shall be prohibited. Approved
conditional uses and their conditions run with the land and are not specific to
property owners.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of property ownership providing for individual ownership
of space in a structure together with an individual interest in the land or
other parts of the structure in common with other owners. Residential
condominium dwelling units are subject to the provisions of the Minnesota
Condominium Law, M.S. §§ 515.01 to 515.29, as they may be amended from time to
time.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A conservation easement is legal land preservation
agreement between a landowner and a municipality or a qualified land protection
organization. The easement confers the transfer of usage rights from one party
to another.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A disturbance to the land that results in a change in
the topography, or the existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-
vegetative). Examples of construction activity may include clearing, grading,
filling and excavating.
   CONSTRUCTION TRAILER. Trailers used as temporary offices to meet a short-
term need while the permanent facilities are being expanded. A temporary use
permit is required for such office trailers.
   CONTRACTOR. The party who signs the permit, application, construction
contract, or development agreement with the city to construct a project. Where
the construction project involves more than one contractor, the general
contractor shall be the contractor that is responsible pursuant to the
obligations set forth in this chapter.
   CONTRACTORS YARD - TEMPORARY. A location on which a construction contractor
operating with a current permit for construction of public utilities,
infrastructure, or other project on public property, rights-of-way, or public
easements, stores equipment, temporary office space, vehicles, and materials
for no more than a two-year period.
   CONVENIENCE RETAIL. A retail store not more than 4,000 square feet in area
that generally carries a reduced inventory of a variety of items such as dairy
products, minor automobile related items, groceries, novelties, magazines, etc.
A convenience store may be combined with vehicle fuel sales where permitted.
   COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multiple-family attached dwelling owned and
maintained by the residents. The entire structure and real property is under
common ownership as contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units
are under separate individual occupant ownership.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A membership club or business organized and operated primarily
to provide recreational activities such as golf, swimming, tennis, and other
outdoor recreation to its members and their guests which includes facilities
such as a club house, banquet areas, locker rooms, and pro shop.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on two or
more sides by the walls of the buildings.
   CREMATORY. A facility containing furnaces for the reduction of dead bodies
to ashes by fire.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   DAY CARE - HOME. See definitions for GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.
   DECIDUOUS TREE. A tree that generally loses all of its leaves for part of
the year.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site at any point extending above grade.
   DENSITY, BASE. The number of dwelling units allowed per net acre of land.
   DENSITY, MAXIMUM. The number of dwelling units potentially allowed per net
acre of land if certain conditions are met through either performance standards
or the planned unit development process.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. See RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES (OTHER).
   DEPOSIT. Any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other material deposited naturally
or by man into a water body, watercourse, floodplain, or wetland.
   DEWATERING. The removal of water for construction activity such as the
removal of temporary sediment basin water or appropriated surface or
groundwater to dry and/or solidify a construction site.
   DISTRICT. An area delineated on the official zoning map that sets forth
standards and guidelines for all development within the prescribed zoning
district.
   DONATION DROP-OFF CONTAINER. A receptacle designed with a door, slot, or
other opening that is intended to accept and store donated items.
   DRAINING. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land.
   DREDGING. To enlarge or clean out a water body, watercourse, or wetland.
   DRIPLINE. A vertical line that extends from the outermost branches of a
tree's canopy to the ground around the circumference of the tree.
   DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE. A building opening, including windows, doors, or
mechanical devices, through which occupants of a motor vehicle receive or
obtain a product or service.
   DUMPSTER. A container that has a hooking mechanism that permits it to be
raised and dumped into a sanitation truck or be hauled away for emptying.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, and boarding houses.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A structure intended for occupancy by more than one
family, including duplexes, townhomes, multi-family dwellings, apartments, and
condominiums. Accessory dwelling units as defined and permitted by this chapter
are incidental to a principal dwelling unit and are not considered to be
attached dwellings.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX OR TWO-FAMILY. Any building that contains two separate
dwelling units with separation either horizontal or vertical on one lot that is
used, intended, or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out
to be occupied, or occupied for living purposes.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. Any building that contains one dwelling
unit used, intended, or designed to be guilt, used, rented, leased, let or
hired out to be occupied, or occupied for living purposes by one family.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed with three or more dwelling
units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently
of each other but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits.
   DWELLING UNIT. An area within a structure designed and constructed to be
occupied by one family which includes permanent provisions for living, cooking,
and sanitation. Dwelling unit does not include hotels, motels, correctional
facilities, nursing/convalescent home, rehabilitation centers, or other
structures designed for transient residence. In group residential facilities,
multi-family, each separate bedroom, combined with all common areas up to 520
square feet of gross building floor area shall be considered one potential
dwelling unit for purposes of calculating dwelling unit density on a multi-
family parcel.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room
exclusive of bathroom, hallway, closets, or dining alcove, and has limited
provisions for cooking (kitchenette).
   ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV) CHARGING STATION FACILITY: ELECTRIC VEHICLE (EV)
CHARGING STATION FACILITY. An EV CHARGING STATION (or "charger") is a facility
designed and constructed to supply electricity for the purpose of charging one
electric motor vehicle, together with  the transformers, batteries, inverters,
connections, cables, and other equipment necessary to supply such electricity.
For the purposes of this chapter, a facility that can serve more than one
vehicle at a time shall be deemed to consist of multiple charging stations.
   ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR COMMERCIAL. An establishment providing completely
enclosed recreation or entertainment activities. Accessory uses may include the
preparation and serving of food or the sale of equipment related to the
enclosed uses. Examples of indoor commercial entertainment businesses include
bowling alleys, roller and ice-skating rinks, billiards halls, swimming pools,
motion picture theaters, and similar amusements. Indoor commercial
entertainment uses do not include event centers or adult uses.
   ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL. An establishment providing recreation or
entertainment activities primarily occurring outdoors. Accessory uses may
include the preparation and serving of food, the sale of equipment related to
the outdoor uses, and complementary indoor entertainment facilities. Examples
of outdoor commercial entertainment businesses include, but are not limited to,
golf driving ranges, sand volleyball courts, go-carts, and miniature golf
courses. Outdoor commercial entertainment uses do not include projectile weapon
ranges (archery or shooting), sports stadiums or drive-in movie theaters.
   ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind, water, ice and/or land disturbance activities.
   EROSION CONTROL. A measure that prevents erosion including but not limited
to: soil stabilization practices, limited grading, mulch, temporary or
permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   EROSION CONTROL INSPECTOR. A designated agent given authority by the City of
Monticello to inspect and maintain erosion and sediment control practices.
   EROSION PREVENTION. Measures employed to prevent erosion. Examples include,
but are not limited to: soil stabilization practices, limited grading, mulch,
temporary or permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Public or private utility systems for gas, electricity,
steam, sewer and water; voice, television, and digital communications systems;
and waste disposal and recycling services. These services include underground,
surface, and overhead systems and all accessories thereto such as poles,
towers, wires, mains, drains, vaults, culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch
basins, water storage tanks, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, pumps, lift stations, hydrants, and other similar
features necessary for the function of the essential service. Wireless radio
frequency reception and transmission antennas and support structures shall not
be considered an essential service. Essential services do not include buildings
or uses that include human occupancy or activity beyond occasional service or
maintenance.
   EVENT CENTER. A multi-purpose commercial venue (public or privately owned)
used for the purposes of performances, trade shows, corporate functions,
sporting events, private receptions or parties, holiday gatherings or similar
attractions.
      (1)   Common characteristics of event centers, which differentiate such
uses from places of public assembly, often include but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Varied and/or irregular activity schedules.
         (b)   The display and/or sale of retail commercial goods.
         (c)   The generation of high traffic volumes at varied time periods.
         (d)   Commercial activities and uses in coordination with the events.
         (e)   Locations in commercial districts.
         (f)   Alcohol service as licensed.
      (2)   Accessory uses may include food preparation facilities,
concessions, offices, museums, parks, athletic training or practice facilities,
stores, restaurants, structured parking facilities, and patron transportation
facilities. Event centers do not include adult uses and places of public
assembly.
   EVERGREEN TREE. A tree that retains some or most of its leaves or needles
throughout the year.
   EXCAVATION. The process of reshaping land at a construction site. This can
include raising or lowering ground levels, adding or removing slopes or
leveling the ground surface. In general, it has two main purposes: creating
proper drainage; preparing land to bear weight. Excavation may remove soil or
other materials from a site, but is distinguished from EXTRACTION in that
excavation is specifically related to a construction project. Also GRADING.
   EXISTING TREE CANOPY. The crowns of all healthy self-supporting canopy trees
with a diameter at breast height (DBH) of ten inches or greater and understory
trees with a caliper size of four inches or greater at breast height.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not regulated under M.S. §§
93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to time. Also MINING.
   FAMILY. An individual or group that maintains a common household and use of
common cooking and kitchen facilities and common entrances to a single dwelling
unit, where the group consists of:
      (1)   Two or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
domestic partnership, adoption, legal guardianship (including foster children);
or
      (2)   Not more than four unrelated persons.
   FARMERS MARKET. An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or in
a structure where groups of individual sellers offer for sale to the public
such items as fresh produce, seasonal fruits, fresh flowers, arts and crafts
items, and food and beverages (but not to include second-hand goods) dispensed
from booths located on-site.
   FENCE. A tangible barrier constructed of any allowable material erected for
the purpose of providing a boundary or as a means of protection, or to prevent
uncontrolled access, or for decorative purposes (such as an ornamental gate or
ornamental gates), or to screen from viewers in or on adjoining properties and
streets, materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
   FILLING. The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other
material so as to change the natural grade of the land; and/or to fill or
partly fill a water body, watercourse, or wetland.
   FINAL GRADE. Excavation or fill of material to final plan elevation. Final
grade completed as part of individual site development.
   FINAL STABILIZATION.
      (1)   All soil disturbing activities at the site have been completed and
a uniform (e.g., evenly distributed, without large bare areas) perennial
vegetative cover with a density of 70% of the native background vegetative
cover for the area has been established on all unpaved areas and areas not
covered by permanent structures, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures
(such as the use of riprap, gabions, or geotextiles) have been employed;
      (2)   For individual lots in residential construction by the contractor,
the contractor must either: (a) complete final stabilization as specified
above; or (b) establish temporary stabilization including perimeter controls
for an individual lot prior to occupation of the structure. If the contractor
chooses (b), it must inform the owner in writing of the requirements for final
stabilization;
      (3)   For construction projects on land used for agricultural purposes
(e.g., pipelines across crop or range land) final stabilization may be
accomplished by returning the disturbed land to its preconstruction
agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not previously used for
agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately adjacent to surface
waters and drainage systems and areas which are not being returned to their
preconstruction agricultural use must meet the final stabilization criteria in
subparts (a) or (b) above;
      (4)   The contractor must clean out all sediment from conveyances and
from temporary sedimentation basins that are to be used as permanent water
quality management basins. Sediment must be stabilized to prevent it from
washing back into the basin, conveyances or drainage ways discharging off-site
or to surface waters. The cleanout of permanent basins must be sufficient to
return the basin to design capacity. All drainage ditches constructed to drain
water from the site after construction is complete must be stabilized to
preclude erosion; and
      (5)   All temporary synthetic and structural erosion prevention and
sediment control BMPs (such as silt fence) must be removed as part of the final
stabilization on the site.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. An establishment that provides retail banking
services, mortgage lending, or similar financial services to individuals and
businesses. Financial institutions include those establishments engaged in the
on-site circulation of cash money and check-cashing facilities, but shall not
include bail bond brokers. Financial institutions may also provide automated
teller machine (ATM) services, located within a fully enclosed space or
building, along an exterior building wall intended to serve walk-up customers
only, or in a city authorized drive-thru lane.
   FINISHING STANDARD. Criterion established to control and limit the impacts
generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or buildings. The term "finishing
standard" shall be synonymous with "performance standard."
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of the
material, usually to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material
by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors, patterns,
symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the flood
insurance study for the City of Monticello.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal plot of water surface elevations of
a flood event along a reach of a stream or river.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustment to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. See §
153.010(B)(4).
   FLOOR AREA - FINISHABLE. Area within a building-exclusive of mechanical,
garage, or unfinished storage space-that could meet all requirements of
"finished floor area" after improvements are completed.
   FLOOR AREA - FINISHED. To qualify as finished floor area, the space shall be
at or above the finished exterior grade, or in the case of lower levels, no
less than 42 inches below such grade; must have heat; flooring such as carpet,
vinyl, tile, wood or other similar floor covering; a ceiling and walls covered
with gypsum board, plaster, or wood which is stained, painted or covered with
other residential wall/ceiling covering prior to occupancy. Basements that are
neither "look out" or "walk out" levels may be finished, but shall not be
counted towards a minimum finished square footage calculation.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   FREEWAY CORRIDOR (SIGN) AREA. A special signing area encompassing land
located within 800 feet either side (north or south) of the centerline of
Interstate 94, in addition to certain areas along Trunk Highway 25 south of
Interstate 94 north of Dundas Road, East of Sandberg Road, and West of Cedar
Street as shown on the city's official Freeway Bonus Sign District Map.
   FUEL PUMP. Equipment or unit designed and constructed to supply gasoline,
diesel, natural gas, or other petroleum fuels and oils, electric charging,
hydrogen, or any other fuel intended to power motor vehicles.
   FUNERAL SERVICES. An establishment that provides human funeral services,
including embalming and memorial services. Crematories are accessory uses to a
funeral home.
   GARAGE. An attached or detached accessory structure for the purpose of
parking vehicles.
   GARAGE SALE. The sale of miscellaneous used items commonly associated with
residential use. Garage sales shall not be for the sale of primarily a single
commodity. The term "garage sale" includes "sidewalk sale," "yard sale,"
"basement sale," and "estate sale."
   GENERAL WAREHOUSING. Structures used for the storage or distribution of
goods where there is no sale of items to retailers or the general public unless
permitted as an accessory use to the warehouse.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   GRADING, DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL PERMIT. A permit issued by the
municipality for the construction or alteration of the ground and for the
improvements and structures for the control of erosion, runoff, and grading.
Herein after referred to as "grading permit".
   GRADING, DRAINAGE AND EROSION CONTROL PLANS. A set of plans prepared by or
under the direction of a licensed professional engineer. Plans are required to
indicate the specific measures and sequencing to be used to control grading,
sediment and erosion on a development site during and after construction as
detailed in the City of Monticello "Plan Requirements and Design Guidelines".
   GREENHOUSE/CONSERVATORY. A structure, primarily of glass, in which
temperature and humidity can be controlled for the cultivation or protection of
plants.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, MULTI-FAMILY. A state-licensed facility, public
or private, which regularly provides a planned combination of living
conditions, services, and resources for the treatment, rehabilitation,
training, supervision, or care of persons residing on the premises which falls
into one of the following categories: 1) a state licensed residential facility
serving between seven and 16 persons; or 2) a licensed day care facility
serving between 13 and 16 persons. This term does not include any type of
residential or non-residential facility for persons convicted of crimes, or for
persons accused of crimes who are diverted to the facility before conviction;
nor does it include a residential facility whose primary purpose is to treat
juveniles who have violated criminal statutes relating to sex offenses or have
been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in violation of criminal
statutes relating to sex offenses.
   GROUP RESIDENTIAL FACILITY, SINGLE-FAMILY. A state-licensed facility, public
or private, which regularly provides a planned combination of living
conditions, services, and resources for the treatment, rehabilitation,
training, supervision, or care of persons residing on the premises which falls
into one of the following categories: 1) a state licensed residential facility
serving six or fewer persons; 2) registered housing with services establishment
serving six or fewer persons; 3) a licensed day care facility serving 12 or
fewer persons; or 4) a group family day care facility licensed to serve 14 or
fewer children. This term does not include any type of residential or non-
residential facility for persons convicted of crimes, or for persons accused of
crimes who are diverted to the facility before conviction; nor does it include
a residential facility whose primary purpose is to treat juveniles who have
violated criminal statutes relating to sex offenses or have been adjudicated
delinquent on the basis of conduct in violation of criminal statutes relating
to sex offenses.
   GROWLER. A 64 fluid ounce (1.89 liter) container of beer that is made
available for purchase at the brewery where it's produced. Said container is
available for off-sale consumption only.
   HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE. See HEAVY MANUFACTURING.
   HELIPORT. An area used or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of
helicopters, and may include any or all of the areas of buildings appropriate
to accomplish these functions.
   HIGH RISK TREE. Any tree with structural defects sufficient to render the
tree or part of the tree likely to fail and cause damage to persons, property,
or other significant vegetation, as determined by a qualified arborist or other
tree professional.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation carried on in a dwelling unit by the resident
thereof; provided that the use is limited in extent and incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof.
   HOOP BUILDING (see also TARP GARAGE). A portable or permanently anchored
structure defined mainly by a steel or PVC frame over which a cover made from
plastic, tarp, or other similar type fabrics or materials is placed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1754.png]
   HOSPITAL. A facility providing medical, psychiatric, or surgical services
for sick or injured persons primarily on an inpatient basis, including
ancillary facilities for outpatient and emergency treatment, diagnostic
services, training, research, and administration, and services to patients,
employees, or visitors.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, parking
lots, storage areas and concrete, asphalt, or gravel driveways or roads.
   INDOOR FOOD/CONVENIENCE SALES. A small retail establishment located within
or associated with another use that offers for sale prepared food or
convenience goods such as prepackaged food items, tobacco, periodicals, and
other household goods.
   INDUSTRIAL SELF-STORAGE. A land use characterized by larger spaces available
to occupants for the purposes of storage of commercial, industrial, or personal
goods, as well as business, industrial, or hobby activities accessory to such
storage as may be permitted within the zoning district, provided that no such
space is subdivided to a total area that is less than 2,000 square feet in
area.
   INDUSTRIAL SERVICES (GENERAL). Businesses that are engaged in the repair or
servicing of industrial, business, or consumer machinery, equipment, products,
or by-products; or providing other related services primarily for industrial
businesses. Industrial service firms that service consumer goods do so by
mainly providing centralized services for separate retail outlets. Also
includes firms such as contractors and building maintenance services and
similar establishments engaged in performance of services off-site. Few
customers, especially the general public, come to the site. Accessory
activities may include retail sales, offices, parking and storage.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
   LAKE, GENERAL DEVELOPMENT. Lakes that usually have more than 225 acres of
water per mile of shoreline and 25 dwellings per mile of shoreline, and are
more than 15 feet deep.
   LAKE, NATURAL ENVIRONMENT. Lakes that usually have less than 150 total
acres, less than 60 acres per mile of shoreline, and less than three dwellings
per mile of shoreline. They may have some winter kill of fish; may have
shallow, swampy shoreline; and are less than 15 feet deep.
   LAKE, RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT. Lakes that usually have between 60 and 225
acres of water per mile of shoreline, between three and 25 dwellings per mile
of shoreline, and are more than 15 feet deep.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands
within the city's jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, clearing,
grubbing, grading, excavating, transporting and filling.
   LAND RECLAMATION. The reclaiming of land by the importation, depositing, or
grading of soils in excess of 400 cubic yards so as to elevate the grade.
   LANDSCAPE STRIP, PERIMETER. Vegetative material associated with the
perimeter landscaping required for a vehicular use area.
   LANDSCAPING/NURSERY BUSINESS. A retail business devoted to the growth,
display, and/or sale of plants, shrubs, trees; and/or landscaping materials and
services.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USE. See MANUFACTURING, LIGHT.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to such date and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by one principal building or principal use together with any
accessory buildings and such open spaces as required by this chapter and having
its principal frontage upon a street.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of this zoning regulation, having not less than the minimum area required by
this zoning chapter for a building site in the district in which such lot is
situated and having its principal frontage on a street or a proposed street
approved by the Council. LOT related definitions (e.g. lot depth, lot area, lot
corner, etc): see §
153.010(B).
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50, as
amended from time to time.
   MACHINERY/TRUCK REPAIR. This business performs mechanical, electrical,
structural, and cosmetic repairs to trucks and heavy equipment. Allowed: Tune
ups and adjustment, replacement of parts, rebuilding of parts or components
when installation is available, body repair, collision service and painting,
frame straightening and repair, steam cleaning and/or sandblasting,
undercoating and rust proofing, radiator repair, tire repair, wheel alignment
and balancing, washing, cleaning, and polishing.
   MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPE. A planned, intentional, and maintained planting
of native or nonnative grasses, wildflowers, forbs, ferns, shrubs, or trees,
including but not limited to rain gardens, meadow vegetation, and ornamental
plants. MANAGED NATURAL LANDSCAPES does not include turf-grass lawns left
unattended for the purpose of returning to a natural state.
   MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME. A structure transportable in one or more
sections which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on a side, is 760 or more square
feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained in it, and which complies with the manufactured home building
code (M.S. § 327.31, as it may be amended from time to time).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been developed
for the placement of manufactured homes and is owned by an individual, firm,
trust, partnership, public or private association, or corporation.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The manufacturing of products from raw or unprocessed
materials, where the finished product may be combustible or explosive. This
category shall also include any establishment or facility using large
unscreened outdoor structures such as conveyor belt systems, cooling towers,
cranes, storage silos, or similar equipment that cannot be integrated into the
building design, or engaging in large-scale outdoor storage. Any industrial use
that generates noise, odor, vibration, illumination, or particulate that may be
offensive or obnoxious to adjacent land uses, or requires a significant amount
of on-site hazardous chemical storage shall be classified under this land use.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The mechanical transformation of predominantly
previously prepared materials into new products, including assembly of
component parts and the creation of products for sale to the wholesale or
retail markets or directly to consumers. Such uses are wholly confined within
an enclosed building, do not include processing of hazardous gases and
chemicals, and do not emit noxious noise, smoke, vapors, fumes, dust, glare,
odor, or vibration.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof like structure projecting beyond a theater
building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MAXIMUM DENSITY. The number of dwelling units allowed per gross acre of land
as controlled by an individual or joint ownership group.
   MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are native
to, or adapted to, the State of Minnesota, and that are commonly found in
meadow and prairie plant communities, not including noxious weeds.
   MEAN GROUND LEVEL. The elevation established for the purpose of regulating
the number of stories and the height of buildings. Grade shall be the mean
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the buildings.
   MICRO-DISTILLERY. A distillery that produces 40,000 proof gallons of liquor
or less annually.
   MULTIPLE-TENANT SITE. Any site which has more than one tenant, and each
tenant has a separate ground level exterior public entrance.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The program for
issuing, modifying, revoking, reissuing, terminating, monitoring, and enforcing
permits under the Clean Water Act (Sections 301, 318, 402, and 405) and United
States Code of Federal Regulations Title 33, Sections 1317, 1328, 1342, and
1345.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All land surface areas which by nature of their
contour configuration, collect, store and channel surface water run-off.
   NATURAL OBSTRUCTION. Means any rock, tree, gravel, or analogous natural
matter that is an obstruction and has been located within a water body,
watercourse, or wetland by a nonhuman cause.
   NEXT AVAILABLE AGENDA. The next meeting at which an application can be heard
by a reviewing body after consideration of the anticipated time for review and
other items already scheduled for future agendas. The Community Development
Department has full discretion to select the best future meeting date that will
accommodate the administrative and official review of an item provided the
overall timeframe for review will comply with all state mandated review
deadlines.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building, the size,
dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to effective date of this
chapter as denoted in §
153.004, or on the effective date of any amendment to this chapter, but that
fails by reason of such adoption or amendment to conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use lawfully being made of any land, building, or
structure not otherwise abandoned, existing on effective date of this chapter
as denoted in §
153.004 or on the effective date of any amendment of this chapter, that does
not comply with the use regulations of this chapter or the amendment.
   NURSING HOME (CONVALESCENT HOME). A facility that provides nursing services
and custodial care generally on a 24-hour basis for two or more unrelated
individuals who for reasons of illness, physical infirmity, or advanced age,
require such services; but not including hospitals, clinics, sanitariums, or
similar institutions.
   OBSTRUCTION (IN RELATION TO FLOODPLAINS). Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification,
culvert, building, wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter
in, along, across, or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory
floodplain which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of
water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" in this chapter.
   OFFICE USE. An establishment primarily engaged in providing professional,
financial, administrative, clerical, and similar services.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of such size as to accommodate
one truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPACITY (OPAQUE). A measurement indicating the degree of obscuration of
light or visibility. An object that is 100% opaque is impenetrable by light.
   OPEN SALES. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling, and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
This use includes all outdoor sales and display of goods and/or materials that
are not specifically addressed as outdoor storage, sidewalk sales and display,
or off-street vehicle parking.
   OPEN SPACE. An area on a lot not occupied by any structure or impervious
surface.
   OPEN SPACE, USABLE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped, and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
usable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways, and parking areas shall not constitute
usable open space.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER (NEW SHORELAND DISTRICT CODE). The boundary of public
waters which may include wetlands, and shall be an elevation delineating the
highest water level which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time
to leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For
watercourses, the ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the
bank of the channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high water level
is the operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   ORNAMENTAL PLANTS. Grasses, perennials, annuals, and groundcovers
purposefully planted for aesthetic reasons.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an un-roofed area, of any goods, material,
merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours. This shall
not include the display of vehicles for sale in a new or used car sales lot.
   OUTPATIENT CARE. Medical examination or service available to the public in a
hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall be
considered a separate, independent, principal use when combined or operated in
conjunction with a hospital.
   OWNER. The person or entity with a legal or equitable interest in the land
on which the construction activities will occur.
   PARAPET. A low wall which is located perpendicular to (extension of front
wall) a roof of a building.
   PARK FACILITY, ACTIVE. A park or recreation facility that includes one or
more of the following: buildings, lighting, ball fields, tennis courts,
swimming pools, skate parks, golf courses, or other active sports facilities.
Active park facilities will commonly include benches, picnic areas, trails,
sidewalks, and other similar features.
   PARK FACILITY, PASSIVE. A park or recreational facility that does not
include the construction of facilities, lighting, or development of ball fields
or other active sports facilities. Passive parks may include benches, picnic
areas, trails and sidewalks.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. The act of keeping a passenger vehicle as defined
herein and/or small commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles and emergency
vehicles as defined herein, on an approved parking space, properly surfaced,
for a period of less than 24 hours.
   PARKING BAY. The parking module consisting of one or two rows of parking
spaces or stalls and the aisle from which motor vehicles enter and leave the
spaces.
   PARKING ISLAND. Landscaped areas within parking lots used to separate
parking areas and to soften the overall visual impact of a large parking area
from adjacent properties.
   PARKING LOT DRIVE AISLE. A vehicular accessway located within an off-street
parking or vehicular use area which serves individual parking stalls and
driveways.
   PARKING SPACE/STALL. An area enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed sufficient in size to store one automobile which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of an automobile.
   PARKING STRUCTURE. A structure designed to accommodate vehicular parking
spaces that are fully or partially enclosed or located on the deck surface of a
building. This definition includes parking garages, decks, and ramp parking.
   PARKING, SURFACED. A parking space or storage space which is paved, or
surfaced with crushed rock, such as Class V limestone, crushed or decomposed
granite, "con-bit", or landscaping rock of adequate durability to support the
load parked or stored thereon.
   PARKING, UNSURFACED. A storage space which is covered by vegetation, such as
grass or other landscaped cover, and which is mowed or trimmed to meet the
city's weed control regulations. Unsurfaced space may not include bare ground
which may be subject to erosion, tracking of mud onto the roadway, or drainage
of silt into a public drainage easement or waterway.
   PASSENGER TERMINAL. A place that receives and discharges passengers which
generally includes facilities and equipment required for the operation.
Examples include terminals for bus, taxi, railroad, shuttle van, or other
similar vehicular services. This definition does not include bus stops or
similar transfer points for passengers at which no facilities (excluding a
bench or shelter) are provided.
   PAVED. A parking space or storage space which is surfaced with only the
following materials: Asphalt, concrete, and natural or man-made paving stones
such as brick, granite, or concrete pavers, provided such pavers have a flat
surface area of no less than nine square inches.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control and limit the impacts
generated by, or inherent in, uses of land or buildings. The term "performance
standard" shall be synonymous with "finishing standard."
   PERIMETER SEDIMENT CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a
site by filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or
basin.
   PERMANENT COVER. Final stabilization.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards (if any) of such districts.
   PERMITTEE. Applicant for and recipient of an approved permit.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments that primarily engage in providing
services generally involving the care of the person or person's possessions.
Personal services may include but are not limited to: laundry and dry-cleaning
services, barber shops, beauty salons, health and fitness studios, music
schools, informational and instructional services, tanning salons, body art
(including tattooing), and portrait studios. This use may also include indoor
pet grooming services for dogs, cats and/or small household pets as permitted
by city code, not including animal kennel/boarding or overnight care, outdoor
activities or veterinary activities.
   PHASING (IN RELATION TO GRADING). Clearing a parcel of land in distinct
phases, with the stabilization of each phase completed before the clearing of
the next.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. An institution or facility that congregations of
people regularly attend to participate in or hold meetings, workshops,
lectures, civic activities, religious services, and other similar activities,
including buildings in which such functions and activities are held. Places of
public assembly are characterized by individuals arriving and departing at
regularly scheduled times and do not include event centers. Common
characteristics of places of public assembly, which differentiate such uses
from event centers, may include but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Regular activity schedules.
      (2)   No display and/or sale of retail commercial goods or services.
      (3)   The generation of traffic at routine time periods.
      (4)   Predictable traffic volumes during activities.
      (5)   Locations that may be in commercial, industrial, or residential
zoning districts.
   PLAN REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN GUIDELINES. Manual detailing city
specifications for all plan requirements.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development which may incorporate a
variety of land uses planned and developed as a unit. The planned unit
development is distinguished from the traditional subdivision process of
development in that zoning standards such as density, setbacks, height limits,
and minimum lot sizes may be altered by negotiation and agreement between the
developer, the municipality, and the Commissioner of Natural Resources as may
be required.
   PLANTING STRIP. Areas intended for the placement of vegetation within the
interior of vehicular use areas or along street right-of-way edges, typically
between the back of the curb and the inside edge of the sidewalk.
   PORTABLE CONTAINER. A large container designed and rented or leased for the
temporary storage of commercial, industrial, or residential household goods
that does not contain a foundation or wheels for movement.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17, as amended from time to
time.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses.
   PRODUCTION BREWERY. A facility that manufactures, processes and warehouses
beer for wholesale distribution in off-sale packages to retail liquor
establishments and may retail beer product for on-site consumption in a taproom
for off-site consumption as growlers. A production brewer may not have an
ownership interest in a brewery licensed under Minnesota Statutes.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE - SERVICES. A commercial use involving administrative,
clerical, or professional operations, and routinely including direct
transactions or consultations with clients for such services. Such uses
commonly include legal, financial, insurance, or real estate services, among
others, but do not include retail sales of stock-in-trade goods.
   PUBLIC BUILDING OR USE. Any facility, including but not limited to buildings
and property that are leased or otherwise operated or funded by a governmental
body or public entity.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A “public building or use” that provides a variety of
services and facilities for both public and private activities, which may
include the following: city offices; U.S. or State of Minnesota military
offices; recreation facilities and classes; public assembly uses; senior
citizen community rooms and activities; event center gatherings; and support
facilities for any of the above. Individual public space and/or facilities
within a COMMUNITY CENTER may be used, leased or rented to other entities,
including private individuals or groups as an incidental and accessory aspect
of such space or facility, at the discretion of the public agency owner/manger.
   PUBLIC WAREHOUSING. The indoor storage of equipment and/or materials by a
government agency which may, or may not, be related to other principal uses on
the same property.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15, 15a, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   RAIN GARDEN. A native plant garden that is designed not only to
aesthetically improve properties, but also to reduce the amount of stormwater
and accompanying pollutants from entering streams, lakes, and rivers.
   REACH (IN RELATION TO FLOODPLAINS). A hydraulic engineering term to describe
a longitudinal segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made
obstruction. In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two
consecutive bridge crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
   REAL ESTATE OFFICE/MOBILE SALES HOME. A dwelling temporarily used as a sales
office for a residential development under construction for on-site sales.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE CAMP SITE. A lot or parcel of land occupied or intended
for occupancy by recreational vehicles for travel, recreational, or vacation
usage for short periods of stay subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   RECYCLING AND SALVAGE CENTER. A facility engaged solely in the storage,
processing, resale, or reuse of recyclable and recovered materials.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the term "base flood"
used in the flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   REPAIR ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
repair services for TV's, bicycles, clocks, watches, shoes, guns, canvas
products, appliances, and office equipment; including tailor; locksmith; and
upholsterer.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. Ch. 245G, as amended
from time to time.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where meals or prepared food, including
beverages and confections, are served to customers for consumption on or off
the premises. Such a facility may include indoor and outdoor seating and/or
drive through services.
   RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES (OTHER). A commercial land use where the
establishment is primarily engaged in the sale or rental of goods and materials
to the general public, accepts payment or orders for, and delivers to the end
user a good or service. Elements of the retail business include stock-in-trade
held on the premises in the case of goods or provides a service to the end user
on the premises. Retail businesses may arrange for delivery of a good rather
than deliver the good concurrent with the transaction, or may accept payment or
orders electronically in advance, for delivery of the good or service in person
at a later date. Retail commercial uses do not include those business engaged
primarily in delivery of goods for further treatment or finishing, or the sale
of goods to businesses for subsequent resale, sale of goods from moveable
motorized vehicles, or medical clinics. Where the Zoning Ordinance establishes
a separate class of use for a specific business, such business shall be subject
to the specific regulations applicable to such use.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state-
licensed cannabis retail business.
   RETAIL SERVICE. A retail service establishment is a form of retail business
that creates a product of value (either good or service) on site and delivers
said good or service to the end user on site. Examples of retail services
include businesses which fabricate and/or craft creative goods on site and both
display and sell such goods to the end user at the retail location such as
artist studios, bicycle shops, photography studios or similar uses. Where the
Zoning Ordinance establishes a separate class of use for a specific business,
such business shall be subject to the specific regulations applicable to such
use.
   RIVER, AGRICULTURAL. Rivers that run through intensively cultivated areas,
mainly in the southern and western area of Minnesota.
   RIVER, FORESTED. Rivers that are in forested, sparsely to moderately
populated areas with some roads; typically found in northeast, southwest and
north-central Minnesota
   RIVER, REMOTE. Rivers that are primarily in roadless, forested, sparsely
populated areas in northeastern Minnesota.
   RIVER, TRANSITION. Rivers that are in a mixture of cultivated, pasture and
forest lands.
   RIVER, TRIBUTARY. Rivers in the Protected Public Waters Inventory that are
not classified by the DNR as an agricultural, forested, remote or transition
river.
   ROOF. The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure. The structural makeup of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the International
Building Code.
   ROOT ZONE. The area inside the dripline of a tree that contains its roots.
   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05, as amended from
time to time, or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting requirements
under M.S. § 120A.24, as amended from time to time.
   SCHOOL, HIGHER EDUCATION. A public or private non-profit institution for
post-secondary education or a public or private school offering vocational or
trade instruction to students. Such educational institutions operate in
buildings or structures on land leased or owned by the educational institution
for administrative purposes. Such uses include classrooms, vocational training
(including that of an industrial nature for instructional purposes only),
laboratories, auditoriums, libraries, cafeterias, after school care, athletic
facilities, dormitories, and other facilities that further the educational
mission of the institution.
   SCHOOL, PRE-K-12. A public or private school offering general, technical, or
alternative instruction at the elementary, middle, or high school level that
operates in buildings or structures on land leased or owned by the educational
institution for administrative purposes. Such uses include classrooms,
vocational training (including that of an industrial nature for instructional
purposes only in middle or high schools), laboratories, auditoriums, libraries,
cafeterias, after school care, athletic facilities, dormitories, and other
facilities that further the educational mission of the institution.
   SCROLLING TEXT. A type of dynamic sign movement in which the letters or
symbols move horizontally across the sign in a continuous scroll, permitting a
viewer to observe the message over time. Scrolling shall not include flashing
or other types of video movement.
   SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and
organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, air or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface either above or
below water level.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures and methods employed to prevent sediment from
leaving the site.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings that contains equal
or varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls
or lockers for the storage of residential or commercial customer's goods or
wares.
   SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENIOR HOUSING. A multiple-family structure, 80% of whose occupants shall be
65 years of age or over, or a multiple-family structure where each unit is
occupied by at least one person who is 55 years of age or over and is retired.
The facility may include common areas for the congregation of occupants for
activities or meals. Senior housing shall typically consist of multiple-
household attached dwellings, but may include detached dwelling units as part
of a wholly owned and managed senior project.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance between a structure and the lot lines of
the lot on which it is located; or the minimum horizontal distance between a
structure, sewage treatment system or other facility and an ordinary high water
level, sewage treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line,
or other facility.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. a septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force main, and
all other construction, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHADE TREE. A tree planted or valued chiefly for its shade from sunlight;
this term usually applies to large trees with spreading canopies.
   SHELTER, FALLOUT. An accessory building specifically designed and used for
the protection of life from radioactive fallout.
   SHELTER, STORM. An accessory building specifically designed and used for the
protection of life from weather events.
   SHOPPING CENTER. An integrated grouping of commercial stores under single
ownership or control. See also RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the required
structure setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public water:
      (1)   One thousand feet from the ordinary high water mark of a lake,
pond, or flowages.
      (2)   Three hundred feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent
of a floodplain designated by ordinance on such river or stream, whichever is
greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved
are bounded by topographic divides that extend landward from the waters for
lesser distances and when approved by the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources or the commissioner's designated representative.
      (3)   The area included in the recreational land use districts for the
Mississippi River as defined in Minn. Rules Chapter 6105.0800-0950.
   SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, consisting of several small stems
emerging from the ground, or small branches near the ground. Shrubs may be
deciduous or evergreen.
   SIDEWALK SALES AND DISPLAY, OUTDOOR. Outdoor sale and display, conducted as
an accessory, incidental activity by the proprietor, of products normally sold
inside a retail establishment, subject to the limitations identified in this
chapter.
   SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter
or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message or
visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or constructed,
including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and structures,
which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing and
framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period of one
year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Signs applicable to a
business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining after demolition of
a principal structure shall be deemed to be abandoned. Where a sign has
received a special permit or other city approval, such approval shall run with
the principal use of the property, and such a sign shall be considered to be
abandoned under this definition when it meets the conditions specified in this
section, notwithstanding the prior special approval.
   SIGN, AREA. A sign identifying a series of related parcels or uses, rather
than a specific parcel or use.
   SIGN, AREA IDENTIFICATION. A freestanding sign which identifies the name of
a neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple residential complex
consisting of three or more structures, a shopping center consisting of five or
more separate business concerns, an industrial area, an office complex
consisting of three or more structures, or any combination of the above located
on contiguous property.
   SIGN, AWNING. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
   SIGN, BALLOON. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot, or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISEs SIGN.
   SIGN, BUILDING. Any sign attached or supported by any building.
   SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
canopy sign is not a marquee and is different from service area canopy signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1756.png]
 
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. A sign or portion thereof that has a reader board for
the display of text information in which each alphanumeric character, graphic
or symbol is defined by objects not consisting of an illumination device and
may be changed or rearranged manually or mechanically with characters,
illustrations, letters or numbers that can be changed or rearranged without
altering the face or surface of the sign structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1758.png]
 
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY (ELECTRONIC). A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, non-pictorial text information in which each alphanumeric
character, graphic, or symbol is defined by a small number of matrix elements
using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics,
light bulbs or other illumination devices within the display area. Electronic
changeable copy signs include computer programmable, microprocessor controlled
electronic displays. Electronic changeable copy signs include projected images
or messages with these characteristics onto buildings or objects. Electronic
changeable copy signs do not include official signs. Electronic changeable copy
signs may also be dynamic display signs if the definition of dynamic display
sign is met.
   SIGN, DYNAMIC DISPLAY. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have
movement or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent
movement or change is in the display, the sign structure or any other component
of the sign. This includes displays that incorporate technology or methods
allowing the sign face to change the image without having to physically or
mechanically replace the sign face or its components as well as any rotating,
revolving, moving, flashing, blinking or animated display and any display that
incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated through digital input,
digital ink or any other method or technology that allows the sign face to
present a series of images or displays. All dynamic displays are changeable
copy signs, but not all changeable copy signs are dynamic displays.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC DISPLAY. A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, static images, static graphics or static pictures, with or without
text information, defined by a small number of matrix elements using different
combinations of light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or
other illumination devices within the display area where the message change
sequence is accomplished immediately or by means of fade, repixalization or
dissolve modes. Electronic graphic display signs include computer programmable,
microprocessor controlled electronic or digital displays. Electronic graphic
display signs include projected images or messages with these characteristics
onto buildings or other objects.
   SIGN, FLASHING. A directly or indirectly illuminated sign or portion thereof
that exhibits changing light or color effect by any means, so as to provide
intermittent illumination that changes light intensity in sudden transitory
bursts and creates the illusion of intermittent flashing light by streaming,
graphic bursts showing movement, or any mode of lighting which resembles
zooming, twinkling or sparkling.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign which has supporting framework that is placed
on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any building or
other structure.
   SIGN, HEIGHT OF. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the mean ground level on which the sign is placed to the
top of the highest attached component of the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1760.png]
 
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. Signs in all districts which identify the business or
owner, or manager, or resident, and set forth the address of the premises where
the sign is located and which contain no other material.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which contains an element designed to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any building sign painted, mounted, constructed or attached
in any manner, on a marquee.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1762.png]
   SIGN, MONUMENT. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a total
height not exceeding 14 feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1764.png]
   SIGN, MULTI-VISION. Any sign composed in whole or part of a series of
vertical or horizontal slats or cylinders that are capable of being rotated at
intervals so that partial rotation of the group of slats or cylinders produces
a different image and when properly functioning allows on a single sign
structure the display at any given time one of two or more images.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A commercial speech sign which directs the attention of
the public to a business, activity conducted, or product sold or offered at a
location not on the same lot where such sign is located. For purposes of the
Sign Ordinance, easements and other appurtenances shall be considered to be
outside such lot and any sign located or proposed to be located in an easement
or other appurtenance shall be considered an off-premises sign.
   SIGN, OFFICIAL. Signs of a public noncommercial nature including public
notification signs, safety signs, traffic signs, direction to public facilities
when erected by or on behalf of a public official or employee in the
performance of official duty - See also "Public Sign".
   SIGN, POLE. See PYLON SIGN.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign which is manifestly designed to be transported,
including by trailer or on its own wheels, even though the wheels of such sign
may be removed and the remaining chassis or support is converted to another
sign or attached temporarily or permanently to the ground since this
characteristic is based on the design of such a sign.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such a
manner that its leading edge extends more than two feet beyond the surface of
such building or wall face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1766.png]
 
   SIGN, PUBLIC. Any sign posted by a governmental agency of a public,
noncommercial nature, to include signs indicating scenic or historical points
of interest, memorial plaques, and the like, and signs for civic interest
groups within the City of Monticello when signs are erected by or on order of a
public officer or employee in the performance of official duty - see also
OFFICIAL SIGN.
   SIGN, PYLON. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
pole(s) or beam(s) and with the area below the sign face open.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1768.png]
 
   SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof of
a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   SIGN, ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any building sign erected or constructed as an
integral or essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design,
so that no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the
roof and so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by
a space of more than six inches.
   SIGN, ROTATING SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which turns about on an
axis.
   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A sign placed near the entrance of a business, usually
on the public or private sidewalk, advertising particular aspects of the
business goods or services.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1770.png]
 
   SIGN, SHIMMERING. A sign which reflects an oscillating sometimes distorted
visual image.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. Any building sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is connected to such surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign which is erected or displayed for a specified
period of time, including, but not limited to, banners, search lights, portable
signs, streamers, pennants, inflatable devices.
   SIGN, TIME AND TEMPERATURE. A sign that displays only current time and
temperature information.
   SIGN, VIDEO DISPLAY. A sign that changes its message or background in a
manner or method of display characterized by motion or pictorial imagery, which
may or may not include text and depicts action or a special effect to imitate
movement, the presentation of pictorials or graphics displayed in a progression
of frames that gives the illusion of motion, including, but not limited to, the
illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or bands of light, or expanding or
contracting shapes, not including electronic changeable copy signs. Video
display signs include projected images or messages with these characteristics
onto buildings or other objects.
   SIGN, WALL. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any building sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes
or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1772.png]
 
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A historic site meets these
criteria if it is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to
meet the qualifications for listing after review by the Minnesota state
archaeologist or the director of the Minnesota Historical Society. All
unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be significant historic
sites.
   SITE LANDSCAPING. Required vegetative material consisting of trees and
shrubs that are placed on a development site to soften built edges and provide
transitions (see § 153.060(H)).
   SLOPE. Means the degree of deviation of surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy (direct, diffuse, and reflected) received from
the sun.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A set of devices whose primary purpose is to collect
solar energy and convert and store it for useful purposes including heating and
cooling buildings or other energy-using processes, or to produce generated
power by means of any combination of collecting, transferring, or converting
solar-generated energy. Solar energy systems are allowed only as accessory
structures in any zoning district other than Planned Unit Development
Districts, subject to the requirements of §
153.092.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event which plans for or can reasonably expect to attract
more than 100 persons at any one time such as cultural events, musical events,
celebrations, festivals, fairs, carnivals, etc.
   SPECIALTY EATING ESTABLISHMENTS. Establishments selling specialty food items
that normally do not constitute a full meal, including but not limited to: ice
cream parlors, dessert cafes, snack shops, juice and coffee houses, and
bakeries.
   SPEECH, COMMERCIAL. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   SPEECH, NON-COMMERCIAL. Dissemination of messages not classified as
commercial speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
   STABLE. A building in which horses are sheltered; may be accessory to a
residential or other use or a freestanding principal use.
   STABILIZATION/STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface has been covered by
appropriate materials such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, wood fiber blanket, or
other material that prevents erosion from occurring. Grass seeding is not
stabilization.
   STABLIZED. The exposed ground surface after it has been covered by
appropriate materials such as mulch, staked sod, riprap, wood fiber blankets,
or other material that prevents erosion from occurring. Grass seeding is not
considered stabilized until it has established and meets the definition of
final stabilization.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first land-disturbing activity associated with a
development, including land preparation such as clearing, grading, excavation
and filling;
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, which are not bluffs.
   STORMWATER. Defined and shall have the meaning given to it by Minn. Rules
7077.0105, subp. 41(b).
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan for stormwater
discharge that includes erosion prevention measures and sediment controls that,
when implemented, will minimize soil erosion on a parcel of land and minimize
off-site nonpoint pollution to the maximum extent practicable.
   STORY. See §
153.010(B)(5).
   STREET FRONTAGE. See §
153.010(B)(1)(f).
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, installed, or portable, the use of which
requires a location on a parcel of land. This includes a fixed or movable
building which can be used for residential, business, commercial, or office
purposes, either temporarily or permanently. STRUCTURE also includes, but is
not limited to, swimming pools, tennis courts, signs, sheds, docks, and similar
accessory construction.
   STRUCTURE, PUBLIC. A building or edifice of any kind which is owned or
rented, and operated by a federal, state, or local government agency.
   SUBDIVISION. Any real estate, wherever located, improved or unimproved,
which is divided or proposed to be divided for the purpose of sale or lease,
including sales or leases of any timeshare interest, unit in a common interest
community, or similar interest in real estate.
   SURFACE WATER OR WATERS. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands,
reservoirs, springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, wells,
reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems and all other bodies or accumulations
of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
   SWIMMING POOL. A structure, whether above or below grade level, designed to
hold water more than 24 inches deep to be used for recreational purposes
   TAPROOM. A room that is ancillary to the production of beer at a production
brewery where the public can purchase and /or consume only the beer produced on
site.
   TARP GARAGE. A portable or permanently anchored structure defined mainly by
a steel or PVC frame over which a cover made from plastic, tarp, or other
similar type fabrics or materials is placed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1774.png]
 
   TATTOO, TATTOOING. Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures,
symbols or any other mark upon, under or in the skin with ink or any other
substance resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles or any
other instruments which puncture any portion of the skin to any degree.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas.
   TEMPORARY EROSION PROTECTION. Short term methods employed to prevent
erosion. Examples of these methods include: straw, wood fiber blanket, wood
chips and erosion netting.
   TEMPORARY MOBILE CELL SITE. Any mobile tower, pole, or structure located on
a trailer, vehicle, or temporary platform intended primarily for the purpose of
mounting an antenna or similar apparatus for personal wireless services, also
commonly referred to as cellular on wheels (COW).
   TOE OF BLUFF. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
   TOP OF BLUFF. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
   TOTAL SITE SIGNAGE. The maximum permitted combined area of all signs allowed
on a specific lot.
   TOWNHOUSES. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of two or
more attached units in which each unit extends from the foundation to the roof
and having open space on at least two sides of each unit. Each single-family
dwelling unit shall be considered to be a separate building. No single
structure shall contain in excess of eight dwelling units, and each dwelling
unit shall have separate and individual front and rear entrance.
   TRASH HANDLING AND RECYCLING COLLECTION AREA. Areas designated for the
accumulation, storage and pick-up of refuse and recyclable material associated
with multi-family home sites, civic and institutional uses, office uses,
commercial uses, and industrial uses. This definition does not include trash
and recycling containers associated with single-family dwellings, or townhome
units which do not utilize a communal location for trash and recycling.
   TREE, CANOPY. A tree that has an expected height at maturity of 30 feet or
more.
   TREE, ORNAMENTAL. A small tree that has high visual impact typically grown
for the beauty of its foliage and flowers rather than its functional reasons.
   TREE, SPECIMEN. Any canopy tree with a DBH of 36 inches or more and any
understory or ornamental tree with a DBH of ten inches or more that is not
exempted as a specimen tree by this chapter.
   TREE, UNDERSTORY. A tree that has an expected height at maturity of no
greater than 30 feet.
   TREE SAVE AREA. The area around a specimen tree that extends one linear foot
around the tree's dripline.
   TRASH HANDLING AND RECYCLING COLLECTION AREA. Areas containing large
dumpsters or compactors used to temporarily store trash and recycling materials
prior to a regularly scheduled pick up. Such facilities are typically
associated with multi-family buildings of more than four units, commercial
operations and industrial sites.
   TRUCK OR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A use where buses, trucks, and cargo are stored,
where loading and unloading is carried on regularly, and where minor
maintenance of these types of vehicles is performed. This use includes
warehousing and distribution which entails transfer of goods and materials from
trucks to a building, where the primary use is the storage of trucks and
distribution and vice versa, and may or may not involve repackaging of such
goods for transfer. Such use may also entail transfer of full trailers from one
truck to another.
   TURF-GRASS LAWN COVER. A lawn compromised mostly of grasses commonly used in
regularly cut lawns or play areas, including but not limited to bluegrass,
fescue, and ryegrass blends, intended to be maintained at a height of no more
than eight inches.
   UNDERSTORY TREE. A tree that has an expected height at maturity of no
greater than 30 feet.
   UPLAND. Means all lands at an elevation above the ordinary high water mark.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized, or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this chapter.
   UTILITIES - MAJOR. Major utilities shall include the following:
      (1)   Public infrastructure services providing regional or community-wide
service that have regular employees on site during common working hours, and
entail the construction of new buildings or structures such as waste treatment
plants, potable water treatment plants, and solid waste facilities.
      (2)   Commercial wind energy conversion systems (public or private).
      (3)   Electrical substations.
   VARIANCE. The waving by board action of the literal provisions of the zoning
ordinance in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of physical circumstances unique to the individual property
under consideration.
   VEGETATION. Means the sum total of plant life in some area, or a plant
community with distinguishable characteristics.
   VEGETATION, NATIVE. Any indigenous tree, shrub, ground cover or other plant
adapted to the soil, climatic, and hydrographic conditions occurring on the
site.
   VEHICLE, EMERGENCY. For the purpose of evaluating vehicles which may be
parked in residential areas, the term emergency vehicle shall include
ambulances, police and sheriff's department vehicles, fire protection vehicles,
emergency towing vehicles, and other law enforcement vehicles.
   VEHICLE, PASSENGER. A vehicle capable of moving under its own power which is
licensed and operable for use on public roadways, and shall include the
following vehicles: Passenger automobiles, pick-up trucks and sport-utility
vehicles of less than 9,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, pick-up trucks and
sport-utility vehicles of between 9,000 pounds and 13,000 pounds with no
visible commercial messages, commuter vans of a capacity up to 16 persons, and
motorcycles.
   VEHICLE, RECREATIONAL.
      (1)   A vehicle that is used primarily for recreational or vacation
purposes, and which is licensed and operable for use on public roadways,
whether self-propelled, carried on, or towed behind a self-propelled vehicle.
      (2)   Operable recreational equipment that is not licensed for used on
the public roadway, but used off-road, such as all-terrain vehicles, boats,
off-road motorcycles, race vehicles, snowmobiles, or similar equipment. Such
equipment shall be properly licensed if the State of Minnesota provides for
such licensing.
      (3)   Licensed, operable trailers which may be used to tow recreational
equipment, whether such trailers are loaded or unloaded, including utility
trailers. Where a trailer is loaded with recreational equipment, such trailer
and equipment shall be considered to be one piece of equipment for the purposes
of this section.
   VEHICLE, LARGE COMMERCIAL. A vehicle used for commercial purposes which is a
semi-tractor and/or semi-trailer, dump truck, or any other commercial vehicle
that does not qualify under the definition of a "small commercial vehicle".
   VEHICLE, SMALL COMMERCIAL. A vehicle used primarily for commercial purposes,
including pick-up trucks and sport-utility vehicles larger than 9,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight, but less than 13,000 pounds gross vehicle weight which
display a commercial business message, and all other commercial vans or trucks,
regardless of commercial message which are no greater than any of the following
dimensions: 22 feet in length, eight feet in height, and eight and one-half
feet in width.
   VEHICLE FUEL SALES.
      (1)    Buildings and premises where dispensing, sale, or offering for
sale at retail (or in connection with a private operation where the general
public is excluded from use of facilities) of motor fuels, including gasoline,
diesel, natural gas, or other petroleum fuels and oils, electric charging
stations of more than two such stations, hydrogen, or any other fuel intended
to power motor vehicles of any sort, and where in addition, the following
services may be rendered and sales made, and other similar related uses:
         (a)   "Automotive repair - minor" as defined by this chapter;
         (b)   Retail sales of packaged foods, prepared foods and other
convenience goods for station customers, as accessory and incidental to
principal operation; and
         (c)   Provision of restroom facilities, but not including showers.
      (2)   Uses permissible at a vehicle fuel sales establishment do not
include "automobile repair - major" as defined by this chapter, major
mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, welding,
storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other work involving
noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than
normally found in filling stations. Vehicle fuel sales establishments are
intended for the servicing and delivery of goods to passenger vehicles and
small commercial vehicles. Facilities for sales to large trucks may be
included, but shall not include activities that would constitute uses most
commonly found at a truck stop, such as showers, truck washes, truck parking or
truck storage for more than temporary periods necessary to purchase and pay for
retail goods.
   VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL. Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale
of new and used-in operating condition-automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motor
homes, recreational vehicles or farm machinery; including incidental storage,
maintenance, and servicing.
   VEHICULAR USE AREA LANDSCAPING, INTERIOR. Vegetative material, structures
(walls or fences), berms, and associated ground cover located within the
interior of a parking lot, or other vehicular use area for the purposes of
providing visual relief and heat abatement (see § 153.060(F)).
   VEHICULAR USE AREA LANDSCAPING, PERIMETER. Vegetative material, structures
(walls or fences), berms, and associated ground cover located around the
perimeter of a parking lot, or other vehicular use area when such areas are
adjacent to a street right-of-way or land in a residential district or
residentially developed lands, used property for the purposes of screening the
vehicular use area from off-site views (see § 153.0604.1(F)).
   VETERINARY FACILITIES - NEIGHBORHOOD. An establishment for licensed
practitioners engaged in practicing veterinary medicine, dentistry, or surgery
for small household pets only.
   VETERINARY FACILITIES - RURAL. An establishment for licensed practitioners
engaged in practicing veterinary medicine, dentistry, or surgery for all
animals.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity (whether
legible or not) without visual aid.
   WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the
horizontal plane.
   WASTE DISPOSAL AND INCINERATION. A use which focuses on the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning, or other means and for whatever purpose,
of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof, or nontoxic waste material of any kind.
   WATER BODY. Means a body of water (lake, pond) in a depression of land or
expanded part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and surrounded
by land.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached
decks.
   WATERCOURSE. Means a channel or depression through which water flows such as
rivers, streams, or creeks and may flow year-round or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse or to the
public storm drain.
   WAYSIDE STAND. A temporary structure or vehicle used for the seasonal retail
sale of agricultural goods produced by the operator of the wayside stand; the
stand being clearly a secondary use of the premises which does not change the
character thereof.
   WETLANDS.
      (1)   Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For purposes of this chapter, wetlands must:
         (a)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
         (b)   Be inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
         (c)   Under normal circumstances, support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation.
      (2)   "A wetland" or "the wetland" means a distinct hydrologic feature
with characteristics of item A, surrounded by non-wetland and including all
contiguous wetland types, except those connected solely by riverine wetlands.
"Wetland area" means a portion of a wetland or the wetland.
      (3)   Wetlands do include public waters wetlands unless reclassified as
shoreland by the commissioner under M.S. § 103G.201, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (4)   The wetland size is the area within its boundary. The boundary must
be determined according to the United States Army Corps of Engineers Wetland
Delineation Manual (January 1987). The wetland type must be determined
according to Wetlands of the United States, (1971 edition). Both documents are
incorporated by reference under part 8420.0112, items A and B. The local
government unit may seek the advice of the technical evaluation panel as to the
wetland size and type.
   WETLANDS, EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY. Exceptional quality wetlands contain an
abundance of different plant species with dominance evenly spread among several
species. Such wetlands may support some rare or unusual plant species. Invasive
or exotic plant species are either absent or limited to small areas where some
disturbance has occurred. This higher level of plant species variety generally
provides high wildlife habitat value and may also support rare wildlife
species. The shorelines of exceptional quality wetlands are natural and
unaffected by erosion. These wetlands exhibit no evidence of significant man
induced water level fluctuation. Exceptional quality wetlands provide excellent
water quality protection, high aesthetic quality, and provide excellent
opportunities for educational and scientific activities within the community.
   WETLANDS, HIGH QUALITY. High quality wetlands are still generally in their
natural state and tend to show less evidence of adverse effects of surrounding
land uses. Exotic and invasive plant species may be present and species
dominance may not be evenly distributed among several species, however, a
minimum of 20 different species can be found within the basin. There tends to
be little evidence of water level fluctuation due to storms and their
shorelines are stable with little evidence of erosion. The combination of these
factors result in these wetlands being judged as providing a greater level of
water quality protection and significantly better wildlife habitat. They show
little if any evidence of human influences and their greater levels of species
variety, wildlife habitat and ecological stability results in higher aesthetic
quality. These characteristics also offer opportunities for educational or
scientific value to the community.
   WETLANDS, LOW QUALITY. Wetlands included in this category have been
substantially altered by agricultural or urban development that caused over
nutrification, soil erosion, sedimentation and water quality degradation. As a
result of these factors, these wetlands exhibit low levels of plant species and
a related reduction in the quality of wildlife habitat. These wetlands may also
tend to exhibit extreme water level fluctuations in response to storms and show
evidence of shoreline erosion. While these wetlands do provide for water
quality and serve an important role in protecting water quality downstream, the
combination of these characteristics cause these wetlands to provide low levels
of water quality protection and to have poor aesthetic quality. They often
exhibit evidence of significant human influences and they are deemed to be of
little educational or scientific value to the community.
   WETLANDS, MEDIUM QUALITY. Medium quality wetlands have a slightly higher
number of plant species present than low quality wetlands, often with small
pockets of indigenous species within larger areas dominated by invasive or
exotic species. Their relatively greater species variety results in slightly
better wildlife habitat. They exhibit evidence of relatively less fluctuation
in water level in response to storms and less evidence of shoreline erosion. As
a result of these characteristics, these wetlands provide somewhat better water
quality protection. They also exhibit relatively less evidence of human
influences and therefore, tend to be of a higher aesthetic quality. These
wetlands are still judged to be of limited educational or scientific value to
the community.
   WETLAND BUFFER. An area of non-disturbed ground cover abutting a wetland
left undisturbed to filter sediment, materials, and chemicals.
   WHOLESALE SALES. Establishments or places of business primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional, or
professional business users; or to other wholesalers. Wholesale establishment
does not include contractor's materials or office or retail sales of business
supplies/office equipment.
   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling alcoholic
beverages to retail dealers.
   WILDLIFE. All free living animals.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). A wind-driven machine that converts
wind energy into electrical power for the primary purpose of resale or off-site
use.
   WINE. The product made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of grapes,
including still wine, sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from condensed
grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than sound, ripe grapes,
imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, sherry and sake, in
each instance containing not less than one half of 1% nor more than 24% alcohol
by volume for nonindustrial use.
   WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICE. An establishment operated for the purpose of
temporary storage onsite of no more than nine wrecked or inoperable vehicles
for a period no longer than 90 days. If an establishment has ten or more
inoperable vehicles located on-site, stores inoperable vehicles for more than
90 days, stacks vehicles top to bottom, or portions of the vehicles are
dismantled or removed for sale, it shall be considered a junkyard.
   YARD. See §
153.010(B)(3)(a). YARD related definitions (e.g. front yard, corner yard, side
yard, etc) see section §
153.010(B)(3)(a)7.
(Ord. 780, passed 7-25-2022; Ord. 791, passed 11-14-2022; Ord. 797, passed 2-
13-2023; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 802, passed - -; Ord. 804, passed 8-
14-2023; Ord. 811, passed 10-9-2023; Ord. 812, passed 10-9-2023; Ord. 830,
passed 7-22-2024; Ord. 835, passed 11-25-2024)
APPLICATION REVIEWS AND PROCEDURES
§ 153.025 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to identify all decision-making bodies
responsible for the review of applications, the common review requirements for
all applications, and the specific requirements and review procedures for
various application types.
§ 153.026 SUMMARY OF DECISION-MAKING AND REVIEW BODIES.
   (A)   Summary table of decision-making and review bodies.
      (1)   Table 2-1 summarizes the general review and decision-making
responsibilities of the city entities that have roles in the procedures set
forth in this chapter. Other duties and responsibilities of the entities are
set forth in subsequent sections of this chapter or elsewhere within the
Monticello City Code. The city may require any and all review bodies to examine
specific applications as deemed appropriate by the Community Development
Department or City Council.
      (2)   The city may request other boards, commissions, government
agencies, and non-government agencies to review some applications as deemed
appropriate prior to any final ruling on such applications.
TABLE 2-1: SUMMARY OF THE ROLES OF DECISION-MAKING BODIES
H=Hearing (public hearing required)
A=Appeal
D=Decision (responsible for final decision)
R=Recommendation (responsible for review and a recommendation)
* = Will take action only if requested for a specific application or
circumstance
                  Community   IEDC & Park &     Planning   City    Board of
Procedure Section Development EDA    Recreation Commission Council Adjustment
                  Department  [1]    Commission                    and Appeals
TABLE 2-1: SUMMARY OF THE ROLES OF DECISION-MAKING BODIES
H=Hearing (public hearing required)
A=Appeal
D=Decision (responsible for final decision)
R=Recommendation (responsible for review and a recommendation)
* = Will take action only if requested for a specific application or
circumstance
                       Community   IEDC Park &                        Board of
Procedure      Section Development &    Recreation Planning   City    Adjustment
                       Department  EDA  Commission Commission Council and
                                   [1]                                Appeals
Comp. Plan     §
Amendment      153.028 R                *          H-R        D
               (A)
Zoning Map/    §
Text Amendment 153.028 R               *          H-R        D
               (B)
               §
Variance       153.028 R                                   A       H-D
               (C)
Conditional    §
Use Permit     153.028 R           *              H-R        D        
               (D)
Interim Use    §
Permit         153.028 R           *              H-R        D        
               (E)
Site Plan      §
Review         153.028 D                         *CCD Only  *       A
               (F)
Joint Concept                                      *CCD & PCD *CCD &
Review                                         Only       PCD      
                                                              Only
Administrative §
Appeal         153.028 R                                   A       D
               (H)
Building       §
Permits        153.028 D                                          A
               (I)
Certificates   §
of Occupancy   153.028 D                                          A
               (J)
               §
Sign Permit    153.028 D                                          A
               (K)
Temporary Use  §
Permit         153.028 D                                          A
               (L)
Home           §
Occupation     153.028 D/R                       H-CUP      D- CUP  A
Permit         (M)
               §
Grading Permit 153.028 D                                          A
               (N)
Driveway       §
Permit         153.028 D                                          A
               (O)
Planned Unit   §
Development    153.028 R                         H-R        D        
               (O)
Subdivisions   City    R               R          H-R        D       A
               Code
[1] Industrial & Economic Development Committee (IEDC) and the Economic
Development Authority (EDA)
 
   (B)   City Council. In addition to any other authority granted to the City
Council by the City Code (Chapter 30) or state law, the City Council shall have
the following powers and duties related to this chapter:
      (1)   To enact amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, the text of this
chapter, and Zoning Map.
      (2)   To hear, review, and make decisions on all Land Use Applications
submitted to the city.
   (C)   Planning Commission.
      (1)   Establishment, membership, rules and procedures. The establishment,
membership, rules and procedures for the Planning Commission are established in
§§
32.001 through
32.012.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to any other authority granted to
the Planning Commission by the City Code, the Planning Commission shall have
the following additional powers and duties related to this chapter:
         (a)   Comprehensive Plan Amendments, Zoning Map Amendments, and Zoning
Text Amendments.
            1.   To initiate amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, the text of
this chapter, the Official Zoning Map (rezoning of property), or other sections
of the Monticello City Code; and
            2.   To hear, review, and make recommendations to the City Council
on applications for amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, the text of this
chapter or zoning map amendments.
         (b)   Land use applications. To hear, review, and make recommendations
on the following Land Use Applications before the city:
            1.   Comprehensive Plan amendment;
            2.   Zoning Map amendment;
            3.   Zoning chapter text amendment;
            4.   Conditional use permit;
            5.   Interim use permit; and
            6.   Planned unit development.
         (c)   Other. To exercise such other powers, and perform such other
duties, as are reasonable or necessary as provided by law.
   (D)   Parks, Arts & Recreation Commission.
      (1)   Establishment, membership, rules and procedures. The establishment,
membership, rules and procedures for the Parks, Arts & Recreation Commission
are established in §§
32.045 through
32.054.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to any other authority granted to
the Parks, Arts & Recreation Commission by the City Code, the Parks, Arts &
Recreation Commission shall have the responsibility to review and make
recommendations on park needs generated by new development.
   (E)   Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
      (1)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals is hereby
established.
      (2)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall act as a Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
      (3)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
      (4)   Procedures. Proceedings of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals by
the Planning Commission shall be undertaken as a component of scheduled
Planning Commission meetings. It shall not be necessary for the Planning
Commission to adjourn and reconvene as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals to
undertake such proceedings.
      (5)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall have
the following powers and duties related to this chapter:
         (a)    To consider, hear, review and make decision on applications for
variances; and
         (b)   To hear appeals of administrative discretionary decisions made
by the Community Development Department or other administrative official in
carrying out or enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Industrial and Economic Development Committee.
      (1)   Establishment, membership, rules and procedures. The establishment,
membership, rules and procedures for the Industrial and Economic Development
Committee are established in §§
32.075 through
32.085.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to any other authority granted to
the Industrial and Economic Development Committee by the City Code, the
Industrial and Economic Development Committee shall have the responsibility to
review and make recommendations on commercial and industrial land use
applications when requested by the Community Development Department.
   (G)   Economic Development Authority (EDA).
      (1)   Establishment, membership, rules and procedures. The establishment,
membership, rules and procedures for the Economic Development Authority are
established in §
32.100.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to any other authority granted to
the Economic Development Authority by the City Code, the Economic Development
Authority shall have the responsibility to review and make recommendations on
commercial and industrial land use applications when requested by the Community
Development Department.
   (H)   Community Development Department.
      (1)   General authorization. The Community Development Department, under
the supervision of the City Administrator, shall administer the provisions of
this chapter as provided in this section.
      (2)   Powers and duties. In addition to the jurisdiction, authority, and
duties that may be conferred upon the Community Development Department by other
provisions of this chapter or the City Code, the Community Development
Department shall have the following jurisdiction, powers, and duties under this
chapter:
         (a)   Interpretations. Render interpretations of all provisions of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, interpretations of the text of
this chapter; interpretation of the zoning map, and interpretation of the
comprehensive plan.
         (b)   Enforcement. Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Administer ordinance. Review, approve, conditionally approve or
deny applications for building permits and other administratively reviewed
permits or applications as may be required by this chapter.
         (d)   Application tracking and recommendations. Review, monitor, and
provide recommendations on applications requiring approval by the City Council
or other governmental bodies as directed by the City Administrator.
         (e)   Provide expertise and technical assistance. Provide expertise
and technical assistance to the City Council and the city’s commissions,
boards, and other bodies.
         (f)   Maintain the zoning map. Update the city’s official zoning map
as it may be amended from time to time.
         (g)   Recommendations on procedures. Review and provide comments or
make recommendations to the appropriate decision-making and review body on the
various procedures, requirements or appeals established by this chapter.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.027 COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The requirements of §
153.027 shall apply to all applications subject to review under this chapter
unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   Authority to file applications.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, applications may be
initiated by:
         (a)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the
application;
         (b)   The owner's authorized agent; or
         (c)    The city, including the Community Development Department as
authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   When an authorized agent files an application under this chapter on
behalf of a property owner, the agent shall provide a signed authorization from
the fee title property owner stating that the property owner agrees to be bound
by all decisions, agreements, and related conditions agreed to by such agent.
      (3)   For all applications involving multiple owners, contract
purchasers, etc; all such persons shall sign the application.
   (C)   Application submission schedule. The schedule for the submission of
applications in relation to scheduled meetings of the decision-making bodies
shall be maintained by the Community Development Department and made available
to the public.
   (D)   Application contents.
      (1)   Organization and copies. The organization of applications and the
number of copies of required information to be submitted shall be determined by
the Community Development Department.
      (2)   General submittal requirements. All applications shall include:
         (a)   A completed City of Monticello application form;
         (b)   Verification of authority to file applications per the
requirements of §
153.027(B);
         (c)   Supporting title information establishing ownership interests in
the property (e.g. a title commitment and/or signature of fee title property
owner);
         (d)   All submittal requirements outlined in this chapter for the
specific application type;
         (e)   Electronic copies of all written narratives and plan sets
required by the Community Development Department as part of the specific
application;
         (f)   The city may require applicants to submit such technical studies
as may be necessary to enable the city to evaluate the application. Such
studies may include, but not be limited to, traffic studies, engineering
studies, environmental impact assessments, and economic impact reports. The
costs of such studies shall be borne by the applicant with the persons or firms
preparing the study approved by the city.
      (3)   Submission of fees. Applications shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the City of Monticello pursuant to the most recently adopted
City of Monticello Fee Schedule.
   (E)   Application acceptance.
      (1)   Complete application required. The review and consideration of an
application submitted under this section shall only occur if such application
includes all items that are required in support of the application and is
deemed complete by the Community Development Department (see M.S. § 15.99(3)
(a), as it may be amended from time to time).
      (2)   Waiver of application requirements. Except for the required
application form and the associated fee, the Community Development Department
may waive individual submittal requirements and deem an application complete
for review if it is determined that such information will serve no purpose
during the review process. However, it is the responsibility of the applicant
to supply all information required by this chapter, and a waiver issued by the
Community Development Department shall not eliminate the need to provide such
information at a later time if it is ultimately deemed necessary to adequately
review the application. During the review process, failure of an applicant to
supply information in a timely manner may result in denial of the application
due to the city's inability to comply with state mandated time deadlines.
   (F)   Simultaneous processing of applications. Whenever two or more forms of
review and approval are required under this chapter (e.g., a proposed rezoning
and subdivision application), the applications for those approvals may, at the
discretion of the Community Development Department, be processed
simultaneously, so long as all applicable requirements are satisfied for all
applications.
   (G)   Pre-application conferences.
      (1)   All prospective applicants are encouraged to speak with a member of
the Community Development Department prior to submitting an application in
order to review the proposal and to determine the specific materials to be
submitted with the future application.
      (2)   Discussions that occur during a pre-application conference are not
binding on the city and do not constitute official assurances, representations
or approvals by the city or its officials on any aspects of the plan or
application discussed.
   (H)   Fees.
      (1)   Determination of fees. Fees required to accompany applications
submitted under this chapter shall be in accordance with the approved fee
schedule adopted yearly by the City Council.
      (2)   Fees to be paid. No application shall be accepted until all
applicable application fees have been paid.
      (3)   Refund of application fee. Application fees are not
administratively refundable except when the Community Development Department
determines that an application was withdrawn prior to any consideration or
review of the application.
      (4)   Escrow. Application fees may also require payment of an escrow in
favor of the city. The required escrow amount shall be in accordance with the
approved fee schedule adopted yearly by the City Council.
      (5)   Staff and/or consultant fee. In order to defray the additional cost
of processing applications submitted under this chapter, all applicants shall
pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent exclusively in
producing materials for the applicants request and all materials for said
request.
         (a)   "Materials" shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings, etc., and all printing and reproduction of same.
         (b)   "Staff and/or consulting time" shall include any time spent in
either researching for or actual production of materials.
         (c)   The hourly rate for "staff and/or consulting time" shall be in
accordance with the approved fee schedule adopted yearly by the City Council.
   (I)   Public notification. Applications requiring public notification shall
be noticed in compliance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Content. Notices for public hearings, whether by publication or
mailed notice, shall contain at a minimum:
         (a)   A bold title referring to the content of the notice.
         (b)   Identification of the address or location of the property or
properties subject to the application.
         (c)   Date, time, and place of the public hearing.
         (d)   Nature and scope of the application.
         (e)   Where to view the application.
         (f)   Where the public may be heard.
         (g)   Provision for written comments. The notice will describe where
written comments will be received prior to the public hearing.
      (2)   Timing of the notice. Unless otherwise expressly provided or
required by law, all statutorily or code required notices shall be postmarked
or published at least ten days prior to the hearing or meeting at which the
application will be considered.
      (3)   Responsibilities.
         (a)   Published notice. When the provisions of this chapter require
that notice be published, the Community Development Department shall be
responsible for preparing the content of the notice and publishing the notice
in the city's official newspaper. The content and form of the published notice
shall be consistent with the requirements of §
153.027(I)(1) and state law.
         (b)   Written (mailed) notice. When the provisions of this chapter
require that written or mailed notice be provided, the Community Development
Department shall be responsible for preparing and mailing the written notice
per the requirements outlined in Table 2-2.
TABLE 2-2: WRITTEN NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
Application Type Written Notice Provided To
TABLE 2-2: WRITTEN NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
Application Type                     Written Notice Provided To
                                     - For amendments which involve five acres
                                     of land or less, written notice shall be
                                     provided to all property owners within 350
                                     feet
Comprehensive Plan Amendment         - For amendments which involve more than
                                     five acres of land, notice need only be
                                     published within the city's official
                                     newspaperTABLE 2-2: WRITTEN NOTIFICATION
                                     REQUIREMENTS
                                     - For amendments which involve changes in
                                     district boundaries affecting an area five
                                     acres of land or less, written (mailed)
                                     notice shall be provided to all property
Zoning Map Amendment                 owners within 350 feet
                                     - For amendments which involve changes in
                                     district boundaries affecting an area more
                                     than five acres of land, notice need only
                                     be published within the city's official
                                     newspaper
Zoning Text Amendment                Written (mailed) notice not required;
                                     published notice only required
Variance                             All property owners within 350 feet
Conditional Use Permit               All property owners within 350 feet
Interim Use Permit (new and renewal) All property owners within 350 feet
CUP/IUP Revocation                   Permittee/landowner only
Planned Unit Developments            All property owners within 350 feet
 
      (4)   Notice construction.
         (a)   The Community Development Department may use property tax
records to determine the names and addresses of affected property owners. A
copy of the notice and a list of the owners and addresses to which the notice
was sent must be attested to by the Community Development Department and must
be made a part of the records of the proceedings.
         (b)   Minor defects in any notice shall not impair the notice or
invalidate proceedings pursuant to the notice if a good faith attempt has been
made to comply with applicable notice requirements. Minor defects in notice are
errors that do not affect the substance of the notice (e.g., errors in a legal
description, typographical or grammatical errors, errors of actual acreage,
etc). Failure of a party to receive written notice shall not invalidate
subsequent action. In all cases, however, the notification requirements and
information specifying the time, date, and place of a hearing shall be strictly
construed.
         (c)   When the records of the city document the publication, mailing,
and posting of notices as required by this division, it shall be presumed that
notice of a public hearing was given as required by this division.
   (J)   Continuation of public hearings. A public hearing for which proper
notice was given may be continued during the course of such hearing to a later
date without again complying with the written and publication notice
requirements of this chapter, provided that the continuance date is announced
at the meeting.
   (K)   Withdrawal of an application. A request for withdrawal of an
application shall be submitted in writing with a signature to the Community
Development Department.
   (L)   Required action deadline. All applications for land use approvals
shall be approved or denied within timeframes required by applicable laws,
regulation and the provisions of this chapter in effect on the date the
application was submitted.
   (M)   Environmental review.
      (1)   No development project shall be approved prior to review by the
Community Development Department to determine the necessity for completion of
an Environmental Assessment worksheet (EAW) or Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS). Procedures for EAWs and EISs are set forth in the Minnesota
Environmental Quality Review Board (EQB) regulations for the Environmental
Review Program authorized by M.S. §§ 116D.04 and 116D.045, as the may be
amended from time to time, and specified in Minn. Rules Parts 4410.0200 to
44410.7800.
      (2)   Environmental reviews (EAWs and EISs) shall be conducted as early
as practical in the processing of a development project. No decision on
granting of a permit or other approval required may be issued until the EAW/EIS
process is completed.
   (N)   Reconsideration of land use approval applications. No application for
land use approval which has been denied by the City Council, in whole or in
part, shall be reconsidered for a period of six months from the date of City
Council action on the application, except where there is substantial new
evidence or proof of a change in conditions with respect to such application.
Before any such reconsideration, the city may require the submission of the
appropriate application fee and the application may be considered as a new
application.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 824, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 153.028 SPECIFIC REVIEW PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Comprehensive Plan amendments.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This section sets out the procedure to follow
when considering a change to the Comprehensive Plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1776.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for the amendment of the
Comprehensive Plan shall be initiated by one of the following:
         (a)   An owner of property or an authorized representative of an owner
pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications;
         (b)    Recommendation of the Planning Commission;
         (c)   Recommendation of the Community Development Department; or
         (d)   Action of the City Council.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications to amend the Comprehensive Plan shall be in
accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Procedures & Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to the common review requirements, applications for
Comprehensive Plan amendments shall also include the following:
            1.   The name of the applicant;
            2.   A narrative explaining the requested change and the reasons
why the Comprehensive Plan should be amended per the request;
            3.   The legal description of all real property proposed for change
(if applicable);
            4.   The existing and proposed land use and zoning designations for
all properties proposed to change (if applicable);
            5.   A map of the properties to be modified to a different land use
category, showing the addresses and land uses for adjacent properties (if
applicable);
            6.   The proposed text and/or maps to be added, amended, or deleted
from the Comprehensive Plan along with documentation as to the location of the
text changes in the Comprehensive Plan, if applicable.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Planning Commission. Before any amendment is adopted, the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing after proper notice
has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall adopt findings
and recommendations on the proposed amendment as soon as practical. The
Community Development Department may forward an application to the City Council
without a recommendation from the Planning Commission only if it is deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with state mandated deadlines for application
review.
         (b)   City Council. The City Council may hold a public hearing on the
amendment if they deem such necessary or it is deemed necessary by the
Community Development Department. After consideration of the Planning
Commission recommendation and/or hearing, if applicable, the City Council may
adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it deems advisable.
Approval of an amendment shall require the approval of two-thirds of all the
members of the City Council, except as may be exempted by state statute.
      (5)   Approval criteria. Recommendations and decisions on Comprehensive
Plan amendments shall be based on consideration of the following criteria:
         (a)   Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error or addresses
the need resulting from some changing condition, trend, or fact arising since
the adoption of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the guiding
principles of the Comprehensive Plan;
         (c)   The extent to which the proposed amendment addresses a
demonstrated community need;
         (d)   Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the public;
         (e)   The impacts on the natural and built environments, including
air, water, noise, stormwater management, wildlife habitat, water quality,
vegetation, drainage, streets, and other engineering design or environmental
factors;
         (f)   Whether the proposed amendment is compatible with existing and
proposed uses surrounding the subject property; whether the proposed design and
land uses are appropriate for the land; and whether the proposed amendment will
maintain or improve compatibility among uses and ensure efficient development
within the city;
         (g)   Whether the proposed amendment will result in a logical, orderly
and predictable development pattern; and
         (h)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the purpose of
this chapter.
   (B)   Zoning ordinance text and zoning map amendments.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This section sets out the procedures to be
followed in reviewing and considering a text change to this chapter or an
amendment to the zoning map with the exception of a map amendment to a planned
unit development, which shall be subject to the procedures in §
153.028(O), Planned Unit Development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1802.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for the amendment of the
text of this chapter or the zoning map shall be initiated by one of the
following:
         (a)   An owner of property or an authorized representative of an owner
pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications;
         (b)   Action of the Planning Commission; or
         (c)   Application by the Community Development Department; or
         (d)   Action of the City Council.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications to amend the text of this chapter or the zoning
map shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Procedures and Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to the common review requirements, applications for
changes to the text of this chapter or the Zoning Map shall also include the
following:
            1.   The name of the applicant;
            2.   A narrative explaining the requested modification and the
reasons why the changes are supported by the Comprehensive Plan;
            3.   The legal description of all real property proposed for
change, if applicable;
            4.   The existing and proposed land use and zoning designations for
all properties proposed for change, if applicable;
            5.   A map of the properties to be modified to a different zoning
designation, showing the addresses and zoning designations for the subject
properties and the adjacent properties, if applicable;
            6.   The location of the proposed text to be added, amended, or
deleted in this chapter, if applicable.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Planning Commission. Before any amendment is adopted, the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing after proper notice
has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall adopt findings
and recommendations on the proposed amendment as soon as practical. The
Community Development Department may forward an application to the City Council
without a recommendation from the Planning Commission only if it is deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with state mandated deadlines for application
review.
         (b)   City Council. The City Council may hold a public hearing on the
amendment if deemed necessary by the Community Development Department. After
consideration of the Planning Commission recommendation and/or hearing, if
applicable, the City Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in
such form as it deems advisable. Approval of an amendment shall require a
majority vote of all members of the City Council except for amendments which
change all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district from
residential to either commercial or industrial, which will require the approval
of two-thirds of all the members of the City Council.
      (5)   Approval criteria. Recommendations and decisions on zoning
amendments shall be based on consideration of the following criteria:
         (a)   Whether the proposed amendment corrects an error in the original
text or map; or
         (b)   Whether the proposed amendment addresses needs arising from a
changing condition, trend, or fact affecting the subject property and
surrounding area.
         (c)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with achieving the
goals and objectives outlined in the comprehensive plan.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. The variance process is intended to provide
limited relief from the strict requirements of this chapter in those cases
where strict application of a particular requirement will create practical
difficulties due to circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration. It is not intended that variances be granted to allow a use not
permitted by the underlying zoning district, nor to merely remove
inconveniences or financial burdens that the requirements of this chapter may
impose on property owners in general. Variances are intended to address
extraordinary, exceptional, or unique situations that were not caused by the
applicant’s act or omission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1800.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Variances shall be initiated by an owner
of property or an authorized representative of an owner pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a variance shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Procedures and Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to the common review requirements, applications for
a variance shall also include the following:
            1.   A written narrative demonstrating that the criteria for a
variance as set out in §
153.028(C)(4)(a) have been met.
            2.    A site plan of the property showing all information necessary
to allow the city to determine conformance with all zoning provisions, and to
calculate the specific variance being requested. Information shall include but
not be limited to:
               a.   Property and structure dimensions;
               b.   Setback dimensions/measurements;
               c.   Parking and access locations and dimensions;
            3.    If deemed necessary by the Community Development Department,
a certificate of survey may be required to be submitted with the application in
addition to a site plan. The certificate of survey must detail the information
listed in §
153.028(C)(3)(b)2. above.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Variance criteria. Approval of a variance may only be made upon
a determination that practical difficulties will result based on all of the
following criteria (see M.S. § 462.357, subd. 6, clause 2, as it may be amended
from time to time):
            1.   The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if
the provisions of this chapter are strictly applied.
            2.   The circumstances rendering the property unusable are unique
to the property.
            3.   The circumstances rendering the property unusable were not
created by the owner thereof.
            4.   A variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
            5.   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a
sufficient basis for a Variance if reasonable use for the property exists under
the terms of the regulation.
         (b)   Board of Adjustment and Appeals. Before any variance is
approved, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall hold at least one public
hearing after proper notice has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall
consider the request(s) against the variance review criteria outlined in §
153.028(C)(4)(a) and take action on the request(s). In approving a variance,
the Board of Adjustment and Appeals may impose conditions on the approval as
are deemed appropriate to ensure compliance with the approval and to protect
adjacent properties. Denial of any request shall be accompanied by findings of
fact at to how the request did not meet one or more of the review criteria.
         (c)   Appeal of variance decision. Decisions of the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals are final unless the applicant or an affected party,
including any member of the City Council, files a written appeal outlining the
basis for the appeal within ten business days of the decision. Variance appeals
shall be reviewed by the City Council as outlined in §
153.028(H)(3)(c) subject to the review criteria in §
153.028(H)(4).
      (5)   Effect of a variance.
         (a)   The issuance of a variance shall authorize only the particular
variation that is approved by either the Board of Adjustment and Appeals or
City Council.
         (b)   A variance, including any conditions, shall run with the land
and shall not be affected by a change in ownership.
      (6)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the variance
shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other approvals
required by this chapter or any other applicable chapters or regulations. The
granting of a variance does not constitute, imply, or guarantee the granting of
any other such required approval (i.e.: a building permit).
      (7)   Time limit.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specified in the variance, if a building permit
has not been secured within one year of the date of the variance approval, the
variance shall become invalid. Permitted timeframes do not change with
successive owners.
         (b)   Upon written request, one extension of one year may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (8)   Amendment. A variance may be amended, extended, or modified only in
accordance with the procedures and standards established for originally
securing the variance. A request for a change in the conditions of approval of
a variance shall be considered an amendment and subject to the full review
procedure set forth in this division. An additional application fee may be
required before consideration of the amendment request.
   (D)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. The conditional use permit process is intended
to provide the city with an opportunity to review a proposed use in order to
establish reasonable conditions necessary to ensure compatibility between the
proposed location and use and surrounding properties. Approval of a conditional
use at a location within a zoning classification does not mean the same
conditional use can be conducted on any other parcel with the same specific
zoning classification. Every application for a CUP will be individually
reviewed on its own merits, and the facts surrounding the subject property will
determine the appropriateness of the proposed use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1780.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for a conditional use permit
shall be initiated by an owner of property or an authorized representative of
an owner pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a conditional use permit shall be in
accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for a
conditional use permit shall also include the following:
            1.   A written narrative which includes:
               a.   A description of the proposed conditional use, how it will
function on the property, hours of operation (if applicable), and any other
information necessary to fully describe the request; and
               b.   An explanation of how the proposed conditional use will
meet each of the criteria set forth in §
153.028(D)(4)(a), as well as any additional criteria that may apply for the
specific use as listed in §§
153.090 through
153.093.
            2.   A location map showing the general location of the proposed
use within the community and the principal land uses surrounding the parcel on
which the conditional use is proposed;
            3.   Development plans for the proposed use showing all information
deemed necessary by the Community Development Department to ensure that the
city can determine whether the proposed use will conform to all City Code
standards. Such information may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
               a.   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and existing
topography;
               b.    Location and building setbacks per this chapter of all
existing and proposed buildings and the size of each (including square
footage);
               c.    Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-
street loading areas, and sidewalks, including dimension of each;
               d.   Natural features such as woodlands, wetlands, shorelines,
etc;
               e.   Landscaping and screening plans, including species and size
of trees and shrubs proposed;
               f.   Proposed finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to
drain and dispose of all surface water accumulated;
               g.   Type of business or activity and proposed number of
employees;
               h.   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
               i.    Proposed outdoor storage spaces, including dimensions and
detail of all intended storage types (if applicable);
               j.   Signage plan.
            4.    If deemed necessary by the Community Development Department,
a certificate of survey may be required to be submitted with the application in
addition to or in lieu of a site plan. The certificate of survey shall detail
the following information:
               a.   All existing and proposed structures;
               b.   Signed by a registered land surveyor;
               c.   Current (within last six months);
               d.   Topographic survey and contours of all surface features
including drainage ways, wetlands, etc.;
               e.   Public utilities including pipe size, material type,
depths;
               f.   Private utilities;
               g.   Legal description; and
               h.   Easements of record.
            5.    Color profile elevation drawings of all sides of new
structures to illustrate the proposed visual appearance of new construction.
Any landscaping shown on elevations must be shown as it appears in size and
height at the time of planting. The elevations shall indicate the visual
location and size of all exterior utility and mechanical systems, including
HVAC, meters, and powerlines.
            6.   Any other information that may be reasonably required by the
city to evaluate the application.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Conditional use permit criteria. Approval of a conditional use
permit application requires that the city find that conditions can be
established to ensure that all of the following criteria will always be met:
            1.   The conditional use will not substantially diminish or impair
property values within the immediate vicinity of the subject property;
            2.   The conditional use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety, morals, or welfare of persons residing or working near the use;
            3.   The conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly
development of surrounding property for permitted uses predominant in the area;
            4.   The conditional use will not pose an undue burden on public
utilities or roads, and adequate sanitary facilities are provided;
            5.   The conditional use can provide adequate parking and loading
spaces, and all storage on the site can be done in conformance with city code
requirements;
            6.   The conditional use will not result in any nuisance including
but not limited to odor, noise, or sight pollution;
            7.   The conditional use will not unnecessarily impact natural
features such as woodlands, wetlands, and shorelines; and all erosion will be
properly controlled;
            8.   The conditional use will adhere to any applicable additional
criteria outlined in §§
153.090 through
153.093 for the proposed use.
         (b)   Planning Commission. Before any conditional use permit is
considered, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
after proper notice has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing and subsequent discussion on the merits of
the proposal, the Planning Commission shall adopt findings and recommendations
on the general conditional use permit review criteria outlined in §
153.028(D)(4)(a) and any specific criteria outlined for the specific use in §§
153.090 through
153.093. Recommendations for approval may include such conditions as are deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with each of the conditional use permit review
criteria. Denial recommendations shall be supported by findings of fact as to
why the permit request was denied. The Community Development Department may
forward an application to the City Council without a recommendation from the
Planning Commission only if it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with
state mandated deadlines for application review.
         (c)   Industrial and Economic Development Committee. Conditional use
permits in commercial or industrial areas may, at the discretion of the
Community Development Department, be placed before the Industrial and Economic
Development Committee for review and recommendation.
         (d)   City Council. Upon receiving the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall consider the request against the conditional
use permit review criteria outlined in §
153.028(D)(4)(a) and take action on the request(s). In approving a conditional
use permit, the City Council may impose conditions on the approval as are
deemed appropriate to ensure compliance with each of the conditional use permit
review criteria. Denial of any request shall be accompanied by findings of fact
as to why the requested permit can not be approved.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions. In approving a CUP, the city may adopt and
impose such reasonable conditions and requirements as it deems necessary and
appropriate to ensure continued compliance with the conditional use permit
review criteria.
      (6)   Effect of a conditional use permit approval.
         (a)   The issuance of a conditional use permit shall authorize only
the improvements approved by the City Council.
         (b)   A conditional use permit, including any conditions, shall run
with the land and shall not be affected by a change in ownership.
      (7)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by the conditional
use permit shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other
approvals required by this chapter or any other applicable ordinances or
regulations. The granting of a conditional use permit does not constitute,
imply, or guarantee the granting of any other such required approval (i.e. a
building permit).
      (8)   Time limit.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specified in the conditional use permit, the
operation of the use and/or issuance of building permits for permitted
structures shall begin within one year of the date of the conditional use
permit approval. Failure to do so will invalidate the conditional use permit.
Permitted timeframes do not change with successive owners.
         (b)   If the operation of the use and/or issuance of building permits
has not commenced within one year of the date of approval, the applicant may
petition for an extension of time in which to commence the work that has been
granted by the conditional use permit. Such extension shall be requested in
writing and filed with the Community Development Department at least 30 days
before the expiration of the one-year period. The request for extension shall
state facts supporting good cause for extension of the conditional use permit.
Such petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
         (c)   If a use operating pursuant to an approved conditional use
permit is discontinued for a period of at least one year, any further use of
the property shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. A discontinued
conditional use shall not begin operations again without first obtaining
approval of a new conditional use permit.
      (9)   Revocation. In the event that any of the conditions set forth in
the permit are violated, the City Council shall have the authority to revoke
the conditional use permit. Before the revocation is considered, the City
Council shall hold at least one public hearing after proper written notice has
been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing and subsequent discussion, the City Council
may revoke the CUP by adopting findings of fact showing there has not been
substantial compliance with the required conditions.
      (10)   Amendments. A conditional use permit may be amended or modified
only in accordance with the procedures and standards established when
originally securing the conditional use permit. A request for a change in the
conditions of approval of a conditional use permit shall be considered an
amendment and subject to the full review procedure set forth in this division.
An additional application fee may be required before the consideration of the
amendment request.
   (E)   Interim use permits.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses
is:
         (a)   To allow a use for a brief period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
         (b)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council but that, with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
         (c)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range
change to an area and which is in compliance with the comprehensive plan
provided that said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding
uses and is in keeping with the architectural character and design standards of
existing uses and development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1786.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for an interim use permit
shall be initiated by an owner of property or an authorized representative of
an owner pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for an interim use permit shall be in
accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for an
interim use permit shall also include the following:
            1.   A letter from the applicant explaining the proposal and
stating the date or event that will terminate the use;
            2.   A location map showing the general location of the proposed
use within the community and the principal land uses surrounding the parcel on
which the interim use is proposed;
            3.   Development plans for the proposed use showing all information
deemed necessary by the Community Development Department to ensure that the
city can determine whether the proposed use will conform to all City Code
standards. Such information may include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
               a.   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and existing
topography;
               b.    Location and buildings setbacks per this chapter of all
buildings and the size of each, including square footage;
               c.   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-
street loading areas, and sidewalks including dimensions of each;
               d.   Natural features such as woodlands, wetlands, shorelines,
etc;
               e.   Landscaping and screening plans, including species and size
of trees and shrubs proposed;
               f.   Proposed finished grading and drainage plan sufficient to
drain and dispose of all surface water accumulated;
               g.   Type of business or activity and proposed number of
employees;
               h.   Proposed floor plan and elevations of any building with use
indicated;
               i.    Proposed outdoor storage spaces, including dimensions and
detail of all intended storage types (if applicable);
               j.   Signage plan.
            4.    If deemed necessary by the Community Development Department,
a certificate of survey may be required to be submitted with the application in
addition to or in lieu of a site plan.
            5.   A signed consent agreement, provided by the City of
Monticello, agreeing:
               a.   That the applicant, owner, operator, tenant and/or user has
no entitlement to future re-approval of the interim use permit;
               b.   That the interim use will not impose additional costs on
the public if it is necessary for the public to fully or partially take the
property in the future; and
               c.   That the applicant, owner, operator, tenant and/or user
will abide by conditions of approval that the City Council attaches to the
interim use permit.
            6.   Any other information that may be reasonably required by the
city to evaluate the application.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Interim use permit criteria. Approval of an interim use permit
application requires that the city find that conditions can be established to
ensure all of the following criteria will always be met:
            1.   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district and conforms to standard zoning regulations.
            2.   The use will not adversely impact nearby properties through
nuisance, noise, traffic, dust, odor, or unsightliness and will not otherwise
adversely impact the health, safety, and welfare of the community.
            3.   The use will not adversely impact implementation of the
comprehensive plan.
            4.   The date, event, or change in circumstances that will
terminate the use is identified with certainty.
            5.   The applicant has signed a consent agreement stating that the
applicant, owner, operator, tenant and/or user has no entitlement to future re-
approval of the interim use permit as well as agreeing that the interim use
will not impose additional costs on the public if it is necessary for the
public to fully or partially take the property in the future.
            6.   The applicant agrees to all conditions that the City Council
deems appropriate to allow the use including the requirement of appropriate
financial surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and any interim
structures upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
            7.   There are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments,
interest, or city utility fees due upon the subject parcel.
            8.   The interim use will adhere to any applicable additional
criteria outlined in §§
153.090 through
153.093 for the proposed use.
         (b)   Planning Commission. Before any interim use permit is
considered, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
after proper notice has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing and subsequent discussion on the merits of
the proposal, the Planning Commission shall adopt findings and recommendations
on the general interim use permit review criteria outlined in §
153.028(E)(4)(a) and any specific criteria outlined for the specific use in §§
153.090 through
153.093. Recommendations for approval may include such conditions as are deemed
necessary to ensure compliance with each of the interim use permit review
criteria. Denial recommendations shall be supported by findings of fact as to
why the permit request was denied. The Community Development Department may
forward an application to the City Council without a recommendation from the
Planning Commission only if it is deemed necessary to ensure compliance with
state mandated deadlines for application review.
         (c)   Industrial and Economic Development Committee. Interim use
permits in commercial or industrial areas may, at the discretion of the
Community Development Department, be placed before the Industrial and Economic
Development Committee for review and recommendation.
         (d)   City Council. Upon receiving the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall consider the request against the interim use
permit review criteria outlined in §
153.028(E)(4)(a) and take action on the request(s). In approving an interim use
permit, the City Council may impose conditions on the approval as are deemed
appropriate to ensure compliance with each of the interim use permit review
criteria. Denial of any request shall be accompanied by findings of fact at to
how the request did not meet one or more of the review criteria.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions. In approving an interim use permit, the city
may adopt and impose such reasonable conditions and requirements as it deems
necessary and appropriate to ensure continued compliance with the interim use
permit review criteria.
      (6)   Effect of an interim use permit approval.
         (a)   The issuance of an interim use permit shall authorize only the
improvements and use approved by the City Council as an interim use over the
specified timeframe.
         (b)   An interim use permit, including any conditions, shall run with
the land and shall not be affected by a change in ownership.
      (7)   Termination. An interim use shall be terminated and removed for any
of the following reasons, whichever occurs first:
         (a)   The date, event or circumstances stated in the permit.
         (b)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued.
         (c)   Upon change in the city’s zoning regulations which renders the
use nonconforming.
         (d)   The redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is
located to a permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective
zoning district.
      (8)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke an interim use permit upon
finding that any of the conditions set forth in the permit are violated. Before
the revocation is considered, the City Council shall hold at least one public
hearing after proper written notice has been issued in accordance with §
153.027(I). Following the hearing and subsequent discussion, the City Council
may revoke the IUP by adopting findings of fact showing there has not been
substantial compliance with the required conditions.
      (9)   Amendments. All requested amendments to an existing interim use
permit shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (10)   Renewal. All renewals of an existing interim use permit shall be
processed in the same manner as a new application.
   (F)   Site plan submittals.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. The City Council declares it necessary and
appropriate to require site plan review of development in certain zoning
districts to preserve and promote attractive, well-planned, stable urban
conditions, and to review compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
Site plan approval by the Community Development Department must be obtained
before a building permit is issued in order to ensure the following:
         (a)   A proposed project’s compatibility with the area environment and
with other existing land uses and buildings in the surrounding area.
         (b)   The quantity, quality, utility, size, and type of a proposed
project’s required open space and proposed landscaping improvements.
         (c)   The ability of a proposed project’s traffic circulation system
to provide for the convenient and safe internal and external movement of
vehicles and pedestrians.
         (d)   The quantity, quality, utility, size, and type of a proposed
project’s required community facilities.
         (e)   The location and adequacy of a proposed project’s provision for
drainage and utilities.
         (f)   Security, fire protection, and life/safety issues.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1794.png]
 
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   Unless exempted pursuant to §
153.028(F)(3) below, site plan review shall be required for all residential and
nonresidential development (including changes to required parking areas,
proposed changes to outside commercial sales or storage areas, etc) prior to
the issuance of a building permit or other approval.
         (b)   The Community Development Department is authorized to review and
approve, approve with conditions, or deny Site Plan reviews in accordance with
the procedures and standards of this section.
         (c)   Site plan review shall be required for all new development
projects in the CCD, Central Community District, which substantively change the
area and/or bulk of any building or use. Such site plan review shall be
conducted by the Planning Commission, but shall not be formal Public Hearing.
The Planning Commission may choose, at its sole option, to provide for and
consider public comment.
         (d)   In lieu of division (F)(2)(c) of this section, an applicant may
choose to request a Concept Review joint meeting between the Planning
Commission and City Council, in accordance with the process identified in §
153.028(O)(9)(a).
      (3)   Exemptions. The following may be exempted from site plan review:
         (a)   Detached residential uses (i.e. single-family homes).
         (b)   Residential accessory buildings or other similar structures as
determined by the Community Development Department.
         (c)   The internal construction or change in floor area of a
development that does not increase gross floor area, increase the intensity of
use, or affect parking requirements on a site that meets all development and
site design standards of this chapter.
         (d)   Temporary uses.
         (e)   Any building exempted by state statute.
         (f)   Additions to existing buildings, structures or uses, if, in the
opinion of the Community Development Department, such addition does not
substantially affect the proposed or current development of adjacent or nearby
properties.
      (4)   Initiation. An application for site plan review may be initiated by
the property owner or other person with authority to file an application
pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (5)   Submittal.
         (a)   All submittals for site plan review shall be in accordance with
§
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to the common application requirements of §
153.028(F)(5)(a) above, submittals for site plan review shall also include at
least the following to be considered complete (except as exempted by the
Community Development Department). All documents shall be prepared by a
registered land surveyor, registered professional engineer, or other qualified
professional as directed by the Community Development Department.
            1.   Name of the project;
            2.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant, engineer,
architect, surveyor and owner of record;
            3.   Legal description;
            4.   Date proposed, north arrow, engineering scale, number sheets
and name drawer;
            5.   Vicinity map showing relationship of the development to
surrounding streets, rights-of-way and the like;
            6.   Description of intended use of site, buildings, structures,
including type of occupancy and occupancy load;
            7.   Tabulation box, indicating the following:
               a.   Size of parcel in acres and square feet;
               b.   Gross floor area of each building;
               c.   Percent of site covered by impervious surface;
               d.   Projected number of employees;
               e.   Number of seats if intended use is a restaurant or place of
assembly;
               f.   Number of parking spaces required;
               g.   Number of parking spaces provided, including handicapped;
               h.   Dimension of parking spaces and aisles;
               i.   Existing zoning and land use designations; and
               j.   Area of public open space (if applicable).
            8.   Property line dimensions, location of all existing and
proposed structures with distance from boundaries, distance between structures,
building dimensions and floor elevations within proposed site plan boundary
shown and to a distance of 150 feet beyond;
            9.   Topographic data within the property to be subdivided and 200
feet beyond the property boundary, showing contours as follows:
               a.   All areas of the proposed area with a slope greater than
25% must be clearly indicated:
               b.   Two-foot contours where slope is 7% or less;
               c.   Two-foot contours where slope is from 7% to 15%; and
               d.   Ten-foot intervals where slope is greater than 15%.
            10.   Grading, drainage and erosion control plan prepared by a
registered professional engineer, providing all information outlined in §
153.069(D).
            11.   Utility plans prepared by a registered professional engineer
consisting of the following:
               a.   Location, size and grades of all existing sanitary sewer,
water main, hydrants and storm sewer on site or adjacent to for proposed
connection;
               b.   Location of all existing gas mains, electric and phone
cables, light poles, power boxes and the like;
               c.   Location, size, grades and materials for all proposed
public sanitary sewer, water main, hydrants and storm sewer;
               d.   Supplemental calculations for trunk sanitary sewer and
water main, if required by the Community Development Department;
               e.   Supplemental storm sewer computation sheet verifying
capacities and volumes for all pipe segments, if required by the Community
Development Department; and
               f.   Existing and proposed drainage and utility easements.
            12.   Street plans prepared by a registered professional engineer
showing the following:
               a.   All existing and proposed points of ingress/egress;
               b.   Widths at property lines;
               c.   Turning radii abutting right-of-way;
               d.   Center line, paving width, existing and proposed median and
curb cuts and intersection of streets and driveways; and
               e.   Access alignment and grades.
            13.   Vehicular circulation system showing location and dimension
for all driveways, parking spaces, parking lot aisles, service roads, loading
areas, fire lanes, emergency access, if necessary, public and private streets,
alleys, sidewalks, bike paths, direction of traffic flow and traffic control
devices;
            14.   Landscape plan prepared by a qualified professional providing
all information outlined in §
153.060(D);
            15.   Location, access and screening detail of large trash handling
and recycling collection areas in compliance with the requirements of §
153.092(D)(34);
            16.    Building elevations (colored renderings) for all sides of
the proposed buildings which detail the materials being used. Any landscaping
shown on elevations must be shown as it appears in size and height at the time
of planting. The elevations shall indicate the visual location and size of all
exterior utility and mechanical systems, including HVAC, meters, and
powerlines;
            17.   Location and screening detail of roof top equipment;
            18.   Location and detail of signage providing all pertinent
information outlined in §
153.028(K)(3)(b) as determined by the Community Development Department;
            19.   Lighting location, style and mounting and light distribution
plan;
            20.   Project narrative; and
            21.    Any other information that may be reasonably required by the
city to evaluate the application including but not limited to traffic analysis,
floor plans, building elevations, rendered drawings, and materials samples.
      (6)   Review.
         (a)   Site plan review criteria. Recommendations and decisions on a
site plan shall be based on consideration of the following criteria:
            1.   Whether the proposed development is consistent with all the
requirements of this chapter and the City Code;
            2.   Whether the proposed development is in compliance with the
applicable zoning district and overlay districts;
            3.   Whether the proposed development is in compliance with other
city approved planning documents; and
            4.   Whether the proposed development meets all the requirements or
conditions of any applicable development approvals.
         (b)   Site plan review process.
            1.   Upon receiving a complete submittal for site plan review, the
Community Development Department shall review the plans to determine their
conformance to all ordinance requirements. The Community Development Department
may be assisted in conducting site plan reviews by representatives from other
city departments or divisions.
            2.   Site plan submittals determined to conform with the approval
criteria outlined in §
153.028(F)(6)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A notice of site plan approval shall be
provided to the submitter that includes all conditions, comments, and
recommendations.
            3.   Site plans not conforming with the approval criteria outlined
in §
153.028(F)(6)(a) shall be revised by the submitter to meet the requirements of
the city ordinance prior to approval of any other permit.
            4.   The approval of a site plan by the Community Development
Department does not in any way guarantee future approval of other applications
that may be required by the regulations of the city (e.g. a building permit,
certificate of occupancy, subdivision approval, conditional use approval, etc).
      (7)   Subsequent development. Development authorized by a site plan
approval shall not be carried out until the applicant has secured all other
approvals required by this chapter or any other applicable regulations. Such
permits and approvals shall only be granted once all conditions of the site
plan review and all relevant portions of this chapter are met.
      (8)   Time limit.
         (a)    Unless otherwise specified in the site plan approval, an
application for a building permit shall be applied for within one year of the
date of the site plan approval, otherwise the site plan shall become invalid.
Permitted timeframes do not change with successive owners.
         (b)    Upon written request, one extension of one year may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (9)   Amendments of an approved site plan.
         (a)   Requested amendments that involve one of the following shall be
reviewed as a new site plan submittal:
            1.   The density of the development is to be increased;
            2.   The gross square footage of nonresidential buildings is to be
increased or the number of stories is to be increased;
            3.   Approved landscaping elements are to be modified;
            4.   Required open space is to be modified;
            5.   Drainage, streets, or other engineering design changes will
materially alter items approved in the site plan; and/or
            6.   Major changes are proposed that could potentially create an
adverse impact on stormwater quality, stormwater quantity management, or other
stormwater management ordinance requirements.
         (b)   Requested site plan amendments that do not fall into one of the
categories outlined in §
153.028(F)(10) above may be approved by the Community Development Department if
it is determined that the requested change will NOT:
            1.   Substantially affect the terms of the original approval; and
            2.   Result in significant adverse impacts on the surrounding
properties or the city at-large.
         (c)   If, in the opinion of the Community Development Department, a
proposed change will substantially affect the terms of the original approval or
would result in significant adverse impacts on the surrounding properties or
the city at-large, then a re-submittal of a new site plan may be required
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
      (10)   Appeal. The applicant for a site plan review may appeal the
decision of the Community Development Department to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals per §
153.028(G).
   (G)   Appeal of administrative decisions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1778.png]
 
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This division sets out the procedure to follow
when a person claims to have been aggrieved or affected by an administrative
decision made under this chapter.
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Appeals shall be initiated by the person
aggrieved or affected by any order, decision, determination, or interpretation
made by the Community Development Department or other administrative official
of the city charged with the administration or enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   Submission of appeal (application).
            1.   An appeal pursuant to this division shall be initiated by
filing a written appeal of the administrative decision or determination within
ten business days of the date of the order, decision, determination, or
interpretation with the Community Development Department or other
administrative official from whom the appeal is taken.
            2.   All applications for an appeal shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   Review by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
            1.   Upon receiving the written appeal of the administrative
decision or determination, the Community Development Department shall place the
matter on the next available agenda of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
            2.   A report prepared by the Community Development Department
which is accompanied by all relevant papers, documents, and other materials
relating to the order, decision, determination, or interpretation shall be
provided to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals prior to the meeting. These
materials shall constitute the record of the appeal.
            3.   Following review of the appeal, the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals shall adopt findings of fact and make a decision on the appeal.
            4.   Decisions of the Board of Adjustment and Appeals are final
unless an affected party files a second written appeal outlining the basis for
the appeal within five business days of the decision.
         (c)   Review by the City Council.
            1.   Upon receiving a second written appeal of the decision
rendered by the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, the Community Development
Department shall place the matter on the next available agenda of the City
Council scheduled at least seven days after the date of the appeal.
            2.   Materials constituting the record of appeal from the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals review shall be provided to the City Council for
examination prior to the meeting.
            3.   Following review of the appeal, the City Council shall review
and decide on the appeal in accordance with this chapter and state law.
      (4)   Review criteria. An order, decision, determination, or
interpretation shall not be reversed or modified unless there is competent,
material, and substantial evidence in the record that the order, decision,
determination, or interpretation fails to comply with either the procedural,
substantive requirements, or intent of this chapter or state law.
      (5)   Conditions. The City Council may impose conditions upon their
decision to ensure that the requirements and purposes of this chapter are
followed.
   (H)   Building permits.
      (1)   Purpose. This section establishes when obtaining a building permit
is required, how it will be reviewed, what surveys may be required to track
construction, and how unauthorized work will be handled.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1790.png]
 
      (2)   In general.
         (a)   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect, alter, construct,
enlarge, expand, repair, move, improve, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy,
or maintain any building, structure, or portion thereof, within the City of
Monticello until proper permits have been issued by the Community Development
Department.
         (b)   No building permit or other permit pertaining to the use of land
or buildings shall be issued unless such building is designed and arranged to
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Exemptions. Building permits shall not be required for those
structures and improvements specifically exempted by the adopted building code
as may be amended (see Minn. Rule chapter 1300 "Administration of the State
Building Code").
      (4)   Surveys required.
         (a)   Every application for building permit shall be accompanied by a
certified site survey (excluding interior remodels, re-roofs, re-siding and
general maintenance) at a scale and in quantities deemed necessary by the
Community Development Department. Because the survey will be used to determine
an application’s conformance with City Code, it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to ensure information provided on the survey corresponds to
submitted building plans (including existing and proposed topography). An
issued building permit shall authorize only land alterations identified on the
survey. Surveys shall include all information as deemed necessary by the
Community Development Department to provide for the enforcement of this
chapter.
         (b)   All new structures shall provide to the city an as-built
foundation survey upon completion of work to the foundation unless exempted by
the Community Development Department. The as-built foundation survey shall
certify both the final setbacks of the structure being built, and the
elevations at which the new structure exists. Failure to provide a foundation
survey upon foundation completion will result in the builder continuing with
construction at his/her own risk. Expenditures incurred beyond the construction
of the foundation will not be considered in determining the actions required to
bring the building back into conformance if not built to approved plans. The
foundation survey shall be on-site before the framing inspection is done and
approved by the building official.
         (c)   All new structures shall provide to the city an as-built grading
survey upon completion of work unless exempted by the Community Development
Department. The as-built grading survey shall certify the final topography of
the site and verify the drainage patterns existing upon completion of work. The
city reserves the right to withhold the certificate of occupancy for a dwelling
until final grading addresses all problems that may be detrimental to adjacent
properties.
      (5)   Review. The Community Development Department shall review all
building permit applications for conformance to ordinance requirements.
      (6)   Unauthorized work. Work done without the authorization of a permit
and/or found to be out of conformance with approved plans shall be immediately
halted and subject to the remedies and penalties described in §
153.999. Structures being built out of conformance shall be brought into
conformance.
   (I)   Certificates of occupancy.
      (1)   Purpose. This section establishes the requirement for city approval
prior to the use or occupation of new buildings or structures, or prior to a
change in use within an existing structure. Issuance of a certificate of
occupancy signifies that the building or structure complies with all code
requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1788.png]
 
      (2)   Required.
         (a)   No building or structure hereafter erected or moved, or that
portion of an existing structure or building erected or moved, shall be
occupied or used in whole or in part for any purpose whatsoever until a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Community Development
Department stating that the building or structure complies with all provisions
of this chapter.
         (b)   No change in use of an existing building or structure shall
occur until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Community
Development Department stating that the building or structure complies with all
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Application. A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for
coincident with an application for a building permit or prior to a proposed
change in use.
      (4)   Issuance. A certificate of occupancy will be issued within ten days
after the Community Development Department shall have completed a final
inspection and found the building or structure conforming to all code
requirements.
   (J)   Sign permits.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This division sets out the procedures to follow
when requesting a sign permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1796.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for a sign permit shall be
initiated by application of the property owner or other person having authority
to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a sign permit shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for a
sign permit shall also include at least the following to be considered complete
(except as exempted by the Community Development Department):
            1.   Names and addresses of the applicant, owners of the sign and
lot.
            2.   The address(es) at which the sign(s) are to be erected.
            3.   The lot, block and addition at which the signs are to be
erected and the street on which they are to front.
            4.   Type and size of sign (e.g., wall sign, pylon sign).
            5.   A site plan (or survey if required by the Community
Development Department) which is to scale showing the location of lot lines,
building structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs and any other
physical features.
            6.   Plans, location and specifications and method of construction
and attachment to the buildings or placement method on the ground.
            7.   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing that the
structure is designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the
amount required by this and all other laws and ordinances of the city, if
required.
            8.   Written consent of the owner or lessee of any site on which
the sign is to be erected.
            9.   Any electrical permit required and issued for the sign.
            10.   A detailed description of any electronic or electrical
components that are proposed to be added to the sign.
            11.    If the proposed sign is a sandwich board sign to be located
in the CCD District within the public right-of-way, the owner of the sign shall
provide a certificate of general liability insurance with minimum coverage of
$300,000 naming the city as an additional insured for the sign to be located
upon the public right-of-way within the CCD, Central Community District.
            12.   If illuminated, a light distribution plan or other
information demonstrating compliance with the lighting requirements of this
chapter.
            13.   Other information to demonstrate compliance with this and all
other ordinances of the city.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Sign review criteria. Approval of a sign permit application
shall be based on the following criteria:
            1.   Whether the proposed sign is consistent with all the
requirements of this chapter and any other City Code requirements;
            2.   Whether the proposed sign is in compliance with the applicable
zoning district and overlay district regulations; and
            3.   Whether the proposed sign meets all the requirements or
conditions of any applicable development approvals or agreements.
         (b)   Sign review process.
            1.   The Community Development Department will review all sign
permit requests.
            2.   Applications determined to conform with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(K)(4)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A copy of the approved permit shall be
provided to the applicant which includes all conditions and comments.
            3.   Applications not conforming with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(K)(4)(a) shall be denied by the Community Development Department. A
notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant which includes all
identified reasons for denial.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions. In approving a sign permit, the Community
Development Department may impose such reasonable conditions and requirements
as it deems necessary and appropriate to ensure continued compliance with a
sign permit review criteria.
      (6)   Effect of a sign permit approval.
         (a)   The issuance of a sign permit shall authorize only the
installation or replacement of signage approved by the Community Development
Department.
         (b)   A sign permit, including any conditions, shall run with the land
and shall not be affected by a change in ownership.
      (7)   Time limit.
         (a)   Failure to install the approved signage within six months of the
date of approval will invalidate the permit.
         (b)   Upon written request, one extension of six months may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (8)   Amendments. All requested amendments to an existing sign permit
shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (9)   Appeal. The applicant for a sign permit may appeal the decision of
the Community Development Department to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals per
§
153.028(H).
   (K)   Temporary use permits.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This division sets out the procedures to follow
when requesting a temporary use permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1798.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for a temporary use permit
shall be initiated by application of the property owner or other person having
authority to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a temporary use permit shall be in
accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for a
temporary use permit shall also include at least the following to be considered
complete (except as exempted by the Community Development Department):
            1.   A written narrative which includes:
               a.   A description of the proposed temporary use, how it will
function on the property, hours and dates of operation, and any other
information necessary to fully describe the request; and
               b.   An explanation of how the proposed temporary use will meet
each of the criteria set forth in §
153.028(L)(4)(a), as well as any additional criteria that may apply for the
specific use as listed in §§
153.090 through
153.093.
            2.   A site plan of the property showing all information necessary
to accurately depict how the proposed use will function on the site.
Information required on the site plan shall include but not be limited to:
               a.   The location of all existing and proposed structures;
               b.   Driveways and parking areas;
               c.   Proposed storage spaces;
               d.   Natural features such as woodlands, wetlands, shorelines,
etc;
               e.   Proposed number of parking spaces (if applicable).
            3.   Any other information that may be reasonably required by the
city to evaluate the application.
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Temporary use permit review criteria. Approval of a temporary
use permit shall only be granted once the Community Development Department has
determined the use shall:
            1.   Not be detrimental to property or improvements in the
surrounding area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare;
            2.   Be compatible with the principal uses taking place on the
site;
            3.   Not have substantial adverse effects or noise impacts on
nearby residential neighborhoods;
            4.   Not include permanent alterations to the site;
            5.   Not maintain temporary signs associated with the use or
structure after the activity ends;
            6.   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply
to a site or use on the site;
            7.   Not interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use
located on the property; and
            8.   Contain sufficient land area to allow the temporary use,
structure, or special event to occur, as well as adequate land to accommodate
the parking and traffic movement associated with the temporary use, without
disturbing environmentally sensitive lands.
         (b)   Temporary use permit review process.
            1.   The Community Development Department will review all temporary
use permit applications.
            2.   Applications determined to conform with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(L)(4)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A copy of the approved permit shall be
provided to the applicant which includes all conditions and comments.
            3.   Applications not conforming with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(L)(4)(a) shall be denied by the Community Development Department. A
notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant which includes all
identified reasons for denial.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions. In approving a temporary use permit, the
Community Development Department may impose such reasonable conditions and
requirements as deemed necessary and appropriate to ensure continued compliance
with ordinance requirements.
      (6)   Effect of a temporary use permit approval.
         (a)   The issuance of a temporary use permit shall authorize only the
specific temporary use approved by the Community Development Department over
the specified timeframe.
         (b)    Issuance of another temporary use permit on the same site for
an identical or similar use as determined by the Community Development
Department shall be per the requirements of this chapter.
      (7)   Time limit. No permit shall authorize a temporary use for more than
the allowable duration specified in Table 5-6 for the specific temporary use.
      (8)   Amendments and withdrawals.
         (a)   All requested amendments to a temporary use permit shall be
processed in the same manner as a new application.
         (b)   Amendments may not alter the allowed timeframe for a temporary
use if the temporary use authorized under an existing permit has already begun.
         (c)   Approved temporary use permits may be withdrawn by the applicant
prior to the temporary use beginning to avoid the 90 days between temporary
uses requirement in §
153.028(L)(6)(b).
         (d)   Approved permits for temporary uses that have already begun
cannot be withdrawn.
      (9)   Appeals. The applicant for a temporary use permit may appeal the
decision of the Community Development Department to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals per §
153.028(H).
   (L)   Administrative home occupation permits.
      (1)   Purpose and scope. This division sets out the procedures to follow
when requesting an administrative home occupation permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1784.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for an administrative home
occupation permit shall be initiated by application of the property owner or
other person having authority to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for an administrative home occupation permit
shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b) In addition to general review requirements, applications for an
administrative home occupation permit shall also include at least the following
to be considered complete (except as exempted by the Community Development
Department):
            1.   A narrative regarding the home occupation which addresses the
following issues:
               a.   How many employees will be working at the home occupation
site;
               b.    All activities proposed to occur in conjunction with the
home based occupation (i.e. office work, customer visits, sales, stock storage,
etc);   
               c.   Vehicle related issues (e.g. will there be a vehicle(s)
used in conjunction with the business? Will the business require any non-
standard deliveries to the site? Where will customers park? etc).
               d.   A calculation of the square footage within structures to be
used by the home occupation.
            2.   A site plan showing in general how the home occupation will
operate on the site. The site plan should show (as applicable):
               a.   All buildings to be used by the home occupation;
               b.   Proposed outdoor storage areas;
               c.   Proposed parking areas for vehicles and/or customers;
               d.   Proposed sign location(s) in conformance with sign
regulations;
               e.   Any proposed alterations to buildings to accommodate the
home occupation;
               f.   Any proposed features necessary to hide visible evidence of
the home occupation from either the public right-of-way or adjacent properties
(e.g. plantings, screening fences, etc).
      (4)   Review.
         (a)   Administrative home occupation review criteria. Approval of an
administrative home occupation permit shall be based on the following criteria:
            1.   The home occupation shall meet all of the general requirements
for home occupations in §
153.092(D)(18)(d);
            2.   The home occupation shall meet all of the general requirements
specific to administrative home occupations in §
153.092(D)(18)(f);
         (b)   Administrative home occupation review process.
            1.   The Community Development Department will review all
administrative home occupation permit applications.
            2.   Applications determined to conform with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(M)(4)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A copy of the approved permit shall be
provided to the applicant which includes all conditions and comments.
            3.   Applications not conforming with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(M)(4)(a) shall be denied by the Community Development Department. A
notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant which includes all
identified reasons for denial.
      (5)   Reasonable conditions. In approving an administrative home
occupation permit, the Community Development Department may impose such
reasonable conditions and requirements as deemed necessary and appropriate to
ensure continued compliance with ordinance requirements.
      (6)   Effect of an administrative home occupation permit approval.
         (a)   The issuance of an administrative home occupation permit shall
authorize only the activities and uses approved by the Community Development
Department.
         (b)   An administrative home occupation permit, including any
conditions, shall run with the land and shall not be affected by a change in
ownership.
         (c)   The initial administrative home occupation permit for a property
may be issued for a period of one year.
         (d)   Renewals of existing administrative home occupation permits may
be issued for periods of up to three years at the discretion of the Community
Development Department upon consideration of the operation as observed by staff
and the level of complaints made about the home occupation.
         (e)   An applicant shall not have a vested right to a permit renewal
by reason of having obtained a previous permit. In applying for and accepting a
permit, the permit holder agrees that his monetary investment in the home
occupation will be fully amortized over the life of the permit and that a
permit renewal will not be needed to amortize the investment. Each application
for the renewal of a permit will be reviewed without taking into consideration
that a previous permit has been granted. The previous granting or renewal of a
permit shall not constitute a precedent or basis for the renewal of a permit.
      (7)   Time limit.
         (a)   Failure to begin the approved home occupation within six months
of the date of approval will invalidate the permit.
         (b)   Upon written request, one extension of six months may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (8)   Amendments. All requested amendments to an administrative home
occupation permit shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (9)   Appeal. The applicant for an administrative home occupation permit
may appeal the decision of the Community Development Department to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals per §
153.028(H).
   (M)   Grading, drainage and erosion control permit.
      (1)   Purpose. This section establishes when a grading, drainage
stormwater management, and erosion control permit (“grading permit”) is
required, how it will be reviewed, information required with the application,
and how unauthorized work will be handled. Requiring a grading permit enables
the city to protect the public by ensuring that erosion does not endanger water
resources or unnecessarily require extra maintenance of sewers and ditches and/
or the dredging of lakes and ponds. A grading permit promotes the public
welfare by guiding, regulating, and controlling the design, construction, use,
and maintenance of any development or other activity that disturbs or breaks
the topsoil or results in the movement of earth on land in Monticello. All
grading requirements can be found in §
153.069.
      (2)   In general. A grading permit shall be required for land-disturbing
activity that would require the uncovering or distributing of material in
excess of any of the following measurements:
         (a)   Five thousand square feet.
         (b)   Four hundred cubic yards undeveloped land, or 40 cubic yards
developed land.
         (c)   Within 200 feet of a waterway or surface water(s).
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   No grading permit is required for land disturbances under the
amounts specified in §
153.028(M)(2), or for the following activities:
            1.   Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources.
            2.   General establishment of new construction lawns, or the
addition of four or fewer inches of topsoil.
            3.   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use.
         (b)   In the case of grading specific to and in conjunction with a
single building permit, a separate grading permit is not required.
            1.   The building permit shall be reviewed and serve as the grading
permit.
            2.   The individual lot permittee shall be required to provide a
letter of credit or other security deemed acceptable by the city with the
building permit application.
               a.   The security shall cover city costs for street sweeping,
installation, maintenance and repairs to erosion control measures. The bond
will be in an amount as specified by the current city ordinance for fee
schedule. Said security shall be provided prior to the release of the grading
permit.
               b.   The security shall be released after turf is established as
specified in the City Design Guidelines and Plan Requirements Manual, and the
turf establishment is inspected by the City of Monticello and deemed to be
approved.
      (4)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a grading permit shall be in accordance
with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for a
grading permit shall also include at least the following to be considered
complete (except as exempted by the Community Development Department):
            1.   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the
owner or developer of the site, and of any consulting firm retained by the
applicant together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such
firm.
            2.   A grading, drainage, stormwater management, and erosion
control plan meeting the requirements of §
153.069(D). Each application shall include the required number of plans and
other required materials as specified by the Community Development Department.
            3.   The application form shall include a statement by the
applicant that any land clearing, construction, or development involving the
movement of earth shall be in accordance with the approved grading, drainage,
stormwater management, and erosion control plan.
            4.   The permittee will be required to file with the City of
Monticello an irrevocable, automatically renewing letter of credit, or other
improvement security in the amount specified by the current city ordinance for
fee schedule. This security shall be in addition to the required non-refundable
filing fee as specified by city ordinance, which shall be submitted under
separate payment.
               a.   The security shall cover all costs of engineering and
inspection, site improvements, street sweeping, repairs to erosion control
measures, and maintenance of improvements for such period as specified by the
City of Monticello. Said security shall be provided prior to the release of the
grading permit.
               b.   Security shall be released after final stabilization is
complete, erosion control measures have been removed and their removal area
inspected by the City of Monticello and deemed to be approved.
         (c)   The City of Monticello requires complete application no less
than 15 working days in advance of the desired grading permit release date.
      (5)   Review.
         (a)   Grading permit review criteria. Approval of a grading permit
shall be based on the following criteria:
            1.   Whether the proposed grading permit is consistent with all the
requirements of §
153.069 and any other City Code requirements;
            2.   Whether the proposed grading permit is in compliance with all
engineering standards adopted by the city;
            3.   Whether the proposed grading permit is in compliance with any
previous approvals for the facility (e.g. grading for additional parking
previously approved by a conditional use permit).
         (b)   Grading permit review process.
            1.   The Community Development Department shall review all grading
permit applications.
            2.   Applications determined to conform with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(M)(5)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A copy of the approved permit shall be
provided to the applicant which includes all conditions and comments.
            3.   Applications not conforming with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(M)(5)(a) shall be denied by the Community Development Department. A
notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant which includes all
identified reasons for denial.
      (6)   Reasonable conditions. In approving a grading permit, the Community
Development Department may impose such reasonable conditions and requirements
as it deems necessary and appropriate to ensure continued compliance with the
grading permit review criteria and other city ordinances.
      (7)   Effect of grading permit approval. The issuance of a grading permit
shall authorize only the changes approved by the Community Development
Department as depicted by the application materials.
      (8)   Time limit.
         (a)   Failure to complete the authorized grading within six months of
the date of approval will invalidate the permit.
         (b)   Upon written request, one extension of six months may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (9)   Amendments. All requested amendments to an existing grading permit
shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (10)   Unauthorized work. Work done without the authorization of a permit
and/or found to be out of conformance with approved plans shall be immediately
halted and subject to the remedies and penalties described in §
153.999. Driveways or parking lots being built out of conformance shall be
brought into conformance.
      (11)   Appeal. The applicant for a grading permit my appeal the decision
of the Community Development Department to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
per §
153.028(H).
   (N)   Driveway permits.
      (1)   Purpose. This section establishes when a driveway permit is
required, how it will be reviewed, information required with the application,
and how unauthorized work will be handled. Requiring a driveway permit enables
the city to inspect work done within the right-of-way, protect the public by
setting and enforcing construction standards and ensure proper pavement
construction.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1782.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. A request for a driveway permit shall be
initiated by application of the property owner or other person having authority
to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   In general.
         (a)   A driveway permit shall be required for the installation,
repair, expansion, reconfiguration or resurfacing of any driveway or parking
lot intended for use by more than three vehicles.
         (b)   A driveway permit shall only be issued after the Community
Development Department determines the proposed plan sets adhere to the city’s
adopted engineering standards.
      (4)   Application.
         (a)   All applications for a driveway permit shall be in accordance
with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
         (b)   In addition to general review requirements, applications for a
driveway permit shall also include at least the following to be considered
complete (except as exempted by the Community Development Department):
            1.   A written narrative providing the following information:
               a.   The legal description, address, and owners name of the
premises involved;
               b.   The date on which the proposed improvement is proposed to
be commenced;
               c.   The name, address, and contact information for the
contractor being hired to complete the proposed improvements.
            2.   A site plan (or certified site survey if required by the
Community Development Department) at a scale and in quantities deemed necessary
by the Community Development Department showing:
               a.   Lot dimensions;
               b.   Lot area in square feet;
               c.   Location of all existing buildings, landscaping, screening
and natural features as directed by the Community Development Department
(including but not limited to woodlands, wetlands, shorelines, and individual
trees which may be impacted by the proposed driveway or parking lot
construction);
               d.    Location of the existing driveway (if applicable), the
proposed driveway and the square footage and dimension of each;
               e.   Driveway material;
               f.   Location of existing public sidewalks and trails;
               g.   Calculation of the existing and proposed impervious surface
coverage on the lot;
               h.   Identify existing and proposed curb types specifically
calling out proposed changes to existing facilities.
            3.   For new construction and expansions, an erosion control plan
shall be submitted.
      (5)   Review.
         (a)   Driveway permit review criteria. Approval of a driveway permit
shall be based on the following criteria:
            1.   Whether the proposed driveway permit is consistent with all
the requirements of this chapter and any other City Code requirements;
            2.   Whether the proposed driveway permit is in compliance with all
engineering standards adopted by the city;
            3.   Whether the proposed driveway permit is in compliance with any
previous approvals for the facility (e.g. adding parking as previously approved
by a conditional use permit).
         (b)   Driveway permit review process.
            1.   The Community Development Department shall review all driveway
permit applications.
            2.   Applications determined to conform with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(O)(4)(a) shall be approved by the Community Development Department with
any conditions deemed necessary. A copy of the approved permit shall be
provided to the applicant which includes all conditions and comments.
            3.   Applications not conforming with the approval criteria
outlined in §
153.028(O)(4)(a) shall be denied by the Community Development Department. A
notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant which includes all
identified reasons for denial.
      (6)   Reasonable conditions. In approving a driveway permit, the
Community Development Department may impose such reasonable conditions and
requirements as it deems necessary and appropriate to ensure continued
compliance with the driveway permit review criteria.
      (7)   Effect of driveway permit approval. The issuance of a driveway
permit shall authorize only the changes approved by the Community Development
Department as depicted by the application materials.
      (8)   Time limit.
         (a)   Failure to complete driveway or parking lot improvements within
six months of the date of approval will invalidate the permit.
         (b)   Upon written request, one extension of six months may be granted
by the Community Development Department if the applicant can show good cause.
      (9)   Amendments. All requested amendments to an existing driveway permit
shall be processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (10)   Unauthorized work. Work done without the authorization of a permit
and/or found to be out of conformance with approved plans shall be immediately
halted and subject to the remedies and penalties described in §
153.999. Driveways or parking lots being built out of conformance shall be
brought into conformance.
      (11)   Appeal. The applicant for a grading permit my appeal the decision
of the Community Development Department to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals
per §
153.028(H).
   (O)   Planned unit developments.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the Planned Unit Development
(PUD) zoning district is to provide greater flexibility in the development of
neighborhoods and non-residential areas in order to maximize public values and
achieve more creative development outcomes while remaining economically viable
and marketable. This is achieved by undertaking a process that results in a
development outcome exceeding that which is typically achievable through the
conventional zoning district. The city reserves the right to deny the PUD
rezoning and direct the developer to re-apply under the standard applicable
zoning district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1792.png]
 
      (2)   Initiation of proceedings. Applications for a PUD shall be
initiated by application of the property owner or other person having authority
to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
      (3)   Reflection on the official zoning map.
         (a)   PUD provisions provide an optional method of regulating land use
which permits flexibility in allowed uses and other regulating provisions. In
some circumstances, however, rules and regulations governing the original
zoning district, or other zoning regulations found elsewhere in the city’s
ordinances, may be appropriate to apply within the PUD. As such, approval of a
Planned Unit Development and execution of a PUD agreement shall require the
property in question be rezoned to PUD. For each PUD District, a specific
ordinance shall be adopted, along with a tracking designation for use on the
official zoning map to distinguish it from other PUD districts and identify the
adopted ordinance in the City Code. Once a PUD has been granted and is in
effect for a parcel, no building permit shall be issued for that parcel which
is not in conformance with the approved PUD Plan, the current Minnesota State
Building Code and all associated documents, and with all other applicable City
Code provisions.
         (b)   All PUD rezonings approved prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall retain their zoning classifications of R-PUD, and shall continue
to be governed by the ordinance and resolutions which created these areas.
         (c)   All PUDs previously granted by conditional use permit shall
continue to be regulated under the terms of the CUP.
      (4)   Permitted locations for PUD rezoning. A rezoning to PUD may be
requested for any area regardless of current zoning.
      (5)   PUD qualifications. Rezonings to PUD will be considered only for
areas of land in single ownership or control, except in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Natural features of the land are such that development under
standard zoning regulations would not be appropriate in order to conserve such
features;
         (b)   The land is intended to be developed in accordance with a prior
PUD adjacent to or across the street from the subject property;
         (c)   The PUD process is desirable to ensure compatibility and careful
consideration of the effect of a development on surrounding land uses;
         (d)   Multiple party ownership is adequately secured through a
corporation, partnership, or other legal entity that will ensure the ability to
fulfill all of the obligations of the PUD process, including approvals,
development, and securities.
      (6)   Permitted uses within PUDs. Uses within a PUD shall be governed by
the ordinance establishing the PUD and by the conditions, if any, imposed by
the city in the approval process and PUD documents.
      (7)   Expectations of a development seeking a rezoning to PUD. Planned
unit development is designed to allow flexibility from the application of
standard zoning regulations to achieve a variety of public values that will be
identified for each specific PUD project. The following list represents
examples of public values that may be applicable to any individual PUD project,
but is not necessarily inclusive, nor are all examples applicable to all
projects:
         (a)   Ensure high quality construction standards and the use of high
quality construction materials;
         (b)   Promote a variety of housing styles which include features such
as side or rear loaded garages, front porches, varying roof pitches, and four
sided architecture/articulation;
         (c)   Eliminate repetition of similar housing types by encouraging a
housing mixture that diversifies the architectural qualities of a neighborhood;
         (d)   Promote aesthetically pleasing design within the neighborhood
and appears attractive and inviting from surrounding parcels;
         (e)   Incorporate extensive landscaping and site amenities in excess
of what is required by code;
         (f)   Provide high-quality park, open space, and trail opportunities
that exceed the expectations established in the Comprehensive Plan;
         (g)   Provide access to a convenient and efficient multi-modal
transportation system to service the daily needs of residents at peak and non-
peak use levels, with high connectivity to the larger community;
         (h)   Promote development that is designed to reduce initial
infrastructure costs and long-term maintenance and operational costs;
         (i)   Where applicable, maximize the use of ecologically-based
approaches to stormwater management, restore or enhance on-site ecological
systems, and protect off-site ecological systems including the application of
low impact development (LID) practices;
         (j)   Facilitate a complementary mix of lifecycle housing;
         (k)   Preserve and protect important ecological areas identified on
the city’s natural resource inventory (NRI);
         (l)   Accommodate higher development intensity in areas where
infrastructure and other systems are capable of providing appropriate levels of
public services, and require lower intensity in areas where such services are
inadequate, or where natural features require protection and/or preservation.
      (8)   Areas of flexibility.
         (a)   The city may consider an increase in the density or intensity of
the project, along with related reductions in lot width and size if the PUD
provides substantially more site amenities and public values, as outlined in §
153.028(O)(7), than could be achieved in a conventional development for the
applicable land use zone.
         (b)    The city may consider flexibility with regard to land uses,
setbacks, lot size, width, and depth, specific finishing standards of this
chapter, and access to public streets, among other zoning and subdivision
standards when reviewing a PUD rezoning request. Specifications and standards
for lots shall be at the discretion of City Council, and shall encourage a
desirable living or working environment which assists in achieving the goals
set out for PUDs.
         (c)   The city may consider flexibility in the phasing of a PUD
development. Changes to the proposed staging or timing of a PUD may be approved
by the City Council when necessary or on the showing of good cause by the
developer.
      (9)   PUD procedure. All requests for rezoning to planned unit
development shall follow the steps outlined below.
         (a)   PUD concept proposal.
            1.   Prior to submitting formal development stage PUD, preliminary
plat (as applicable) and rezoning applications for the proposed development,
the applicant may, at its option, prepare an informal concept plan and present
it to the Planning Commission and City Council at a concurrent work session, as
scheduled by the Community Development Department. The purpose of the concept
proposal is to:
               a.   Provide preliminary feedback on the concept plan in
collaboration between the applicant, general public, Planning Commission , and
City Council;
               b.   Provide a forum for public comment on the PUD prior to a
requirement for extensive engineering and other plans;
               c.   Provide a forum to identify potential issues and benefits
of the proposal which can be addressed at succeeding stages of PUD design and
review.
            2.   a.   Initiation of proceedings. A request for a PUD concept
proposal review shall be initiated by the property owner and other person or
party having an interest in concept proposal.
               b.   Proposal submittal.
                  (i)   All proposals for a PUD concept proposal review shall
be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
                  (ii)   In addition to common review requirements, proposals
for a PUD Concept Plan Review shall also include at least the information in §
153.028(O)(9)(b)3. below to be considered complete (except as exempted by the
Community Development Department).
               c.   Specific PUD concept proposal submittal requirements. The
following information shall be provided unless waived by staff:
                  (i)   A listing of contact information including name(s),
address(es) and phone number(s) of: the owner of record, authorized agents or
representatives, engineer, surveyor, and any other relevant associates.
                  (ii)   A listing of the following site data: Address, current
zoning, parcel size in acres and square feet and current legal description(s).
                  (iii)   A narrative explaining the applicant's proposed
objectives for the PUD, and public values that the applicant believes may be
achieved by the project.
                  (iv)   A listing of general information including the number
of proposed residential units, commercial and industrial land uses by category
of use, public use areas including a description of proposed use, and any other
land use proposed as part of the PUD.
                  (v)   Calculation of the proposed density of the project and
the potential density under standard zoning regulations, including both gross
density and net density, accounting for developable and undevelopable land.
Undevelopable land shall include all wetlands, floodplains, sensitive
ecological areas identified in the Natural Resource Inventory, slopes greater
than 18%, poor soils and areas of concentrated woodlands.
                  (vi)   Outline a conceptual development schedule indicating
the approximate date when construction of the project, or stages of the same,
can be expected to begin and be completed (including the proposed phasing of
construction of public improvements and recreational and common space areas).
                  (vii)   A concept PUD proposal illustrating the nature and
type of proposed development. At a minimum, the plan should show:
                     A.   Area calculations for gross land area;
                     B.   Existing zoning district(s);
                     C.   Layout of proposed lots and proposed uses. Denote
outlots planned for public dedication and/or open space (schools, parks, etc.);
                     D.   Area calculations for each parcel;
                     E.   General location of wetlands and/or watercourses over
the property and within 200 feet of the perimeter of the subdivision parcel;
                     F.   Location of existing and proposed streets within and
immediately adjacent to the subdivision parcel;
                     G.   Proposed sidewalks and trails;
                     H.   Proposed parking areas;
                     I.   Proposed parks, common areas, and preservation
easements (indicate public vs. private if applicable);
                     J.   General location of wooded areas or significant
features (environmental, historical, cultural) of the parcel;
                     K.   Location of utility systems that will serve the
property; and
                     L.   Other: An applicant may submit any additional
information that may explain the proposed PUD.
                  (viii)   A listing of the areas of flexibility from the
standard zoning sought through the use of PUD design.
               d.   PUD concept plan proposal review. Upon receiving a PUD
concept plan proposal, the Community Development Department shall:
                  (i)   Schedule a joint meeting of the Planning Commission and
City Council and shall provide notice of the meeting to all property owners
within 350 feet of the property boundary of the proposal. During the concurrent
meeting, the Planning Commission and City Council may make comment on the
merit, needed changes, and suggested conditions which may assist the proposer
in future application for proposed rezoning and PUD development plan.
                     A.   The Planning Commission and City Council may also
take comment from the public as part of the joint meeting.
                     B.   The Council and Planning Commission shall make no
formal decision as part of the consideration The City Council and Planning
Commission’s comments are explicitly not an approval or decision on the
project, and are intended to represent preliminary feedback related to this PUD
ordinance, the applicable zoning regulations, and the Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   PUD development stage, preliminary plat, and rezoning.
            1.   Initiation of proceedings. Requests for PUD development stage,
rezoning to PUD and preliminary plat shall be initiated by application of the
property owner or other person having authority to file an application pursuant
to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications. The development stage PUD request
shall be subject to timelines set by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from
time to time. If the applicant has processed an optional concept proposal
review pursuant to §
153.028(D)(9)(a), the development stage application shall be submitted within
six months of such review. If more than six months have elapsed since the
concept review, the applicant may submit a new concept proposal unless the
Community Development Department determines to waive this provision.
            2.   Application.
               a.   All applications for rezoning to PUD and preliminary plat
shall be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
               b.   The application for rezoning to PUD shall be in accordance
with §
153.028(B), Zoning Ordinance Text and Zoning Map Amendments.
               c.   The application for preliminary plat (as applicable) shall
be in accordance with City Code, data required for preliminary and final plats;
and shall include the additional information requirements listed in §
153.028(O)(9)(c)3. below to be considered complete (except as exempted by the
Community Development Department).
               d.   If the PUD is proposed to develop over a timeframe
exceeding two years, a PUD phasing plan for the entire project (to be completed
in phases) shall be submitted. Subsequent PUD Final Stage plan applications
would only grant approval for an individual phase.
                  (i)   In such case where there is a phased PUD plan approved
as part of the Development and/or Final Stage PUD, and where future phases of
the PUD are proposed which may require additional city review prior to their
eligibility for construction, the city at its sole discretion may approve an
alternative Final Stage PUD and rezoning schedule as laid out in §
153.028(O)(9)(c)5.a.
               a.   All required information per §
153.028(O)(9)(b)3.;
               b.   Administrative information (including identification of the
drawing as a “PUD development stage plan,” the proposed name of the project,
contact information for the developer and individual preparing the plan,
signature of the surveyor and civil engineer certifying the document, date of
plan preparation or revision, and a graphic scale and true north arrow);
               c.   Area calculations for gross land area, wetland areas,
wetland buffers, right-of-way dedications, conservation areas, and proposed
public and private parks;
               d.   Existing zoning district(s);
               e.   Layout of proposed lots with future lot and block numbers.
The perimeter boundary line of the subdivision should be distinguishable from
the other property lines. Denote outlots planned for public dedication and/or
open space (schools, parks, etc.);
               f.   Area calculations for each parcel;
               g.   Proposed setbacks on each lot (forming the building pad)
and calculated buildable area;
               h.   Proposed gross hardcover allowance per lot (if applicable);
               i.   Existing contours at intervals of two feet. Contours must
extend a minimum of 200 feet beyond the boundary of the parcel(s) in question;
               j.   Delineation of wetlands and/or watercourses over the
property and within 200 feet of the perimeter of the subdivision parcel;
               k.   Delineation of the ordinary high water levels of all water
bodies;
               l.   Grading drainage and erosion control plan prepared by a
registered professional engineer, providing all information outlined in §
153.069(C);
               m.   Location, width, and names of existing and proposed streets
within and immediately adjacent to the subdivision parcel;
               n.   Easements and rights-of-way within or adjacent to the
subdivision parcel(s);
               o.   The location and orientation of proposed buildings;
               p.    Colored building elevations for all building sides which
detail the materials being used. Any landscaping shown on elevations must be
shown as it appears in size and height at the time of planting. The elevations
shall indicate the visual location and size of all exterior utility and
mechanical systems, including HVAC, meters, and powerlines;
               q.   Proposed sidewalks and trails;
               r.   Vehicular circulation system showing location and dimension
for all driveways, parking spaces, parking lot aisles, service roads, loading
areas, fire lanes, emergency access, if necessary, public and private streets,
alleys, sidewalks, bike paths, direction of traffic flow and traffic control
devices;
               s.   Lighting location, style and mounting and light
distribution plan.
               t.   Proposed parks, common areas, and preservation easements
(indicate public vs. private if applicable);
               u.   Landscape plan prepared by a qualified professional
providing all information outlined in §
153.060(D) including planting counts, sizes and species;
               v.   Location and detail of signage providing all pertinent
information outlined in §
153.028(K)(3)(b);
               w.   Location, access and screening detail of large trash
handling and recycling collection areas in compliance with the requirements of
§
153.092(D)(34); and
               x.   Any other information as directed by the Community
Development Department.
            4.   PUD development stage, preliminary plat and rezoning to PUD
review.
               a.   The application for rezoning to PUD shall be reviewed in
accordance with §
153.028(B), Zoning Ordinance Text and Zoning Map Amendments.
               b.   The application for Preliminary Plat shall be reviewed in
accordance with City Code Title 11, Preliminary Plat Procedure.
               c.   As part of the review process for both applications, the
Community Development Department shall generate an analysis of the proposal
against the expectations for PUDs and this chapter to formulate a
recommendation regarding the rezoning to the Planning Commission and City
Council.
               d.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and
consider the application’s consistency with the intent and purpose of the PUD
and comprehensive plan goals. The Planning Commission shall make
recommendations to the City Council on the merit, needed changes, and suggested
conditions of the proposed rezoning, preliminary plat and PUD development plan.
               e.   In approving or denying the PUD development stage
application and ordinance to rezone the subject property to PUD, the City
Council shall make findings on the following:
                  (i)   Whether the PUD plan is consistent with the city’s
comprehensive plan;
                  (ii)   Whether the PUD plan is tailored to the specific
characteristics of the site and achieves a higher quality of site planning and
greater public benefits than would be achieved under conventional provisions of
the ordinance;
                  (iii)   Whether the PUD plan addresses the purpose and intent
of the PUD rezoning laid out in §
153.028(O)(1), and the public values statement established at the beginning of
the process;
                  (iv)   Whether the PUD plan addresses the expectations of a
PUD laid out in §
153.028(O)(7);
                  (v)   Whether the PUD plan maintains or improves the
efficiency of public streets, utilities, and other public services;
                  (vi)   Whether the PUD plan results in development compatible
with existing adjacent and future guided land uses;
                  (vii)   Whether the PUD can be accommodated by existing
public services, such as parks, police, fire, administration, and utilities, or
the developer has provided for the growth and extension of such services as a
component of the PUD; and
                  (viii)   Whether the PUD is designed to take advantage of,
and preserve, the natural features of the subject property, including
waterways, forested areas, natural prairie, topography, views, etc.
               f.   An ordinance rezoning the property shall be prepared by the
city, for review at the development stage PUD, but adoption of such ordinance
shall occur only upon approval of the final stage PUD.
                  (i)   In the case of an approved phased PUD under §
153.028(O)(9)(b)2.d., the City Council may adopt the rezoning ordinance with
the Development Stage PUD, pursuant to the requirements of §
153.028(O)(9)(c)5.a. Such approval shall be conditioned on the submission of
Final Stage PUD plans for the initial phase and an amendment to PUD for
subsequent phases, processed in accordance with this section.
         (c)   PUD final stage and final plat.
            1.   Initiation of proceedings.
               a.    A final stage PUD plan and final plat that conforms with
the approved Development stage PUD and preliminary plat and associated PUD
rezoning ordinance shall be submitted no later than 60 days following the
development stage PUD approval for review within the time allotted by M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time. Applicants may request an
extension from the Community Development Department for such submittal for a
maximum of an additional six months), and shall request waivers for any
statutory time limits as necessary. Applications which fail to meet this
deadline shall be deemed void and shall require review and re-application
according to the development stage PUD process of this chapter.
               b.   The request for PUD final stage and final plat shall be
initiated by application of the property owner or other person having authority
to file an application pursuant to §
153.027(B), Authority to File Applications.
            2.   Application.
               a.   All applications for PUD final stage and final plat shall
be in accordance with §
153.027, Common Review Requirements.
               b.   The application for PUD final plat shall be in accordance
with City Code, Data Required for Preliminary and Final Plats.
               c.   In addition to general city code requirements, applications
for a PUD final stage and final plat shall also include at least the
information in §
153.028(O)(9)(d)3. below to be considered complete (except as exempted by the
Community Development Department).
            3.   Specific PUD final stage and final plat submittal
requirements.
               a.   If a PUD master plan for the entire project was submitted
and approved as part of the PUD development stage, an updated master plan shall
be submitted incorporating all changes required by the PUD development stage
approval.
               b.   The PUD development stage plan shall be updated to
incorporate all changes required by the PUD, preliminary plat and rezoning
approvals. This document must clearly show all deviations from standard zoning
being approved as part of the PUD.
               c.   The city shall prepare, and the applicant shall execute, a
developer’s agreement which references all PUD plans, development phasing,
required improvements, completion dates for improvements, the required letter
of credit, all required development fees, escrows, and warranties, and any
other information deemed necessary by the city.
               d.   The city shall, upon approval of the PUD final stage,
recording of the final plat, and execution of the PUD developer’s agreement,
publish the PUD ordinance specifying land use, densities, performance
standards, and ongoing general obligations of occupants of the PUD. Such
ordinance shall create a zoning district that is specific to the property for
which the PUD was applied, and shall be designated in such a way as to be able
to mark the official zoning map to identify the PUD ordinance. The PUD
ordinance shall also designate that such property is thereby rezoned to the PUD
district as adopted.
               e.   Up-to-date title evidence for the subject property in a
form acceptable to the city shall be provided as part of the application for
the PUD final plat.
               f.   Developer shall provide warranty deeds for property being
dedicated to the city for all parks, outlots, etc., free from all liens and
encumbrances except as otherwise waived by the City Council.
               g.    Developer shall provide all easement dedication documents
for easements not shown on the final plat including those for trails, ingress/
egress, etc., together with all necessary consents to the easement by existing
encumbrancers of the property.
               h.   Association declarations and/or other private covenant
documents or easements necessary to implement and maintain the PUD as approved
by the city.
            4.   PUD final stage and final plat review. The application for PUD
final stage and final plat shall be considered by the City Council at a public
meeting, following a review and report by the Community Development Department.
Approval of the PUD final stage and final plat shall be by simple majority vote
of the City Council, except where State law may specifically require a super
majority.
            5.   Final PUD approval shall occur by adoption of a rezoning
ordinance for the subject property specifying the uses, standards, and other
requirements of said PUD zoning district. Such ordinance shall include an
effective date clause which may delay the effective date of the ordinance until
such time as the applicant has met each of the conditions of approval required
by the City Council, in addition to other requirements including publication.
No approvals are valid, and no permits may be issued, until the ordinance takes
effect. If the final PUD is not approved by the City Council, or the applicant
fails to meet the conditions as described, the ordinance shall not take effect,
and the subject property shall retain its previous zoning designation.
               a.   In the case of a PUD with an approved phasing plan under §
153.028(O)(9)(b)2.d, the City Council may adopt the rezoning ordinance with the
Development Stage PUD, with subsequent phases subject to the requirements of
the PUD district ordinance. No construction permits for subsequent phases shall
be considered, nor will applications for such permits be accepted, until the
applicant has applied and received approval for amendment to the PUD and the
applicable PUD district ordinance. The PUD district zoning ordinance shall
include a clause specifying this requirement. Amendments to the PUD district
ordinance shall be processed in the manner described for Development and Final
Stage PUD applications, which may run concurrently for the purposes of
amendment to the PUD.
      (10)   PUD amendments. Approved PUDs may be amended from time to time as
a result of unforeseen circumstances, overlooked opportunities, or requests
from a developer. At such a time, the applicant shall make an application to
the city for a PUD amendment. All such amendments will be processed as one of
the following:
         (a)   Administrative amendment. The Community Development Department
may approve minor changes in the location, placement, and height of buildings
if such changes are required by engineering or other circumstances, provided
the conform to the review criteria applied by the Planning Commission and City
Council, and are consistent with all requirements of the PUD ordinance. Under
no circumstances shall an administrative amendment allow additional stories to
buildings, additional lots, or changes to designated uses established as part
of the PUD. An administrative amendment shall be memorialized via letter signed
by the Community Development Director and recorded against the PUD property.
         (b)   PUD Adjustment. An adjustment to a PUD may be made through
review and approval by a simple majority vote of the City Council with or
without referral to the Planning Commission. For a PUD adjustment, the
applicant shall follow the procedures and requirements of the PUD final stage
as identified in this chapter. A PUD adjustment shall be memorialized with an
amendment to the PUD development agreement, executed by the city and applicant,
and recorded against the PUD property. To qualify for this review, the minor
adjustment shall not:
            1.   Eliminate, diminish or be disruptive to the preservation and
protection of sensitive site features.
            2.   Eliminate, diminish or compromise the high quality of site
planning, design, landscaping or building materials.
            3.   Alter significantly the location of buildings, parking areas
or roads.
            4.   Increase or decrease the number of residential dwelling units
by more than 5%.
            5.   Increase the gross floor area of non-residential buildings by
more than 3% or increase the gross floor area of any individual building by
more than 5% (residential lots not guided for specific structure sizes are
excluded from this requirement).
            6.   Increase the number of stories of any building.
            7.   Decrease the amount of open space or alter it in such a way as
to change its original design or intended function or use.
            8.   Create non-compliance with any condition attached to the
approval of the final PUD plan.
         (c)   PUD amendment. Any change not qualifying for an administrative
amendment or a PUD adjustment shall require a PUD amendment. An application to
amend a PUD shall be administered in the same manner as that required for a PUD
development stage and preliminary plat.
      (11)   PUD cancellation. A PUD shall only be cancelled and revoked upon
the City Council adopting an ordinance rescinding the ordinance approving the
PUD. Cancellation of a PUD shall include findings that demonstrate that the PUD
is inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan or other application land use
regulations, threatens public safety, health, or welfare, or other applicable
findings in accordance with law.
      (12)   Administration. In general, the following rules shall apply to all
PUDs:
         (a)   Rules and regulations. No requirement outlined in the PUD
process shall restrict the City Council from taking action on an application if
necessary to meet state mandated time deadlines;
         (b)   Preconstruction. No building permit shall be granted for any
building on land for which a PUD plan is in the process of review, unless the
proposed building is allowed under the existing zoning and will not impact,
influence, or interfere with the proposed PUD plan.
         (c)   Effect on conveyed property. In the event any real property in
the approved PUD agreement is conveyed in total, or in part, the buyers thereof
shall be bound by the provisions of the approved final PUD plan constituting a
part thereof as well as the PUD zoning ordinance; provided, however, that
nothing herein shall be construed to create nonconforming lots, building sites,
buildings or uses by virtue of any such conveyance of a lot, building site,
building or part of the development created pursuant to and in conformance with
the approved PUD.
(Ord. 770, passed 2-28-2022; Ord. 781, passed 7-25-2022; Ord. 786, passed 9-26-
2022; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 831, passed 8-26-2024)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.040 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Adoption of zoning map. The map entitled City of Monticello Zoning
Map, January 24, 2011, hereinafter referred to as the “zoning map,” and all
explanatory matters thereon, are hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter. Questions concerning a zoning designation or boundaries of a zoning
district shown on the zoning map shall be resolved by referring back to the
previously adopted ordinances delimiting the districts and boundaries.
   (B)   Types of zoning districts. Land within the city is generally
classified by this chapter to be within one of a number of base zoning
districts. Land within any base zoning district may also be classified into one
or more overlay zoning districts, in which case regulations governing
development in the overlay district shall apply in addition to the regulations
governing development in the underlying base zoning district, unless expressly
stated otherwise.
   (C)   District boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of the districts are established as shown on the
zoning map. Unless otherwise indicated on the zoning map, the district
boundaries are parcel lines or the corporate limit lines, as they existed at
the time of the enactment of this chapter.
      (2)   New base district lines or rezoning lines shall follow parcel
lines.
   (D)   Zoning classifications for newly annexed property. Any land annexed to
the city in the future shall initially be placed in the A-O Agricultural Open
District, unless placed in another district by action of the City Council after
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
§ 153.041 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Establishment of base districts. Table 3-1, Base Zoning Districts,
sets out the base residential, business, and industrial zoning districts
established by this chapter.
TABLE 3-1: BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation District Name
TABLE 3-1: BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation District Name
Residential Districts
A-O          Agricultural Open District
R-A          Residential Amenities District
R-1          Single-family Residential District
R-2          Single and Two-family Residential District
T-N          Traditional Neighborhood District
R-3          Medium Density Residential District
R-4          Medium-High Residential District
M-H          Mobile & Manufactured Home Park District
Business Districts
B-1          Neighborhood Business District
B-2          Limited Business District
B-3          Highway Business District
B-4          Regional Business District
CCD          Central Community District
Industrial Districts
IBC          Industrial and Business Campus District
I-1          Light Industrial District
I-2          Heavy Industrial District
 
   (B)   Establishment of overlay districts. Table 3-2, Overlay Zoning
Districts, sets out the overlay zoning districts established by this chapter.
TABLE 3-2: OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation District Name
TABLE 3-2: OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
Abbreviation District Name
FP           Floodplain District
W            Wetland District
WS           Wild and Scenic Recreational River District
SH           Shoreland District
FBS          Freeway Bonus Sign District
DW           Drinking Water Supply Management Area District
SU           Special Use Overlay District
 
   (C)   Classification of districts. Land shall be classified or reclassified
into a base or overlay zoning district only in accordance with the procedures
and requirements set forth in §
153.028(B), Zoning Ordinance Text and Zoning Map Amendments.
   (D)   Organization of base zoning district regulations. Section
153.042 establishes the general purposes of each base zoning district along
with the physical standards governing lots and structures within each district.
Each of these divisions has a common structure consisting of a purpose
statement, applicable size and dimensional standards for lots, an example of
the typical lot configuration found in the district, and a hypothetical graphic
depicting the districts physical regulations. Uses allowed in each district can
be found in §§
153.090 through
153.093. Finishing standards for lots (i.e. landscaping standards, parking
requirements, etc) can be found in §§
153.060 through
153.072.
   (E)   Diagrams and photographs for illustrative purposes only. The example
lot configurations, and hypothetical graphics of physical regulations are for
illustrative purposes only, and may not be consistent with all listed
requirements. In all cases, the dimensional requirement text of this chapter
shall control.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.042 COMMON DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all base zoning districts.
   (A)   Building within public easements prohibited. No building or structure
shall be placed within an easement dedicated for a public purpose unless
expressly authorized by a variance issued in accordance with §
153.028(C) or a license or encroachment agreement issued by the Community
Development Department.
   (B)   Outlots. No building permit or grading permit can be issued for a
parcel of land designated in a plat as an outlot unless specifically authorized
by the City Council.
   (C)   Principal buildings. Except as may be permitted by an approved planned
unit development, not more than one principal building shall be located on a
lot.
   (D)   Common yard and height requirements.
      (1)   In general.
         (a)    Unless otherwise authorized by variance or PUD, no lot, yard,
or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make such
lot, yard, or open space less than the minimum required by this chapter; and if
the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than the minimum
required, it shall not be further reduced.
         (b)   A yard or other open area required about a building shall not be
included as part of a yard or other open space for another building.
      (2)   Allowable yard encroachments.
         (a)   The following features may encroach into required yards:
            1.   Fences and walls that meet the standards in §
153.062,  may encroach into a required yard, but shall be subject to corner
visibility requirements, and shall not be placed within public rights-of-way,
conservation easements unless specifically permitted by the easement.
            2.   Walkways, patios, ramps, stairs, paved areas, and other
accessory structures less than 30 inches above grade, and all landscape
plantings are exempted from yard requirements except as may be specifically
required by this chapter, but are subject to corner visibility requirements,
and shall not be placed within conservation easements unless specifically
permitted by the easement.
            3.   In rear and side yards: recreational and laundry drying
equipment, arbors and trellises, balconies, decks, and air conditioning subject
to the following conditions:
               a.   Setback requirements of environmental protection districts
shall remain applicable.
               b.   A side yard setback of six feet shall be maintained.
               c.    A setback of 20 feet shall be maintained from property
lines abutting public rights-of-way.
               d.   A rear yard setback of six feet shall be maintained.
               e.   No encroachment shall be permitted within an existing or
required easement.
            4.   Appurtenances:
               a.   Appurtenances are permitted to encroach into a required
front or rear yard setback up to six feet.
               b.   Appurtenances are permitted to encroach into a required
side yard setback up to three feet.
               c.   Railings on landing places or porches extending into a
required side yard shall not exceed three feet, six inches in height.
               d.   Appurtenances shall not be located within existing or
required easements.
            5.   In the front yard, open, covered (roofed) porches over a front
entrance attached to a single- or two-family residential principal building
shall be allowed to encroach into the required front yard setback with the
following requirements:
               a.   Total encroachment into the required setback may be up to a
distance of six feet.
               b.   Total encroachment area may be no more than 72 square feet.
               c.   The encroachment space may include perimeter walls that are
no more than 40% of the height between the principal entrance floor elevation
and the lowest point on the proposed roof and/or ceiling above it. The
remaining vertical space must remain open, without enclosure of any material,
with the exception of any structurally required posts;
               d.   Encroachment into drainage and utility easements shall not
be permitted;
               e.   The building materials for the porch shall be consistent
with the principal structure;
               f.   No more than one such covered porch encroachment shall be
permitted for each dwelling unit.
                  (i)   For each single-family home, a maximum of one such
covered porch under this section shall be permitted to encroach into the
required front yard.
                  (ii)   For each two-family home, a maximum of two such
covered porches shall be permitted when over separate exterior entrances
leading to the interior of individual residential units.
         (b)   Corner visibility (see Figure 3-1).
            1.   Corner lots shall preserve areas necessary for corner
visibility by limiting the height of fences, walls, and all other obstructions
to a maximum of three feet above grade in the following areas:
               a.   For lots with an interior corner lot angle of 90 degrees or
more at a street or railway corner, the protected corner area is defined by a
triangle created by the two corner lot lines and an imaginary line between the
corner lot lines at 25 feet from the corner on each property lot line.
               b.   For lots with an interior angle of less than 90 degrees at
a street or railway corner, the protected corner area is defined by a triangle
created by the two corner lot lines and drawing an imaginary line between the
corner lot lines 25 feet from the corner on each property lot line plus one
foot for every ten degrees or fraction thereof less than 90 degrees.
            2.   Corner visibility standards do not apply to United States
mailboxes, police and fire alarm boxes, public utility poles, street name
markers, official traffic signs and control devices, and fire hydrants.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1804.png]
 
      (3)    Height requirements.
         (a)   In general. The total height of any structure shall not exceed
the maximum height limit established for the applicable zoning district unless
expressly stated otherwise in this chapter.
         (b)   Exceptions. Height limits shall not apply to chimneys, church
spires, belfries, cooling towers, cupolas and domes which do not contain
useable space, elevator penthouses, fire escapes or roof access stairways, flag
poles, mechanical equipment required to operate and maintain the building,
monuments, parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the limiting
height of the building, rooftop dish antennas, skylights, water towers, wind
electrical generators, telecommunication towers or similar appurtenances,
provided:
            1.   The appurtenance does not interfere with Federal Aviation
Regulations, Part 77, Objects Affecting Navigable Airspace;
            2.   The appurtenance does not extend more than 25 feet above the
maximum permitted building height, except as specifically allowed by this
chapter;
            3.   The appurtenance does not exceed a maximum height of 200 feet
above grade;
            4.   The appurtenance is not constructed for the purpose of
providing additional floor area in the building; and
            5.   The appurtenance complies with the screening requirements for
mechanical equipment and appurtenances in this chapter.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 815, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 153.043 RESIDENTIAL BASE ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The residential base zoning districts established in
this section are intended to provide a variety of housing options in a
comfortable, healthy, safe, and pleasant environment in which to live and
recreate at a neighborhood level. More specifically, they are intended to:
      (1)   Promote strong residential neighborhoods with a sense of connection
to the community;
      (2)   Foster citizen involvement in the community, interaction between
neighbors and neighborhood oriented support systems;
      (3)   Provide a range of housing choices and affordability through
varying housing densities, types and designs including accessory dwelling
units;
      (4)   Seek quality over quantity in new residential growth;
      (5)   Maintain a connection to the natural environment by incorporation
of natural characteristics into the development setting.
   (B)   Standards applicable to all residential base zoning districts.
      (1)   Zero side lot line development. Residential unit lots containing
duplexes or townhouses may be subdivided along the common wall in a “zero lot
line” arrangement, provided:
         (a)   The combined area of the base lot and individual unit lots
contains the required amount of lot area per unit as prescribed elsewhere in
this chapter;
         (b)   Unit lots shall meet all required setbacks from the boundaries
of the base lot;
         (c)   Any shared wall facing on a zero side lot line is a structural
wall capable of providing protection from fire, noise and visual encroachment.
      (2)   Condominiums. Residential lots of non-single-family structures may
be divided for the purpose of condominium ownership provided that:
         (a)   The principal structure containing the housing units shall meet
the setback distances of the applicable zoning district.
         (b)   Each condominium unit shall have the minimum lot area for the
type of housing unit and usable open space as specified in the area and
building size regulations of this chapter.
         (c)     Condominiums shall be designed to meet the International
Building Code as adopted in the Monticello City Code.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1848.png]
 
   (C)   Agricultural Open Space District (A-O). The purpose of the "A-O"
Agricultural-Open Space District is to provide suitable areas of the city for
the retention and utilization of open space and/or agricultural uses, prevent
scattered non-farm uses from developing improperly, and to secure economy in
government expenditures for public utilities and service.
      (1)   Lot area minimum: two acres.
      (2)   Lot width minimum: 200 feet.
   Typical A-O Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1810.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-3: A-O DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in feet)                                  Minimum
                                                                     Roof Pitch
                                      Max Height Minimum    Minimum  & Soffit
                 Interior Street      (stories/  Floor Area Building (vertical
           Front Side     Side   Rear ft.)       (sq. ft.)  Width    rise/
                                                            (ft.)    horizontal
                                                                     run)

Principal  50    30       30     50   NA         1000       20       NA
Structures
Accessory  [1]   6        30     6    15         NA         NA       NA
Structures
[1]: Accessory structures shall not be located beyond the front building line
established by the principal structure.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1846.png]
 
   (D)     Residential Amenities District (R-A). The purpose of the "R-A"
Residential Amenities District is to provide move up housing in the form of low
density, single-family, detached residential dwelling units and directly
related compleme ntary uses in areas of high natural residential amenities
including such conditions as woodlands, wetlands, and significant views.
      (1)   Base lot area.
         (a)   Minimum: 14,000 sq. ft.
         (b)   Average: 16,000 sq. ft. (at least 40% of lots created through
subdivision shall exceed 15,000 sq. ft. in size).
      (2)   Base lot width.
         (a)   Minimum: 90 ft.
         (b)   Average: 100 ft. (at least 40% of lots created through
subdivision shall exceed 100 ft. in width).
   Typical R-A Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1886.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-4: R-A DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
            Required Yards (in feet)                                 Minimum
                                                                     Roof Pitch
                                       Max       Minimum    Minimum  & Soffit
                  Interior Street      Height    Floor Area Building (vertical
            Front Side     Side   Rear (stories/ (sq. ft.)  Width    rise/
                                       f t.)                (ft.)    horizon
                                                                     tal run)

                                                 Minimum
                                                 foundation          6 in./12
Single-                                2.5       sizes by            in.
Family      35    10       20     30   stories   home type  24       no minimum
Building          [1]             [2]  35 feet   [3]                 soffit
                                                 2000                [5]
                                                 finishable
                                                 [4]
[1]:   For interior lots in R-1 and R-A districts, attached accessory uses
shall be setback no less than 6 feet from the side yard property line, provided
that the sum of both side yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
[2]:   The required rear yard shall consist of a space at least 30-feet in
depth across the entire width of the lot that is exclusive of wetlands, ponds,
or slopes greater than 12%.
[3]:   2,400 square foot gross floor area excluding a basement or cellar for
two story homes and a 1,600 square foot foundation for multi-level, rambler and
split entry homes.
[4]:   Finishable square footage is exclusive of required attached garage floor
area.
[5]:   Roof gables, shed roofs, dormers and porch roofs to allow for a lower
pitch to incorporate as an architectural feature, provided no such exempted
roof areas shall comprise any more than 20% of the total horizontal roof area
of a single-family structure as measured from a bird's-eye plan view.
            - An attached garage shall be included with all principal
            residential structures in the R-A district.
            - See §
            153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
Accessory   structures.
Structures  - The minimum floor area for the required attached garage shall be
and Uses    700 sq. ft.
            - No portion of any garage space may be more than five feet closer
            to the street than the front building line of the principal use
            (including porch).
            - See footnote [1] above as related to setbacks for attached
            accessory uses on interior lots.
            - §
            153.042, Common District Requirements
            - §
Other       153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
Regulations Districts
to Consult  - §
(not all    153.070, Building Materials
inclusive)  - §
            153.067, Off-Street Parking
            - §
            153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1854.png]
 
   (E)   Single- Family Residential District (R- 1). The purpose of the "R- 1"
Single-Family Residential District is to provide for low density, single-
family, detached residential dwelling units and directly related complementary
uses.
      (1)   Base lot area.
         (a)   Minimum: 10,000 sq. ft.
         (b)   Average: 12,000 sq. ft. (at least 40% of lots created through
subdivision shall exceed 12,000 sq. ft. in size).
      (2)   Base lot width.
         (a)   Minimum: 70 ft.
         (b)   Average: 80 ft. (at least 40% of lots created through
subdivision shall exceed 80 ft. in width).
   Typical R-1 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1894.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-5: R-1 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
            Required Yards (in feet)                                  Minimum
                                                                      Roof
                                       Max                   Minimu m Pitch &
                                       Height    Minimum     Building Soffit
            Front Interior Street Rear (stories/ Floor Area  Width    (vertical
                  Side     Side        ft.)      (sq. ft.)   (ft.)    rise/
                                                                      horizon
                                                                      tal run)

                                                 1,050                5 in./12
Single-                                2.5       foundation/          in.
Family      30    10 [1]   20     30   stories   2,000       24       no
Building          and [2]              35 feet   finishable           minimum
                                                 [4]                  soffit
                                                                      [5]
            [1]: For interior lots in R-1 and R-A districts, attached accessory
            uses shall be setback no less than 6 feet from the side yard
            property line, provided that the sum of both side yard setbacks
            shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
            [2]: Interior side yard setbacks for single-family homes on lots of
            record with a lot width 66 feet or less in the Original Plat of
            Monticello and Lower Monticello shall be at least six feet.
            [3]: The required rear yard shall consist of a space at least 30-
            feet in depth across the entire width of the lot that is exclusive
            of wetlands, ponds, or slopes greater than 12%.
            [4]: Finishable square footage is exclusive of required attached
            garage floor area.
            [5]: Roof gables, shed roofs, dormers and porch roofs to allow for
            a lower pitch to incorporate as an architectural feature, provided
            no such exempted roof areas shall comprise any more than 20% of the
            total horizontal roof area of a single-family structure as measured
            from a bird's-eye plan view.
            - An attached garage shall be included with all principal
            residential structures in the R-1 district.
            - See §
Accessory   153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
Structures  structures.
and Uses    - The minimum floor area for the required attached garage shall be
            550 sq. ft.
            - See footnote [1] above as related to setbacks for attached
            accessory uses on interior lots.
            - §
            153.042, Common District Requirements
            - §
Other       153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
Regulations Districts
to Consult  - §
(not all    153.070, Building Materials
inclusive)  - §
            153.067, Off-Street Parking
            - §
            153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1888.png]
 
   (F)    Single and Two- Family Residential District (R-2). The purpose of the
"R-2" Single and Two-Family Residential District is to provide for low to
moderate density one and two unit dwellings and directly related complementary
uses.
      (1)   Base density.
 
Unit Type                 Minimum Lot Area/Unit
Single-family             10,000 sq. ft.
Duplex/two-family         7,000 sq. ft.
Townhome*                 7,000 sq. ft.
Multi-family (3-4 units)* 5,500 sq. ft.
*By conditional use permit only. See also multi-family dwelling unit
standards.
 
      (3)   Minimum lot width.
 
          R-2 District Original Plat
Lot Width 80 ft.       66 ft.
 
   Typical R-2 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1870.png]
 
TABLE 3-6: R-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 Required Yards (in feet)                                           Minimum
                                                Minimum             Pitch &
                            Max      Minimum    Finished   Minimum  Soffit
       Interior Street      Height   Floor Area Floor Area Building (vertical
 Front Side     Side   Rear (stories (sq. ft.)  (sq. ft.)  Width    rise/
                            / ft.)              [3]        (ft.)    horizontal
                                                                    run)
TABLE 3-6: R-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
            Required Yards (in feet)                                          Minimum
                                                           Minimum            Pitch &
                                       Max      Minimum    Finished  Minimum  Soffit
                  Interior Street      Height   Floor Area Floor     Building (vertical
            Front Side     Side   Rear (stories (sq. ft.)  Area (sq. Width    rise/
                                       / ft.)              ft.)      (ft.)    horizontal
                                                           [3]                run)

                                                1,050
                                       2.5      foundatio
Single-     30    10 [1]   20     30   stories  n/         Minimum   24
Family            and [2]              35 feet  1,800      finished
                                                finishable square
                                                [3]        footage
                                       2.5                 must be            5 in./12
Duplex      30    10 [2]   20     30   stories             equivalen 24       in.
                                       35 feet  1,050      t to the           no minimum
                                                foundatio  principal          soffit [4]
Townhouse                                       n          use unit
Multi-                                 2.5      1,400      foundatio
family      30    10       20     30   stories  finishable 24size
Building                               35 feet


            [1]: For the Original Plat of Monticello and Lower Monticello, where
            adjacent structures (excluding accessory buildings within same block) have
            front yard setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum
            setback shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only
            one adjacent structure, the front yard minimum setback shall be the average
            of the required setback and the setback of the adjacent structure.
            [2]: Interior side yard setbacks for single-family homes on lots of record
            with a lot width 66 feet or less in the Original Plat of Monticello and
            Lower Monticello shall be at least six feet.
            [3]: Finishable and finished square footage is exclusive of required
            attached garage floor area
            [4]: Roof gables, shed roofs, dormers and porch roofs to allow for a lower
            pitch to incorporate as an architectural feature, provided no such exempted
            roof areas shall comprise any more than 20% of the total horizontal roof
            area of a structure as measured from a bird’s eye plan view.
            - An attached garage shall be included with all principal residential
            structures in the R-1 district.
            - See §
            153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
Accessory   structures.
Structure s -The minimum floor area for all required attached garages shall be 450 sq.
and Uses    ft.
            - No portion of any attached garage may be more than 10 feet closer to the
            street that the principal structure.
            - Except for single-family buildings, any driveway leading directly to an
            attached garage may not exceed 18"in width at the front yard property line.
            - §
            153.042, Common District Requirements
Other       - §
Regulations 153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning Districts
to Consult  - §
(not all    153.070, Building Materials
inclusive)  - §
            153.067, Off-Street Parking
            - §
            153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1850.png]
   (G)    Traditional Neighborhood Residential District (T- N). The purpose of
the "T-N" Traditional Neighborhood Residential District is to provide for
medium density, single-family, detached residential dwelling units and directly
related complementary uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 5,500 sq. ft.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 55 ft.
      (3)   Minimum lot depth: 100 ft.
   Typical T-N Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1900.png]
 
TABLE 3-7: T-N DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 Required Yards (in feet)                                           Minimum
                                                                    Pitch &
                                Max Height  Minimum     Minimu m    Soffit
           Interior Street      (stories/   Floor Area  Building    (vertical
 Front [1] Side     Side   Rear f t.)       (sq. ft.)   Width (ft.) rise/
                                                                    horizon tal
                                                                    run)
TABLE 3-7: T-N DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
            Required Yards (in feet)                                  Minimum
                                                                      Pitch &
                                       Max       Minimum     Minimu m Soffit
            Front Interior Street      Height    Floor Area  Building (vertical
            [1]   Side     Side   Rear (stories/ (sq. ft.)   Width    rise/
                                       f t.)                 (ft.)    horizon
                                                                      tal run)

                                                 1,050                5 in./12
Single-                                2.5       foundation/          in.
Family      25[1] 10       20     30   stories   2,000       24       no
Building                          [2]  35 feet   finishable           minimum
                                                 [2]                  soffit
                                                                      [5]
            [1]: The minimum width of the dimension of the principal building
            living area across the front building line shall be no less than 12
            ft., which may include a usable porch of at least 6 ft. in depth.
            The maximum building line of the attached garage may be no more
            than 20 ft. across the front building line.
            [2]: Finishable square footage is exclusive of required attached
            accessory space garage floor area.
            - An attached garage shall be included with all principal
            residential structures in the T-N district.
            - See §
            153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
            structures.
Accessor y  - The minimum floor area for the required attached garage shall be
Structure s 480 sq. ft.
and Uses    - For front-loaded attached garages, no portion of any garage space
            may be more than five feet closer to the street than the front
            building line of the principal use (including porch).
            - No private driveway leading to an accessory structure may exceed
            24 ft. in width at the front yard property line. Driveways shall be
            offset and separated to maximize on-street parking capacity.
            - §
            153.042, Common District Requirements
            - §
Other       153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
Regulations Districts
to Consult  - §
(not all    153.070, Building Materials
inclusive)  - §
            153.067, Off-Street Parking
            - §
            153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1856.png]
 
   (H)   Medium Density Residence District (R-3). The purpose of the “R-3”
Medium Density Residential District is to provide for medium density housing in
multiple-family structures ranging up to and including 12 units and directly
related, complementary uses.
      (1)   Base lot area.
         (a)   Minimum townhouse: 20,000 sq. ft.
         (b)   Minimum multi-family: 30,000 sq. ft.
      (2)   Base lot width. Minimum: 80 ft.
   Typical R-3 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1878.png]
 
TABLE 3-8: R-3 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
PUD Options for Multi- R-3 District Townhouse (4-10 R-3 District Multi-Family
Family Buildings       units/building)              (5-12 units/building)
TABLE 3-8: R-3 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
PUD Options for Multi-   R-3 District Townhouse (4- R-3 District Multi-Family
Family Buildings         10 units/building)         (5-12 units/building)
Base Lot Area (minimum)  20,000 sf.                 30,000 sf.
Base Lot Width (minimum) 80 ft.                     80 ft.
Gross Density            3-7 du/acre                8-12 du/acre
Max Density w/o PUD      4.0 du/acre                8.5 du/acre
Net lot area per du      4,500 sf/du, maximum       3,500 sf/du, maximum
Front setback            30 feet                    40 feet
Corner side setback      25 feet                    30 feet
Interior side setback    20 feet                    20 feet
Rear setback to building 30 feet                    40 feet
Clear open space setback 25 feet                    30 feet
from ROW
Clear open space setback 10 feet                    30 feet
from Property Line
Buffer Req. to Single-   B buffer                   B buffer
Family
Common open space per du NA                         500 sf/du
Landscaping              16 ACI/acre +2 shrubs per  16 ACI/acre +2 shrubs per
                         10 feet bldg. perimeter    10 feet bldg. perimeter
Parking requirements     1.2 spaces/bedroom, with 1 1.2 spaces/bedroom, with 1
                         space/bedroom enclosed     space/bedroom enclosed
                         20% street min frontage    20% street min frontage
Architecture             covered with enhanced      covered with enhanced
                         materials                  materials
                         5:12 pitch or roofline or  5:12 pitch or roofline or
                         building line              building line articulation,
                         articulation, including    including flat and/or
                         flat and/or varied         varied rooflines, parapets,
Roofs                    rooflines, parapets,       canopies or other similar
                         canopies or other similar  features which increase
                         features which increase    architectural interest and
                         architectural interest and variability.
                         variability.
                         1,000 sf. finished floor   Average 1,000 sf. finished
Unit square feet         area per unit, minimum     floor area per unit,
                                                    minimum
Garages                  Attached                   Enclosed, may be detached
TABLE 3-8: R-3 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
PUD Options for Multi- R-3 District Townhouse (4- R-3 District Multi-Family (5
Family Buildings       10 units/building)         -12 units/building)
TABLE 3-8: R-3 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
PUD Options  R-3 District
for Multi-   Townhouse (4-  R-3 District Multi-Family (5 -12 units/building)
Family       10 units/
Buildings    building)
             30 feet from
Garage       ROW (35 feet
Setback      from curb of   May not access street directly – must be served by interior driveway
             private
             street)
             Maximum 16
             feet width     No smooth panel doors – detached buildings must match principal building
Garage Doors facing street. materials and include architectural fenestration on sides facing
             No smooth      residentially zoned property or public right- of-way
             panel doors.
             Special
             landscape
             features
             including      Increased landscape quantities and/or Sizes beyond code minimums; Special
Landscaping  water          landscape features including water features, recreational structures,
             features,      patios, etc.
             recreational
             structures,
             patios, etc.
Open Space   --             Increased open space areas per unit beyond code minimums of 10% or more
Parking      --             All required garage parking attached to principal building
             Increased use
             of stone,
Building     brick beyond   Increased use of stone, brick beyond front, or on other exterior walls
Materials    front, or on
             other exterior
             walls
             Extensive use
             of ornamental
             features,
             building and/
             or roofline
             articulation,
             fenestration   Extensive use of ornamental features, building and/or roofline
Architecture and building   articulation, fenestration and building wall undulation atypical of other
             wall           buildings in similar zoning districts
             undulation
             atypical of
             other
             buildings in
             similar zoning
             districts
             Use of
             decorative
             paving
             materials in
             parking,
Site Work    sidewalks,     Use of decorative paving materials in parking, sidewalks, etc.;
             etc.;          Extensive use of ornamental site lighting or similar features.
             Extensive use
             of ornamental
             site lighting
             or similar
             features.
Housing for  Accommodations
Seniors      to design and
restricted   density        Accommodations to design and density through PUD process only
to 55 years  through PUD
of age or    process only
more
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1872.png]
 
   (I)     Medium-High Density Residence District (R-4). The purpose of the “R-
4”, Medium- High Density Residential District is to provide for medium to high
density housing in multiple- family structures of 13 or more units per
building, and at densities of between ten and 25 units per acre. The district
is intended to establish higher density residential opportunities in areas
appropriate for such housing, to be determined by the city on a case by case
basis. This district is intended to provide exclusively multiple-family housing
as defined in this chapter, as opposed to lower density housing types such as
townhouses, two-family homes, or single family homes. The City of Monticello
shall zone land to the R-4 District only when, in its sole discretion, all
aspects of the property support the potential uses of the R-4 District,
including location, private and public services, and compatibility with
existing and future land uses in the area. In making a determination as to the
suitability of a site for R-4 rezoning, the city will prioritize the following
site and area factors:
      (1)   Replacement land uses. R-4 zoning fits the following zoning
categories and circumstances:
         (a)   Land already zoned for R-3 Medium Density Residential District.
         (b)   Land currently zoned for commercial uses, but which would not be
considered "prime" commercial and critical to "Successful Commercial Centers
and Corridors" consistent with the City's 2040 Vision + Plan.
      (2)   Proximity to other residential neighborhoods.
         (a)   R-4 zoning may be allowed in proximity to other medium to high
density residential areas, however the nature and concentration of existing
multi-family structures shall be carefully considered to avoid an over
concentration of these uses.
         (b)   R-4 zoning may be allowed in proximity to lower residential
uses, if it is determined that the high density site can address the site and
area factors provided here.
      (3)   Architectural compatibility and building massing.
         (a)   In the vicinity of lower density residential areas, R-4 District
buildings need to be lower profile with regards to size and mass, or need to be
screened or buffered by distance and natural features.
      (4)   Requirement for adequate public facilities. High density
residential development shall be located to provide for the following essential
services and amenities:
         (a)   Access to public parks, pathways, and open space, without
overburdening them. R-4 development may be required to provide additional
facilities to meet the city's open space planning policies.
         (b)   Connection to public utilities.
         (c)   Access to major streets, or at the very minimum, avoidance of
traffic generation that would utilize local streets in lower density
residential areas.
         (d)   Proximity to commercial and/or medical services.
      (5)   Minimum and maximum density: ten units minimum – 25 dwelling units
maximum per acre.
TABLE 3-9: R-4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
TABLE 3-9: R-4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
PUD Options for
Multi-Family      R-4 District Multi-Family (13+ units/building)
Buildings
Base Lot Area     30,000 sf.
Gross Density     10-25 du/acre
Max Density w/    NA
o PUD
Net lot area per  Max 1,750 sf/du
du
Front setback     100 feet
Corner side       40 feet
setback
Interior side     30 feet
setback
Rear setback to   40 feet
building
Clear open space  60 feet
setback from ROW
Clear open space  40 feet - no more than 50% of any yard facing a street
setback from      covered with parking/drive aisles
Property Line
Buffer Req. to    C buffer
Single-family
Common open space 500 sf/du
per du
Landscaping       2 ACI/ 2,500 sf. open space + 4 shrubs /10 feet bldg.
                  perimeter
Parking           1.2 spaces/bedroom, with max 1.1 space/du uncovered
requirements
                  20% street min frontage covered with enhanced materials,
Architecture      horizontal siding of steel or cement-board only (no vinyl or
                  aluminum)
                  5:12 pitch, plus roof ridge line articulation of 3 feet min.
                  or roofline or building line articulation, including flat
Roofs             and/or varied rooflines, parapets, canopies or other similar
                  features which increase architectural interest and
                  variability.
Unit square feet  800 sf. minimum finished floor area per unit average, with no
                  more than 10% of the units as studio units
                  Attached or Underground Detached accessory garages allowed
Garages           only after base requirements are met; requires authorization
                  through Conditional Use Permit
Garage Setback    May not access street directly – must be served by interior
                  driveway
Garage Doors      Must include glass and decorative panels if visible from
                  public street or adjoining residentially zoned property
                  Increased landscape quantities and/or sizes beyond code
Landscaping       minimums; Special landscape features including water
                  features, recreational structures, patios, etc
Open Space        Increased open space areas per unit beyond code minimums of
                  10% or more
Parking           All required garage parking underground
Building          Increased use of stone, brick beyond front, or on other
Materials         exterior walls
                  Extensive use of ornamental features, building and/or
Architecture      roofline articulation, fenestration and building wall
                  undulation atypical of other buildings in similar zoning
                  districts
                  Use of decorative paving materials in parking, sidewalks,
Site Work         etc.;
                  Extensive use of ornamental site lighting or similar
                  features.
Housing for
Seniors
restricted to 55  Accommodations to design and density through PUD process only
years of age or
more
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1880.png]
 
   (J)   Mobile and Manufactured Home Park District (M- H). The purpose of the
“M-H” manufactured home park district is to provide for manufactured home users
and directly related uses.
      (1)     Base density: 4,000 sq ft per unit (10.9 units per gross acre).
      (2)    Base lot area. Minimum: 5 acres.
      (3)    Base lot width. Minimum: 200 ft.
   Typical M-H Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1864.png]
 
 
   TABLE 3-10: M-H DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
             Required Yards (in feet)                                Minimum
                                                                     Roof Pitch
                                        Max       Minimum   Minimum  & Soffit
                   Interior Street      Height    Floor     Building (vertical
             Front Side     Side   Rear (stories/ Area      Width    rise/
                                        ft.)      (sq. ft.) (ft.)    horizon
                                                                     tal run)

Manufactured
Home         See §
Building     153.091(C)(4) for all regulations governing manufactured home
Detached     parks
Accessory
Structures
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1858.png]
 
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 806, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 153.044 BUSINESS BASE ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)    General purpose. The business base zoning districts established in
this section are intended to:
      (1)   Provide appropriately located lands for the full range of business
uses needed by the city’s residents, businesses, and workers, consistent with
the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Strengthen the city’s economic base, and provide employment
opportunities close to home for residents of the city;
      (3)   Attract new investment in desired locations;
      (4)   Create suitable environments for various types of business uses,
and protect them from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
      (5)   Create suitable environments for various types of mixed use
development, where business, office, retail, and residential uses are designed
and integrated in compatible ways;
      (6)   Establish a sense of place along the city’s commercial corridors,
with attractive shop fronts and streetscapes;
      (7)   Minimize the impact of business development on residential
districts and uses.
   (B)   Standards applicable to all business base zoning districts.
      (1)   Condominiums.
         (a)   Commercial structures may be divided for the purpose of
condominium ownership.
         (b)   Condominiums shall be designed to meet the International
Building Code as adopted in the Monticello City Code.
   (C)   Neighborhood Business District, B-1. The purpose of the “B-1”
neighborhood business district is to provide for the establishment of local
centers for convenient, limited office, retail, or service outlets which deal
directly with the customer for whom the goods or services are furnished. These
centers are to provide services and goods only for the surrounding
neighborhoods and are not intended to draw customers from the entire community.
      (1)   Maximum residential density through PUD or performance standards:
5,445 sq. ft. per unit (eight units per gross acre).
      (2)   Base residential density: 8,000 sq. ft. per unit (five and one-half
units per gross acre).
      (3)   Base lot area. Minimum: 8,000 sq ft.
      (4)   Base lot width. Minimum: 80 ft.
   Typical B-1 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1818.png]
 
 
TABLE 3- 11: B-1 DEV ELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in
           feet)                                                        Max
                                  Max                                   Impervio
               Interi             Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  us
           Fro or     Street Rear (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
           nt  Side   Side        ft.)                                  gross lot
                                                                        area)

                                  2 stories
All Uses   30  15     20     20   30 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                  [1]
           [1]: Multi-story buildings may be allowed as a conditional use pursuant
           to §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code
           provisions as specified by the International Building Code as adopted
           in the Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
           Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1812.png]
 
   (D)    Limited Business District , B-2. The purpose of the “ B-2” limited
business district is to provide for low intensity retail or service outlets
which deal directly with the customer for whom the goods or services are
furnished. The uses allowed in this district are to provide goods and services
on a limited community market scale and located in areas which are well served
by collector or arterial street facilities at the edge of residential
districts.
      (1)   Maximum residential density: ten dwelling units per gross acre.
      (2)   Base lot area. No minimum.
      (3)   Base lot width. Minimum: 100 ft.
   Typical B-2 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1826.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-12: B-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in
           feet)                  Max                                   Max
                                  Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  Impervious
           Fro Interi Street      (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
           nt  or     Side   Rear ft.)                                  gross lot
               Side                                                     area)

                                  2 stories
All Uses   30  10     20     20   30 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                  [1]
           [1]: Multi-story buildings may be allowed as a conditional use pursuant
           to §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code
           provisions as specified by the International Building Code as adopted
           in the Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
           Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1820.png]
 
   ( E)    Highway Business District, B-3. The purpose of the “B-3” (highway
business) district is to provide for limited commercial and service activities
and provide for and limit the establish ment of motor vehicle oriented or
dependent commercial and service activities.
      (1)   Base lot area. No minimum.
      (2)   Base lot width. Minimum: 100 ft.
   Typical B-3 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1834.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-13: B-3 DEVELOPMENT STANDARD S
           Required Yards (in
           feet)                  Max                                   Max Impe
                                  Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  rvious
           Fro Interi Street      (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
           nt  or     Side   Rear ft.)                                  gross lot
               Side                                                     area)

                                  2 stories
All Uses   30  10     20     20   30 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                  [1]
           [1]: Multi-story buildings may be allowed as a conditional use pursuant
           to §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code
           provisions as specified by the International Building Code as adopted
           in the Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning
           Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1828.png]
 
   (F)    Regional Business District, B-4. The purpose of the “B-4” regional
business district is to provide for the establishm ent of commercial and
service activities which draw from and serve customers from the entire
community or region.
      (1)    Base lot area. No minimum.
      (2)   Base lot width. No Minimum.
   Typical B-4 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1842.png]
 
 
   TABLE 3-14: B-4 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in feet)                                         Max
                                      Max                                   Impervious
                 Interior Street      Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  (% of
           Front Side     Side   Rear (stories/ (FAR)                       gross lot
                                      ft.)                                  area)

                                      2 stories
All Uses   6     6        6      6    30 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                      [1]
           [1]: Multi-story buildings may be allowed as a conditional use pursuant to
           §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code provisions
           as specified by the International Building Code as adopted in the
           Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
   (G)    Central Community District, CCD.
      (1)    (a)    The purpose of the “CCD”, Central Community District , is
to provide for a wide variety of land uses, transportation options, and public
activities in the downtown Monticello area, and particularly to implement the
goals, objectives, and specific directives of the Comprehensive Plan, and in
particular, the 2017 Downtown Monticello “Small Area Plan” Comprehensive Plan
Amendment and its design and performance standards.
         (b)   All proposed development or redevelopment in the CCD shall be
subject to the requirements of the Comprehensive Plan and other standards
identified in the Small Area Plan report. It is not the intent of this chapter
to abrogate any general Zoning Ordinance requirements in the CCD, and all such
requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance apply fully within the CCD
unless addressed separately by a more detailed CCD zoning regulation.
         (c)   Projects that benefit from public investments and/or subsidies
will have a greater burden to provide higher levels of both private and public
amenities.
         (d)   Sub-districts. The CCD is hereby divided into five subdistricts,
four of which comprise the study area of the Small Area Plan. The CCD
regulations shall apply uniformly across all sub-districts unless specific sub-
district requirements apply. The City Council shall, in accordance with the
process providing for zoning map amendments in the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
adopt a zoning map for the CCD area identifying the subdistrict boundaries. The
subdistricts are known as:
            1.   Riverfront;
            2.   Broadway;
            3.   Walnut and Cedar Streets;
            4.   Pine Street; and
            5.   “General” shall be any area within the CCD that is not
identified as being within one of the four named subdistricts.
         (e)   Base lot area. No minimum.
         (f)   Base lot width. No minimum.
      (2)   Process requirements.
         (a)   New development or redevelopment projects within the Central
Community District shall require a site plan review by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   At the proposer’s option, or as required by this chapter, any
proposed project may combine the required site plan review as a part of a
concept plan review before a joint meeting of the Planning Commission and City
Council.
         (c)   Existing buildings shall be subject to the permitted and
conditional use allowances of this chapter.
         (d)   Projects which do not meet the requirements of this chapter may
utilize the Planned Unit Development (PUD) process.
      (3)   General requirements.
         (a)   Character areas. The Central Community District shall be further
regulated by four character sub-areas: Pine Street, Broadway, Walnut/Cedar and
Riverfront and shown in the Official Zoning Map.
         (b)   Projects across character area boundaries. By conditional use
permit, uses and standards may extend across character area boundaries (but not
into other zoning districts) a maximum distance of up to one-half block for
project purposes, provided the majority of the project square footage lies
within the permitted character-area, and the intent and character of the
downtown plan is maintained.
Where projects extend across character area boundaries, projects must show
compatibility to both character area standards relating to adjoining districts
and uses.
         (c)   Private joint-parking use. All new non-residential parking areas
shall be designed to accommodate cross-access and joint use throughout the CCD
zoning district to minimize the need for parking infrastructure.
         (d)   Accessory service/appurtenance uses. Building mechanical, waste-
handling, and delivery service areas shall not face the public street or public
spaces (with the exception of public parking lots), and shall be screened from
view of adjoining property with materials equivalent to those of the principal
building.
         (e)   Buildings adjacent to single-family. Building side walls
adjacent to single- family residentially zoned properties, or directly across a
public street from such properties, shall have side wall heights of no greater
than the horizontal distance to the nearest single-family structure. Buildings
abutting single-family residentially zoned properties shall have roofs sloping
toward the abutting single- family use, or shall employ at least one of the
transitional features in §
153.066.
         (f)   Building materials. Building materials for all uses shall be
predominantly glass, brick, natural or cultured stone, or equivalent masonry
material.
            1.   Materials for lapped siding, board-and-batten, or shake
exteriors shall be composite, maintenance free materials, and shall be limited
in overall exterior use to no more than 30% of building exterior for
residential structures.
            2.   Commercial and other structures, no more than 15% of building
exterior may be comprised of architectural metal, which shall be integrated
into the building design.
            3.   Mixed use buildings shall comply with the commercial building
requirements.
      (4)   Performance standards.
         (a)   Character area standards.
            1.   Broadway.
               a.   All buildings should have a storefront or entrance on
Broadway.
               b.   Buildings shall be oriented toward the front of the lot,
with a maximum ten-feet setback. Setbacks may be increased to accommodate
outdoor seating or activity spaces approved by Planning Commission during site
plan review. Such spaces shall be improved with enhanced paving and landscaping
materials and other elements.
               c.   Storefronts facing any public street shall consist of a
minimum of 50% window/door transparency on ground floor.
               d.   Buildings shall be between two to four stories, additional
stories may be authorized by conditional use permit. Single-story buildings may
be approved through site plan review by the Planning Commission and City
Council where multiple stories are impractical for the specific use. In such
cases, the building architecture should incorporate a façade that mimics
multiple stories through additional window openings or similar features.
               e.   Buildings shall have a maximum width of 60 feet, or shall
be articulated by setback, materials or window treatments roofline variation,
or other design methods to reflect the appearance of separate buildings, in
approximately 30 to 60-foot increments.
               f.   Ground floor commercial buildings which front on public
streets or open space shall not be entirely comprised of office uses, but shall
include other retail, hospitality or entertainment uses.
               g.   Sidewalks and/or pathway connections shall be provided for
all development projects.
            2.   Walnut/Cedar.
               a.   Features such as upper balconies, dormers, courtyards,
porches and dooryards shall be incorporated for residential uses.
               b.   Buildings shall be between two to four stories; additional
stories may be authorized by conditional use permit. Single-story buildings may
be approved through site plan review by the Planning Commission and the City
Council where multiple stories are impractical for the specific use. In such
cases, the building architecture should incorporate a façade that mimics
multiple stories through additional window openings or similar features.
               c.   Buildings shall be oriented toward Walnut and Cedar Street
and toward front corners where applicable.
            3.   Pine Street.
               a.   Buildings shall be between two to four stories; additional
stories may be authorized by conditional use permit. Single-story buildings may
be approved through site plan review by the Planning Commission and the City
Council where multiple stories are impractical for the specific use. In such
cases, the building architecture should incorporate a façade that mimics
multiple stories through additional window openings or similar features.
               b.   Buildings shall be oriented to Pine Street with secondary
entrances located on side or interior facades. Corner properties shall have
dual orientation.
            4.    Riverfront.
               a.   Features such as upper balconies, dormers, courtyards,
porches and dooryards shall be incorporated for residential uses.
               b.   Buildings shall be between two to four stories; additional
stories may be authorized by conditional use permit. Single-story buildings may
be approved through site plan review by the Planning Commission and the City
Council where multiple stories are impractical for the specific use. In such
cases, the building architecture should incorporate a façade that mimics
multiple stories through additional window openings or similar features.
               c.   Buildings shall be oriented toward river and public right
of way corners where applicable.
         (b)   Use type standards.
            1.   Residential.
               a.   Single/two-family: Where permitted, the requirements of the
R-2 District will apply.
               b.   Townhouse.
                  (i)   Permitted where the subject property has no direct
frontage on Broadway or Walnut/Cedar.
                  (ii)   Must preserve open space to coordinate with public
spaces.
                  (iii)   Building heights up to 25 feet or two stories above
grade.
                  (iv)   Setbacks – 15 feet from abutting single-family,
minimum of eight feet from public street. Interior side setbacks may be zero.
                  (v)   Variable roofline and front building walls.
                  (vi)   Classic row-house; living space to front; no garage-
front design.
                  (vii)   All parking in attached garages.
                  (viii)   Parking ratio of two spaces per du, off-street.
               c.   Multi four-12 du.
                  (i)    Only allowed where the subject property has no
frontage on Broadway, Walnut/Cedar. Conditionally permitted where the property
has direct frontage on Broadway or Walnut/Cedar.
                  (ii)   Must preserve open space to coordinate with public
spaces.
                  (iii)   Building heights up to 35 feet or three stories above
grade; additional stories authorized through conditional use permit.
                  (iv)   Setbacks – 15 feet from abutting single-family,
minimum of eight feet from public street. Interior side setbacks may be zero.
                  (v)   Variable roofline and front building walls.
                  (vi)   Garage entrances may not face a public street.
                  (vii)   Garages which face a single-family residential zoning
district must screen the garage entrance from the eye-level view of the
abutting property.
                  (viii)   All parking in attached garages within building
footprint (no surface parking).
                  (ix)    Parking ratio of 1.7 spaces per du, off-street, or a
minimum of no less than one space per bedroom, off-street, whichever is
greater. As part of site plan review, the Planning Commission may impose a
different (higher or lower) standard where the nature of the use supports such
standard.
                  (x)   Residential units on upper, non-ground floors of
buildings in the Riverfront Character Area are permitted as a part of mixed-use
buildings by conditional use permit.
               d.   Multi 13+ du.
                  (i)    Only allowed where the subject property has no
frontage on Broadway, Walnut/Cedar. Conditionally permitted where the property
has direct frontage on Broadway or Walnut/Cedar.
                  (ii)   Must preserve open space to coordinate with public
spaces.
                  (iii)   Building heights up to 50 feet or four stories above
grade; additional stories authorized through conditional use permit.
                  (iv)   Setbacks – shall be – 15 feet from abutting single-
family, minimum of eight feet from public street. Interior side setbacks may be
zero.
                  (v)   Variable roofline and front building walls.
                  (vi)   Garage entrances may not face a public street.
                  (vii)   Garages which face a single-family residential zoning
district must screen the garage entrance from the eye-level view of the
abutting property.
                  (viii)   All required parking shall be located in attached
garages within building footprint (no surface parking).
                  (ix)   Parking ratio of 1.1 spaces per dwelling unit bedroom
including adjacent on-street parking, or a minimum of no less than one space
per bedroom, off-street, whichever is greater. As part of site plan review, the
Planning Commission may impose a different (higher or lower) standard where the
nature of the use supports such standard.
                  (x)   Multiple-family housing limited to seniors may reduce
parking supply to half spaces per dwelling unit, off-street. As part of site
plan review, the Planning Commission may impose a different (higher or lower)
standard where the nature of the type of senior living use supports such
standard.
                  (xi)   Residential units on upper, non-ground floors of
buildings in the Riverfront and Broadway Character Area are permitted as a part
of mixed-use buildings.
               e.   Ground floor residential units. When allowed, subject to:
                  (i)   Common areas, lobbies, etc. (if any) should be oriented
toward street.
                  (ii)   Street levels should include additional window and
doorway glass exposure toward streets.
            2.   Commercial and mixed-use, generally.
               a.   Uses adjacent to single-family residential zoned properties
which include dining/drinking service spaces shall have one outdoor areas
facing public open space use areas.
               b.   Building heights of up to 50 feet or four stories shall be
permitted.
               c.   Buildings heights exceeding 50 feet or four stories may be
allowed by conditional use permit.
               d.   Residential units in mixed-use commercial buildings shall
include balcony spaces.
               e.   Building setbacks shall be 15 feet from abutting single-
family homes, minimum eight feet from public streets. Interior side setbacks
may be zero.
         (c)   Landscaping.
            1.   Site improvements in the CCD shall include landscaping
consistent with the requirements of §
153.060 – Landscaping and Screening.
            2.   Pedestrian, plaza/patio, and bicycle spaces on the property
shall integrate alternative pavement materials, designs, or features consistent
with the surrounding streetscape.
         (d)   Parking.
            1.   Off-street parking areas shall be developed and constructed
according to the requirements of §
153.067. Parking supply shall be as identified in this chapter, or where not
specified herein, as in §
153.067 – Off-Street Parking.
            2.   A commercial use which propose to vary from the requirements
of this section by deferring its required off-street supply and contributing to
the public parking fund shall be accompanied by a parking study, subject to
review and approval by Community Development staff, which illustrates an
adequate amount of available unused public parking within 400 feet of the
establishment’s primary entrance. “Adequate amount” shall be established by the
city on a case-by-case basis in review of the applicant’s individualized
parking study, but shall include the following elements, as a minimum: (1) an
examination of the public parking supply commonly available for use by the
proposed business during its peak usage hours; (2) the likely demand placed on
said supply by the proposed business based on contemporary resources for
parking utilization; and (3) an estimate of competing demand on said supply.
            3.   An existing business, as of the date of this chapter, which
has a parking supply which is substandard according to §
153.067 - Off-Street Parking, shall be considered a legal nonconformity. The
business may expand or change to another business that increases the parking
supply deficiency only by participating in the parking fund, according to the
requirements of this Section and §
153.067(E)(4)(c) for such deficiency.
            4.   Parking shall not be located on a parcel between the front
building line of the principal building and the public street, except where
expressly provided for by the City Council after recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
         (e)   Other performance standards.
            1.   All other performance standards as identified in §§
153.060 through
153.072 shall apply, unless otherwise addressed in this section.
            2.   Maximum residential density: 25.0 dwelling units per gross
acre.
            3.    Maximum building height: 60 feet.
               a.   Buildings may exceed 50 feet in height by conditional use
permit, with enhanced site improvements, architecture, and building materials.
            4.   Lot coverage, buildings.
               a.   Minimum building lot coverage: 20%.
               b.   Maximum building lot coverage: 90%.
            5.   Accessory structures.
               a.   For commercial uses, trash handling equipment shall be
located within buildings wherever practical. If located in a structure attached
to, or detached from, the principal building, such structure shall screen the
trash handling equipment from the view of all neighboring property and public
rights-of-way, and shall be constructed of materials which comprise the
principal building. Gates and/or doors shall be constructed of permanent opaque
materials, matching the principal building in color, and shall be kept closed
at all times other than when being used for access. Roofs for such structures
are encouraged, but not required when the screening wall of the enclosure is at
least eight feet in height.
               b.   For mixed-use and multi-family residential uses, trash
handling equipment shall be located within the principal building.
               c.   Any other accessory structures allowed in the CCD (see
Table 5-4 – Accessory Uses by District) shall meet all requirements of the CCD
district applicable to principal buildings.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.045 INDUSTRIAL BASE ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose. The industrial base zoning districts established in
this section are intended to provide locations for the retention, expansion and
creation of businesses that provide jobs for Monticello residents and expansion
and diversification of the property tax base. More specifically, these
districts are intended to:
      (1)   Provide locations for industrial development in the areas of
manufacturing, processing, warehousing, distribution and related businesses
consistent with the comprehensive plan;
      (2)   Allow non-industrial support businesses in industrial areas;
      (3)   Strengthen the city’s economic base, and provide employment
opportunities close to home for residents of the city;
      (4)   Attract new investment in desired locations;
      (5)   Create suitable environments for industrial uses, and protect them
from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
      (6)   Minimize the impact of industrial development on residential
districts and uses.
   (B)   Standards applicable to all industrial base zoning districts.
      (1)   Condominiums.
         (a)   Industrial structures may be divided for the purpose of
condominium ownership.
         (b)   Condominiums shall be designed to meet the International
Building Code as adopted in the Monticello City Code.
   (C)   Industrial and Business Campus District, IBC. The purpose of the “IBC”
industrial business campus district is to provide for the establishment of
limited light industrial business offices, limited light manufacturing,
wholesale showrooms and related uses in an environment which provides a high
level of amenities, including landscaping, preservation of natural features,
architectural controls, and other features.
      (1)   Base lot area. Minimum: 8,000 sq. ft.
      (2)   Base lot width. Minimum: 100 ft.
   Typical IBC Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1926.png]
 
TABLE 3-16 : IBC DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 Required Yards (in feet) [1]                                        Max
                              Max Height                             Impervious
       Interior Street        (stories/     Max Floor Area Ratio  (% of
 Front Side     Side   Rear   ft.)       (FAR)                       gross lot
                                                                     area)
TABLE 3-16 : IBC DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
            Required Yards (in feet)
            [1]                        Max                                   Max
                                       Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  Impervious
                  Interior Street      (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
            Front Side     Side   Rear ft.)                                  gross lot
                                                                             area)

                                       4 stories
All Uses    50    30       50     40   45 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                       [2]
            [1]: When any yard abuts a zoning district other than I-1 or I-2, the
            setbacks for the abutting yard must be 50 feet.
            [2]: Multi-story buildings of more than 4 stories and 45 feet may be
            allowed as a conditional use pursuant to §
            153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code provisions
            as specified by the International Building Code as adopted in the
            Monticello City Code.
Accessory   - See §
Structures  153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
            structures.
Additional  - In the IBC district, every effort shall be made to preserve natural
Regulations ponding areas and features of the land to create passive open space.
            - §
            153.042, Common District Requirements
            - §
            153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning Districts
Other       - §
Regulation  153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult  - §
(not all    153.064, Signs
inclusive)  - §
            153.067, Off-Street Parking
            - §
            153.068, Off-street loading spaces
            - §
            153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1920.png]
   (D)     Light Industrial District, I-1. The purpose of the "I-1," light indu
strial, distr ict is to pro vide for the establishm ent of war ehousing and
light industrial development.
      (1)   Base lot area. Minimum: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Base lot width. Minimum: 100 feet.
   Typical I-1 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1908.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-17: I-1 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in feet)
           [1]                                                              Max
                                      Max                                   Impervi
                                      Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  ous
           Front Interior Street Rear (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
                 Side     Side        ft.)                                  gross lot
                                                                            area)

                                      4 stories
All Uses   30    15       30     15   45 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                      [2]
           [1]: When any yard abuts a zoning district other than I-1 or I-2, the
           setbacks for the abutting yard must be 50 feet.
           [2]: Multi-story buildings of more than 4 stories and 45 feet may be
           allowed as a conditional use pursuant to §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code provisions
           as specified by the International Building Code as adopted in the
           Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1902.png]
   (E)    Heavy Industrial District, I-2. The pur pose of the "I-2 ," hea vy
ind ustrial , distric t is to provide for the establishment of heavy industrial
and manufacturing development and use which because of the nature of the
product or character of activity requires isolation from residential or
commercial use.
      (1)   Base lot area. Minimum: 30,000 square feet.
      (2)   Base lot width. Minimum: 100 feet.
   Typical I-2 Lot Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1918.png]
 
 
TABLE 3-18: I-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
           Required Yards (in feet)
           [1]                        Max                                   Max
                                      Height       Max Floor Area Ratio  Impervious
                 Interior Street      (stories/ (FAR)                       (% of
           Front Side     Side   Rear ft.)                                  gross lot
                                                                            area)

                                      4 stories
All Uses   30    15       30     15   45 feet   (Reserved)                  (Reserved)
                                      [2]
           [1]: When any yard abuts a zoning district other than I-1 or I-2, the
           setbacks for the abutting yard must be 50 feet.
           [2]: Multi-story buildings of more than 4 stories and 45 feet may be
           allowed as a conditional use pursuant to §
           153.028(D) contingent upon strict adherence to fire safety code provisions
           as specified by the International Building Code as adopted in the
           Monticello City Code.
Accessory  - See §
Structures 153.092(B) for all general standards and limitations on accessory
           structures.
           - §
           153.042, Common District Requirements
           - §
           153.043(B), Standards Applicable to All Residential Base Zoning Districts
Other      - §
Regulation 153.060, Landscaping and Screening Standards
to Consult - §
(not all   153.064, Signs
inclusive) - §
           153.067, Off-Street Parking
           - §
           153.068, Off-street loading spaces
           - §
           153.070, Building Materials
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1910.png]
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27- 2023)
§ 153.046 OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)     General purpose. Overlay zoning districts are superimp osed over
portions of one or more base zoning districts in order to introduce additional
zoning requiremen ts necessary to address a specific issue.
   (B)   Relationship to base zoning districts.
      (1)   Regulations governing development in an overlay zoning district
shall apply in addition to the regulations governing development in the
underlying base zoning district unless expressly stated otherwise in these
regulations.
      (2)   Conflicts between overlay district standards and other standards in
this chapter shall be resolved as outlined in §
153.007(C).
   (C)   Floodplain district.
      (1)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose.
         (a)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the State of
Minnesota has, in M.S. Chapter 103F and Chapter 462, as they may be amended
from time to time, delegated the responsibility to local government units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
Council of Monticello, Minnesota, does ordain as follows.
         (b)   Purpose.
            1.   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas
of the city of Monticello. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic
inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
            2.   National Flood Insurance Program Compliance. This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59 -78, as
amended, so as to maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
            3.   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Lands to which ordinance applies. This chapter applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Monticello within the boundaries
of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts. The boundaries of the zoning
districts are determined by scaling distances on the Flood Insurance Rate Map,
or as modified in accordance with §
153.046(C)(2)(a)2. below.
            1.   The Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts
are overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts.
The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
            2.   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the
flood elevations shall be the governing factor in locating the regulatory
floodplain limits.
            3.   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
will be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning
Commission and to submit technical evidence.
         (b)   Incorporation of maps by reference.
            1.   The following maps together with all attached material are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of the Official Zoning
Map and this chapter. The attached material, all prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, includes:
               a.   Currently effective Flood Insurance Study:
                  (i)   Flood Insurance Study for Wright County Minnesota and
Incorporated Areas, dated June 20, 2024.
               b.   Currently effective Flood Insurance Rate Map panels, dated
June 20, 2024, enumerated below:
                  (i)   27171C0155D.
                  (ii)   27171C0160D.
                  (iii)   27171C0165D.
                  (iv)   27171C0170D.
                  (v)   27171C0190D.
            2.   These materials are on file in the City Clerk’s Office, City
of Monticello City Hall.
         (c)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. However, where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
         (d)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter does not
create liability on the part of Monticello or its officers or employees for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
         (e)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of
this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
         (f)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases
used in this chapter must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
            ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot
with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
            BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
            BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the “regional flood.” The
term “base flood elevation” is used is used in the flood insurance survey.
            BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having
its floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless
of the depth of excavation below ground level.
            CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in
the official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
               a.   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance
exist.
               b.   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive
land use plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
            CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities necessary to a community’s public
health and safety, those that store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-
reactive materials, and those that house occupants that may be insufficiently
mobile to avoid loss of life or injury. Examples of critical facilities include
hospitals, correctional facilities, schools, daycare facilities, nursing homes,
fire and police stations, wastewater treatment facilities, public electric
utilities, water plants, fuel storage facilities, and waste handling and
storage facilities.
            DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
            EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location
of floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
            FARM FENCE. A fence as defined by M.S. §
344.02, subd. 1(a)-(d). An open type fence of posts and wire is not considered
to be a structure under this chapter. Fences that have the potential to
obstruct flood flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated
as structures under this chapter.
            FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in
the stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
            FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
            FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the special flood hazard area (1%
annual chance flood) located outside of the floodway. Flood fringe is
synonymous with the term “floodway fringe” used in the flood insurance study
for Wright County, Minnesota.
            FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
            FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water
from any source.
            FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake
or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood.
            FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
            FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a
watercourse and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably
required to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
            LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area
(including basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 Code of Federal Regulations,
Part 60.3.
            MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term “manufactured home” does not include the term “recreational vehicle.”
            NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures, including additions and improvements,
and placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of this chapter.
            OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
            ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the “Regional
Flood” (see definition).
            PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not
accessory uses or structures.
            REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal
segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
            RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis,
is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term recreational vehicle is synonymous with the
term “travel trailer/travel vehicle.”
            REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods
known to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of
what can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the
1% chance or 100-year recurrence interval. Regional flood is synonymous with
the term "base flood" used in a flood insurance study.
            REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
            REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
            SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with “100-Year Floodplain.”
            START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement or other improvement that occurred before the permit’s
expiration date. The actual start is either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
            STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or
attached to the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to,
buildings, factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes,
recreational vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
153.046(I)(2)(b) and other similar items.
            SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Means damage of any origin sustained by a
structure where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
            SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
               a.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
               b.   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.” For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” is
as defined in 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 59.1.
         (g)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference into §
153.046(C)(2) above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the
corporate boundaries of the City of Monticello at the time of adoption of this
chapter. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city of
Monticello after the date of adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed
floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
         (h)   Detachments. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by
reference into §
153.046(C)(2) above will include floodplain areas that lie inside the corporate
boundaries of municipalities at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of
these floodplain land areas are detached from a municipality and come under the
jurisdiction of Monticello after the date of adoption of this chapter, the
newly detached floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this
chapter immediately upon the date of detachment.
      (3)   Establishment of floodplain districts.
         (a)   Districts.
            1.   Floodway District. The Floodway District includes those areas
within Zones AE, A2, A7 delineated within floodway areas as shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps adopted in §
153.046(C)(2).
            2.   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District includes
areas within Zones AE, A2, A7 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map and flood
boundary and floodway maps adopted in §
153.046(C)(2),but located outside of the floodway.
            3.   Reserved for General Floodplain District.
         (b)   Applicability. Where Floodway and Flood Fringe districts are
delineated on the floodplain maps, the standards in §
153.046(D) or §
153.046(E) will apply, depending on the location of a property.
      (4)   Requirements for all floodplain districts.
         (a)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify a development meets the standards outlined in this
chapter prior to conducting the following activities:
            1.   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
and repair also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction
with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in
this chapter.
            2.   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or fence,
although a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined in this chapter.
            3.   The use or change of use of a building, structure, or land.
            4.   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
            5.   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood,
fire, tornado, or any other source.
            6.   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage
of materials or equipment within the floodplain.
            7.   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including new or
replacement culverts and bridges), unless a public waters work permit has been
applied for.
            8.   Any other type of “development” as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Building sites. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone
area, all new construction and substantial improvements (including the
placement of manufactured homes) must be:
            1.   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            2.   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
            3.   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage; and
            4.   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
         (c)   Flood capacity. In no cases shall floodplain development
adversely affect the efficiency or unduly restrict the capacity of the channels
or floodways of any tributaries to the main stream, drainage ditches, or any
other drainage facilities or systems.
         (d)   Other.
            1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
            2.   Critical facilities, as defined in §
153.046(C)(2)(f), are prohibited in all floodplain districts.
   (D)   Floodway District (FW).
      (1)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set
forth in §
153.046(D)(2), are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district or any applicable overlay district:
         (a)   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
         (b)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
         (c)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
         (d)   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
         (e)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines, provided that the Department of Natural Resources’ Area Hydrologist
is notified at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit.
      (2)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
         (a)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
         (b)   The use must not obstruct flood flows or cause any increase in
flood elevations and must not involve structures, obstructions, or storage of
materials or equipment.
         (c)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general
public must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time
for evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the
depth (in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
153.046(J)(4) of this chapter and further subject to the standards set forth in
§
153.046(D)(4), if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district or any
applicable overlay district.
         (a)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
153.046(D)(1)(a) through (c) above and the uses listed in §
153.046(D)(3)(b) and (c) below.
         (b)   Extraction, fill and storage of soil, sand, gravel, and other
materials.
         (c)   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves, and
water control structures.
         (d)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
         (e)   Construction of fences that obstruct flood flows. Farm fences,
as defined in §
153.046(C)(2)(f), are permitted uses.
         (f)   Travel-ready recreational vehicles meeting the exception
standards in §
153.046(I)(2)(b).
         (g)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a
frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency flood event.
      (4)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
         (a)   All uses. A conditional use must not cause any increase in the
regional flood elevations or cause an increase in flood damages in the reach or
reaches affected.
         (b)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.
            1.   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel
operations and similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development
plan.
            2.   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment
which would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% chance or regional flood
may only be allowed if the City of Monticello has approved a plan that assures
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available.
         (c)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, as identified in §
153.046(D)(3)(a), may be permitted, provided that:
            1.   Structures are not intended for human habitation;
            2.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential;
            3.   Structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
            4.   Service utilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
within these structures must be elevated to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation or properly floodproofed;
            5.   Structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with the FP1 or FP2 floodproofing classifications in
the State Building Code. All floodproofed structures must be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
            6.   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be internally/
wet floodproofed to the FP3 or FP4 floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a minimal
investment. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following criteria:
               a.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
               b.   There must be openings on at least two sides of the
structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot above
the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to open a
garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for automatic
openings.
         (d)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters are subject to
the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (e)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must not
cause an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood. The technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
         (f)   Floodway developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
   (E)   Flood Fringe District (FF).
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in
§
153.046(E)(2). If no pre-existing, underlying zoning districts exist, then any
residential or nonresidential structure or use of a structure or land is a
permitted use provided it does not constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
         (a)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated
on fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside
limits of the structure.
         (b)   Accessory structures. As an alternative to the fill requirements
of §
153.046(E)(2)(a), structures accessory to the uses identified in §
153.046(E)(1) may be permitted to be internally/wet floodproofed to the FP3 or
FP4 floodproofing classifications in the State Building Code, provided that:
            1.   The accessory structure constitutes a minimal investment, does
not exceed 576 square feet in size, and is only used for parking and storage.
            2.   All portions of floodproofed accessory structures below the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation must be: (i) adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement and designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls; (ii) be constructed with materials
resistant to flood damage; and (iii) must have all service utilities be water-
tight or elevated to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            3.   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified
by a registered professional engineer or meet or exceed the following criteria:
               a.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there must be a minimum of two “automatic” openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
               b.   There must be openings on at least two sides of the
structure and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot above
the lowest adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to open a
garage door prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for automatic
openings.
         (c)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with §
153.046(E)(2)(a) of this chapter, or if allowed as a conditional use under §
153.046(E)(3)(c) below.
         (d)   The storage of any materials or equipment must be elevated on
fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (e)   All service utilities, including ductwork, must be elevated or
water-tight to prevent infiltration of floodwaters.
         (f)   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method.
         (g)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or
above an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning /emergency evacuation plan acceptable
to the City of Monticello.
         (h)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots
may be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four
upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
         (i)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
153.046(I) of this chapter.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses and activities may also be
allowed as conditional uses as a principal or accessory use only if allowed in
the underlying zoning district(s) or any applicable overlay district, following
the procedures in §
153.046(J).
         (a)   Storage of any material or equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
         (b)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with §
153.046(E)(2)(a).
         (c)   The use of methods to elevate structures above the regulatory
flood protection elevation, including stilts, pilings, parallel walls, or
above-grade, enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages, shall
meet the standards in §
153.046(E)(4)(f).
      (4)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses:
         (a)   The standards listed in §
153.046(E)(2)(d) through §
153.046(E)(2)(h) apply to all conditional uses.
         (b)   Residential basements, as defined by §
153.046(C)(2)(f), are not allowed below the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
         (c)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to
be placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally
dry floodproofed, meeting the FP1 or FP2 floodproofing classification in the
State Building Code, which requires making the structure watertight with the
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy.
         (d)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
            1.   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize
the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1% chance)
flood event.
            2.   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the City of
Monticello.
            3.   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
         (e)   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan providing for
removal of such materials within the time available after a flood warning.
         (f)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered
above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if: 1) the enclosed
area is above-grade on at least one side of the structure; 2) it is designed to
internally flood and is constructed with flood resistant materials; and 3) it
is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage. The above-
noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the following additional
standards:
            1.   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer as being in
compliance with the general design standards of the State Building Code and,
specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent flood water
from entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
Structure shall be subject to a nonconversion agreement with upon the issuance
of any permit.
            2.   Above-grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck
under garages must be designed to internally flood and the design plans must
stipulate:
               a.   The minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all
openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. The automatic openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The
automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters without any form of human intervention; and
               b.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP3 or FP4 classifications in the State
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
   (F)   Reserved for General Floodplain District.
   (G)   Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Subdivisions. No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for
reasons of flooding or inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this chapter.
         (a)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain
a building site outside of the Floodway District at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
         (b)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision
and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the
regulatory flood protection elevation, unless a flood warning emergency plan
for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1%
chance) flood has been approved by the City of Monticello. The plan must be
prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual, and must
demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
         (c)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and Flood
Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
         (d)   Subdivision proposals must be reviewed to assure that:
            1.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within the flood prone area;
            2.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
            3.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood
hazard.
   (H)   Public utilities, railroads, roads, and bridges.
      (1)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
must be flood proofed in accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges to be located within the floodplain must comply with §
153.046(C)(4) and §
153.046(D). These transportation facilities must be elevated to the regulatory
flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities
are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads
or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or
interruption of transportation services would not endanger the public health or
safety.
      (3)   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems. Where public
utilities are not provided: 1) On-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and are
subject to the provisions in Minn. Rules 4725.4350, as amended; and 2) New or
replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters, they must not be subject to impairment or
contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the provisions in
Minn. Rules 7080.2270, as amended.
   (I)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. New manufactured home parks and expansions to
existing manufactured home parks are prohibited in any floodplain district. For
existing manufactured home parks or lots of record, the following requirements
apply:
         (a)   Placement or replacement of manufactured home units is
prohibited in the Floodway District.
         (b)   Placement or replacement of manufactured home units in the Flood
Fringe District is subject to the requirements of §
153.046(E) and the following standards.
            1.   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in
compliance with §
153.046(D) of this chapter and must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
            2.   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured
home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in §
153.046(G)(1)(b) of this chapter.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Placement of
recreational vehicles in existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds in
the floodplain must meet the requirements below.
         (a)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the criteria
listed in §
153.046(I)(2)(b):
            1.   Individual lots or parcels of record.
            2.   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
            3.   Existing condominium-type associations.
         (b)   Criteria for exempt recreational vehicles:
            1.   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway
use.
            2.   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
            4.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the
removal of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined
in §
153.046(C)(4)(b) and §
153.046(E)(2)(b).
   (J)   Administration.
      (1)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the
City of Monticello must administer and enforce this chapter.
      (2)   Permit application requirements.
         (a)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
permit application must include the following as applicable:
            1.   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or
proposed buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an
influence on the permit.
            2.   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the
stream channel.
            3.   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal
permits or approvals.
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (b)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
Accessory structures designed in accordance with §
153.046(E)(2)(b) of this chapter are exempt from certification, provided
sufficient documentation is provided.
         (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Construction and use as provided on applications. Permits,
conditional use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the
basis of approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement,
and construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no
other use, arrangement, or construction. Any use arrangement, or construction
at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
         (e)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator must
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
         (f)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator
must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to
work in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from
time to time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the notification
must also be submitted to the Chicago Regional Office of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
         (g)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
      (3)   Variances.
         (a)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the
provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with
applicable state statutes and §§
153.025 through
153.028.
         (b)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance
must not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower
degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state
law.
         (c)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
            1.   Variances must not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
            2.   Variances may only be issued by a community upon (i) a showing
of good and sufficient cause; (ii) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and (iii) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that: 1) The issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
and 2) Such construction below the base or regional flood level increases risks
to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with a record of all
variance actions.
         (e)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
            1.   The potential danger of life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
            3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and
the ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease,
contamination and unsanitary conditions;
            4.   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            5.   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed
use to the community;
            6.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
            7.   The availability of viable alternative locations for the
proposed use that are not subject to flooding;
            8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing
development and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
            9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Land
Use Plan and floodplain management program for the area;
            10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
         (f)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the
City of Monticello must submit hearing notices for proposed variances to the
DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days’ notice of the
hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
         (g)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action.
The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR
area hydrologist.
         (h)   Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record
of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must
report such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of
the National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
      (4)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use
permit under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with §§
153.025 through
153.028.
         (b)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City of Monticello must consider all relevant factors
specified in other sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in §
153.046(J)(3)(e).
         (c)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City of
Monticello may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
            2.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
            3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
            5.   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant must submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
         (d)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the
City of Monticello must submit hearing notices for proposed conditional uses to
the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days’ notice of the
hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
         (e)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). The City of Monticello must submit hearing notices for
proposed conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at
least ten days’ notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic
mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
         (f)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (K)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of
land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which
is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may be continued
subject to the following conditions. Historic structures, as defined in §
153.046(C)(2)(f), are subject to the provisions of §
153.046(K)(1)(a) to §
153.046(K)(1)(f).
         (a)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be
expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood
damage potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided in
§
153.046(K)(1)(b) below. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or
occupancies within the Floodway District is prohibited.
         (b)   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage
potential must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
accordance with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques (i.e.,
FP1 thru FP4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the State Building
Code, except as further restricted in §
153.046(K)(1)(d) below.
         (c)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this chapter.
         (d)   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement as
defined in this chapter, then the entire structure must meet the standards of §
153.046(D) or §
153.046(E) for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If the current proposal,
including maintenance and repair during the previous 365 days, plus the costs
of any previous alterations and additions since the first Flood Insurance Rate
Map exceeds 50% of the market value of any nonconforming structure, the entire
structure must meet the standards of §
153.046(D) or §
153.046(E).
         (e)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in
this chapter, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses
or new structures in §
153.046(D) or §
153.046(E) will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
         (f)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive
loss, as defined in §
153.046(C)(2)(f), it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
      (2)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this chapter restricts the City of
Monticello from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond
to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this
chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
      (3)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this chapter will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of §§
153.120 through
153.124 and §
153.999. In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and City of Monticello may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including but not limited to prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The City of Monticello must act in good faith
to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (M)   Amendments.
      (1)   Floodplain designation – restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the Official Zoning Map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that, through other measures,
lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
      (2)   Amendments require DNR approval. All amendments to this chapter
must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption. The Commissioner must approve the
amendment prior to community approval.
      (3)   Map revisions require ordinance amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
153.046(C)(2).
   (N)   Wetland District.
      (1)   Findings, intent and incorporation by reference.
         (a)   The city has determined that wetlands serve to maintain water
quality by filtering water that is discharged into ground water aquifers and by
retaining inorganic sediments, toxicants, and nutrients. They also retain and
reduce the discharge of phosphorus and transform nutrients from their inorganic
to organic forms, thereby, protecting streams and water bodies from
eutrophication and contamination. Wetlands also store runoff and reduce the
velocity of and magnitude of flood peaks. In addition, some wetlands receive
the upward discharge of ground water. These wetlands tend to support more
stable biological communities since their water temperatures and water levels
tend to be more stable.
         (b)   Wetland vegetation also reduces the energy of waves, currents,
and other erosive forces and serves to prevent the erosion of shoreline areas.
In addition, aquatic vegetation provides food, shelter, and special habitat for
wildlife. All of these wetland characteristics provide valuable recreation and
education resources.
         (c)   The city has also found that wetlands vary significantly in the
degree that they have been altered. Wetlands within the city exhibit great
variations in their floral variety, quality of wildlife and fishery habitat,
degree of fluctuation in response to storms, the extent to which their
shorelines have been altered or eroded, and their relative value in protecting
water quality. Therefore, the city has determined that it is necessary and
beneficial to classify wetlands based upon their functions and values. The city
has also found that it is in the best interest of the general health and
welfare of the city to achieve no net loss of wetlands within the community.
         (d)   The city recognizes that a substantial amount of wetland
degradation results from sedimentation and nutrient loading related to
construction projects. Therefore, the city finds it necessary to require
extraordinary measures to prevent such construction related degradation.
         (e)   In addition to having regulations that affect the physical
impacts within wetland areas the city also finds that it is necessary to
regulate the use of lands surrounding wetlands. Wetland buffer strips (as
defined in § 153.012), are necessary and beneficial to maintaining the health
of wetlands. These strips of land surrounding wetlands protect their shorelines
from erosion, while serving to filter sediment, chemicals and other nutrients
before stormwater discharges into the wetland. Buffer strips are also
beneficial in providing habitat for wildlife.
         (f)   This section hereby incorporates by reference the Wetlands
Conservation Act of 1991 [M.S. §§ 103G.221 et seq., as it may be amended from
time to time, (herein after referred to as the WCA)] and any future amendments
adopted by the legislature. Any activities exempted from the provisions of the
WCA are also exempted from the requirements of this section, insofar as they
relate to the WCA. All wetlands, as defined in §
153.012, including those governed by the Department of Natural Resources, are
covered by the other provisions of this chapter. Also, there are circumstances
under which the strict enforcement of these regulations may be unreasonable and
in circumstances that meet the criteria established in §
153.028(C), departures from the strict application of these standards may be
permitted.
         (g)   It is the intent of §
153.046(C)(2) to avoid the alteration and destruction of wetlands. When
wetlands are altered or destroyed, mitigation must be provided to recreate the
functions and values of the lost wetland.
      (2)   Purpose and implementation.
         (a)   Through the adoption and enforcement of this section, the city
shall promote the general health, safety, and welfare of its residents by both
conserving and protecting wetlands and requiring sound management practices and
mitigation as provided for in the WCA when development occurs in the vicinity
of wetlands. Through the implementation of this section, the city seeks to
accomplish the following purposes:
            1.   To satisfy the requirements of the WCA as it may be amended
and, thereby achieve no net loss of wetlands within the city;
            2.   To balance the needs to preserve and protect natural resources
and systems with both the rights of private property owners and the need to
support the efficient use of developable land within the city;
            3.   To preserve the natural character of the landscape through the
maintenance of wetland ecosystems;
            4.   To promote water quality by maintaining the ability of
wetlands to recharge ground water and receive the discharge of ground water, to
retain sediment and toxicants and filter and strip nutrients from surface water
runoff before it discharges into community lakes and streams, thus avoiding the
contamination and eutrophication of these water features; and
            5.   To provide wildlife habitat and thereby support the
maintenance of variety of both plant and animal species within the city.
         (b)   To accomplish these purposes, the city will:
            1.   Maintain an inventory of all wetlands within the city;
            2.   Maintain a system of classification for wetlands within the
city and classify the city's wetlands based upon their relative values related
to floral variety, wildlife habitat, water quality protection, fishery habitat,
flood storage, shoreline protection, and aesthetic, recreational and education
benefits.
            3.   Prepare and maintain a comprehensive set of official maps
identifying the location and classification of all wetlands within the city.
            4.   Establish wetland regulations that are coordinated with
floodplain and shoreland protection regulations.
            5.   Require sound management practices to protect, conserve,
maintain, enhance, and improve the quality of wetlands within the community.
            6.   Enforce standards for the alteration of wetlands when
alteration is allowed, including standards and procedures for the mitigation of
the loss of wetland areas and their functions and values, when alteration or
destruction occurs.
            7.   Obtain protective easements over or acquire fee title to
wetlands as appropriate.
            8.   Develop and maintain a program to educate the public about the
numerous benefits and features that wetlands provide and the adverse effects of
improperly managed urban development on wetlands.
      (3)   General provisions.
         (a)   Identification and delineation of wetlands.
            1.   This section shall apply to all land containing wetlands and
land within the setback and buffer areas required by this section. Wetlands
shall be subject to the requirements established herein, as well as
restrictions and requirements established by other applicable federal, state,
and city ordinances and regulations. These wetland protection regulations shall
not be construed to allow anything otherwise prohibited in the zoning district
where the wetland area is located.
            2.   A wetland is land that meets the definition of "wetlands" as
set forth in §
153.012. Wetlands shall be determined according to the United States Army Corps
of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual (January 1987) and regional supplements
if available. Wetlands have been or will be identified and the wetland
classification as established by the officially adopted city maps shall be
prima facie evidence of the location and classification of a wetland. The
official maps shall be developed and maintained by the Community Development
Department and are open to inspection by the public. The presence or absence of
a wetland on the official maps does not represent a definitive determination as
to whether a wetland covered by this section is or is not present. Wetlands
that are identified during site specific delineation activities but do not
appear on the official wetland maps are still subject to the provisions of the
section. It will be the responsibility of an applicant to delineate the exact
wetland boundary or to determine that no wetland exists on a subject property.
All delineations must be reviewed and approved by the city. If an applicant
questions whether a wetland exists or disputes its classification, the
applicant shall have the burden to supply detailed information for review
supporting the applicant's assertion, including but not limited to,
topographic, hydrologic, floristic and soil data deemed necessary by the city
to determine the jurisdictional status of the wetland, its exact boundary and
its classification. Wetland delineations supplied by applicants shall be
certified by a qualified wetland delineator. Wetland delineators must satisfy
any certification requirements that may be established by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers or the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources.
            3.   Only that portion of a property within the boundaries of a
wetland shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
            4.    This section establishes four wetland classifications as
defined in §
153.012: exceptional quality, high quality, medium quality, and low quality.
Wetland classifications shall be established through a wetland functional
assessment.
      (4)   General standards. The following standards apply to all lands
containing or abutting a wetland:
         (a)   Septic and soil absorption systems must be set back a minimum of
75 feet from the city approved boundary of the wetland.
         (b)   The lowest ground floor elevation of a structure shall be two
feet above the 100-year flood elevation, three feet above the ordinary high
water mark, or three feet above the highest known water level, whichever is
greater, of public waters regulated by §
153.046(D) and §
153.046(E), whichever is greater.
         (c)   Structures intended to provide access across a wetland shall be
prohibited unless a permit is obtained in conformance with state regulations.
         (d)   The MPCA's Best Management Practices and Minnesota Storm Water
Manual, as applicable, shall be followed to avoid erosion and sedimentation
during the construction process.
         (e)   Before the city issues a building permit for a lot with a
required wetland buffer, the lot owner shall install the wetland monumentation
required by §
153.046(C)(4)(f).
         (f)   In cases where a site is not subject to the wetland buffer
strips and setbacks required by §
153.046(C)(4)(e), buildings, swimming pools, patios, decks, drive aisles, and
parking lots shall be set back not less than 15 feet from a wetland edge.
      (5)   Wetland buffer strips and setbacks.
         (a)   For lots of record created after effective date of this chapter
as denoted in §
153.004, a buffer strip shall be maintained abutting all wetlands. The setback
and buffer provisions of §
153.046(C)(4) shall not apply to lots of record created before the effective
date of this chapter. The city does however; strongly encourage the use of a
wetland buffer and setback on all lots in the city.
         (b)   Wetland buffer strips and structure setbacks shall apply to all
parcels of land whether or not the wetland is on the same parcel as a proposed
development.
         (c)   Buffer strip vegetation shall be established and maintained in
accordance with the requirements of this section. Buffer strips shall be
identified within each lot by permanent monumentation approved by the city.
         (d)   For roadways that must be aligned either adjacent to or across
wetlands and are subject to WCA replacement requirements, additional wetland
filling to create a buffer strip shall not be required. Trails that are
intended to serve an interpretive function may also be exempted from the buffer
requirement. All other roadways and trails shall meet the buffer standards
established in division (h) below.
         (e)   If the area of the buffer has a preconstruction slope of 12% or
greater, the buffer shall be at the applicable maximum width for the wetland
classification. The use of a meandering buffer strip to maintain a natural
appearance is encouraged but not required in areas of flat topography.
         (f)   The required structure setback shall apply to all structures,
except that such structure setback shall not apply to roadways and trails and
their related retaining walls and fences.
         (g)    Pursuant to the regulations of this section, the following
dimensional requirements shall apply for wetland buffers and setbacks:
TABLE 3-19: WETLAND BUFFER AND SETBACKS FOR EXISTING WETLANDS, IMPACTED
WETLANDS, AND MITIGATED WETLANDS
 Exceptional High Medium Low
TABLE 3-19: WETLAND BUFFER AND SETBACKS FOR EXISTING WETLANDS, IMPACTED
WETLANDS, AND MITIGATED WETLANDS
                                    Exceptional High   Medium Low
Wetland buffer width (minimum)      50 ft.      40 ft. 10 ft. 10 ft.
Wetland buffer width (maximum) [1]  100 ft.     60 ft. 50 ft. 50 ft.
Wetland buffer average width        75 ft.      50 ft. 30 ft. 25 ft.
Structure setback (from buffer) [2] 15 ft.      15 ft. 15 ft. 15 ft.
Total (average)                     90 ft.      65 ft. 45 ft. 40 ft.
[1]: Buffer widths in excess of the listed maximums shall not be used in
calculating the average buffer width.
[2]: These setbacks shall take precedence over other setbacks required in
this chapter.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1928.png]
 
      (6)    Monument required. A permanent wetland buffer monument shall be
installed and maintained at each lot line where it crosses a wetland buffer,
and where needed to indicate the contour of the buffer, with a maximum spacing
of 200 feet of wetland edge.
      (7)    Buffer strip vegetation performance standards.
         (a)   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in buffer strip
areas, such vegetation shall be retained. A buffer strip has acceptable natural
vegetation if it:
            1.   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that have
been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five consecutive years, or
            2.   Has an overstory of trees or shrubs with at least 80% canopy
closure that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five consecutive
years, or
            3.   Contains a mixture of the plant communities described in 1.
and 2. above, that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five
consecutive years.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the performance standards outlined in division
(7)(a) above, the city may determine existing buffer vegetation to be
unacceptable if:
            1.   It is composed of undesirable plant species (including but not
limited to reed canary grass, common buckthorn, purple loosestrife, leafy
spurge or noxious weeds), or
            2.   It is lacking a layer of organic thatch or duff, or
            3.   Has topography that tends to channelize the flow of surface
runoff, or
            4.   For some other reason it is unlikely to retain nutrients and
sediment.
         (c)   Where buffer areas, or a portion thereof, are not vegetated or
have been cultivated or otherwise disturbed within five years of the permit
application, such areas shall be re-planted and maintained according to each of
the following standards:
            1.   The soil in wetland buffer strips shall be amended, as
necessary, to ensure that the soil has an organic content of not less than 10%
and not more than 35%.
            2.   Buffer zones shall be planted with a Board of Water and Soil
Resources (BWSR) approved seed mix containing 100% perennial native plant
species, except for a one-time planting of an annual nurse or cover crop such
as oats or rye.
            3.   The seed mix to be used shall consist of at least 12 pounds
pure live seed (PLS) per acre of native prairie grass seed and five pounds PLS
per acre of native forbs. Native prairie grass and native forb mixes shall
contain no fewer than four and five species, respectively.
            4.   The annual nurse or cover crop shall be applied at a rate of
20 pounds per acre.
            5.   Native shrubs may be substituted for forbs. Such shrubs may be
bare root seedlings and shall be planted at a rate of 60 plants per acre.
Shrubs shall be distributed so as to provide a natural appearance and shall not
be planted in rows.
            6.   Any ground cover or shrub plantings installed in buffer areas
are independent of landscaping requirements set forth elsewhere in the City
Code and city policy.
            7.   Native prairie grasses and forbs shall be planted by a
qualified contractor using a drill designed for native prairie grass seedings,
such as a Truax or Nesbitt Native Grass Drill or a John Deere 1550 Power-Till
Seeder.
            8.   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer zones,
except on highly disturbed sites when deemed necessary to establish acceptable
buffer vegetation and then limited to amounts indicated by an accredited soil
testing laboratory.
            9.   All seeded areas shall have a two-inch thick application of
compost (Mn/DOT Grade 1 Section 3890) or be mulched immediately with clean
straw at a rate of one and one-half tons per acre. Mulch shall be anchored with
a disk or tackifier.
            10.   Buffer zones (both natural and created), shall be protected
by silt fence during construction and the fence shall remain in place until the
area crop is established.
            11.   Applicants may obtain from the city a set of standard seeding
and planting specifications for buffer zones which meet all the city
requirements.
         (d)   During the first five years after initial planting, the
developer shall submit to the city an annual report documenting the progress
for establishment of the buffer. The report shall include a map of the buffer
location, a description of compliance with the performance standards, a
description of activities completed within the past year, a description of
activities planned for the upcoming year, a map of plant communities within the
buffer boundary including square footage estimates of the areas of native
plantings and invasive or non-native vegetation, and other information as may
be requested by the City of Monticello. Until such time as the buffer is
accepted by the city, the developer shall be required to replant any buffer
vegetation that does not survive. After the city has accepted the buffer, if
the condition of the buffer area changes through natural processes not caused
by the property owner, the owner shall not be required to re-establish the
buffer area to meet the standards established in this subdivision.
      (8)   Encroachment in required setback and buffer areas.
         (a)   Patios and decks may encroach up to a maximum of six feet into
required structure setback areas. Porches may not encroach into required
structure setback areas. Any fence or retaining wall located within the
required structure setback area shall be designed and constructed so as to not
obstruct the flow of stormwater.
         (b)   Water quality ponds may encroach into required wetland buffer
areas, provided that the amount of buffer encroached upon does not exceed 50%
of the total area required for such ponding, and provided that the amount of
buffer encroached upon does not exceed 50% of the total area required for
buffering. These limitations may be exceeded where two-cell water quality
ponding is utilized.
         (c)   Wetlands and required wetland buffer areas must be kept free of
all structures and features, including fences and play equipment.
         (d)   Wetlands and required wetland buffer areas shall not be used for
outside storage of household or personal items, lawn equipment, furniture,
firewood, parts, yard waste, and the like.
      (9)   Variances.
         (a)   Requests for variances shall be made in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth in §
153.028(C).
         (b)   Variances shall only be granted when the standards and criteria
set forth in §
153.028(C) have been met. Variances shall not be granted which would circumvent
the intent and purposes of §
153.046(C)(4).
   (O)   Wild and Scenic Recreational River District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this district is to protect and preserve
the scenic, recreational, natural and historical values of the Mississippi
River in the city by carefully controlling development of this river corridor
consistent with the state Wild and Scenic River Act (M.S. §§ 103F.301 et seq.,
as they may be amended from time to time) and Minn. Rules 6105.0010 to
6105.0070; 6105.0150 to 6105.0250; and as applicable, the provision of
6120.2600 to 6120.3900.
      (2)   Designation of district. In order to preserve and protect the
Mississippi River and its adjacent land which possess scenic, recreational,
natural and historical values, the Mississippi River in the city has been given
a recreational river classification, and lands adjacent to the river are hereby
designated by land use districts, the boundaries of which are based upon the
Mississippi River Management Plan, Minn. Rules 6105.0800--6105.0960. The
provisions of §
153.046(E) shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of Monticello that
are denoted on the official zoning map as being within the Wild and Scenic
Recreational River overlay district. In case of conflict between the map and
the property descriptions and boundaries in Minn. Rules 6105.0910 and
6105.0950, the latter shall prevail.
      (3)   District application. The regulations and requirements imposed by
the WSRR overlay district shall be in addition to those established for the
base zoning districts which jointly apply. Under the joint application of
standards, the more restrictive requirements shall apply. Any person
contemplating development in the WSRR overlay district should review the base
district requirements with the Community Development Department to determine
which regulations will apply.
      (4)   Substandard lots. Any lot of record filed in the office of the
county recorder on or before July 1, 2000, which does not meet the dimensional
requirements of this chapter may be allowed as a building site subject to the
following:
         (a)   Such use is permitted in the land use district.
         (b)   The lot was in separate ownership on the date of enactment of
the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
         (c)   All sewage disposal and sewage setback requirements of the
shoreland overlay district are met.
         (d)   The lot is at least 10,000 square feet in area.
         (e)   If in a group of two or more contiguous lots under a single
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the lot width requirements of the
local regulation, such individual lot cannot be considered as a separate parcel
of land for purposes of sale or development, but must be combined with adjacent
lots under the same ownership so that the combination of lots will equal one or
more parcels of land, each meeting lot width requirements.
      (5)   Substandard uses. Any uses in existence on a lot of record filed in
the office of the county recorder on or before July 1, 2000, which are
permitted uses in accordance with §§
153.090 through
153.093, but do not meet minimum setbacks or other dimensional requirements of
the ordinance are to be considered as substandard uses. All substandard uses,
except for substandard signs, shall be allowed to continue subject to the
following conditions and exceptions:
         (a)   Any structural alteration or addition to a substandard use which
will increase the substandard dimension(s) shall not be allowed.
         (b)   Substandard signs shall be gradually amortized over a period of
time not to exceed five years once amortization has been initiated by the city.
      (6)   Allowable uses. The allowable uses in the WSRR overlay district
shall be as allowed in §§
153.090 through
153.093 for the underlying zoning classification provided the uses are in
conformance with the criteria for Urban River Class Standards in Minn. Rules
6120.3000, 6120.3100 and 6120.3200; and with the criteria for recreational
rivers in 6105.0100 subpart 3.
      (7)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Conditional uses allowable within the WSRR overlay district
shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(D), and interim use permits for uses or structures within WSRR overlay
district shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(E).
         (b)   Any structure(s) associated with a conditional use which are
proposed to be located upon steep slopes greater than 12% shall adhere to the
following conditions:
            1.   The structure, in a manner judged acceptable by the city,
shall be screened from view of the river and adjacent shorelands as much as
possible assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
            2.   An adequate conforming sanitary sewer and water system can be
established on the site.
            3.   All provisions of §
153.069 are adhered to as part of the conditional use permit.
      (8)   Recreational river land use subdistricts – standards, lot
dimensions, setbacks, and impervious surface requirements.
         (a)   Areas covered. The following areas of the city are covered by
this division: all areas of the wild and scenic recreational river district
within the city.
         (b)   Standards for lots. Lots within the WSRR overlay district shall
conform to the standards in Table 3-20. Where these standards conflict with the
standards of the base zoning districts, the more restrictive standard shall
prevail.
 
TABLE 3-20: WILD AND SCENIC LOT REQUIREMENTS
River Type   Lot Size Lot Width [1]
Wild         6 acres  300 feet
Scenic       4 acres  250 feet
Recreational 2 acres  200 feet
[1]: Lot width shall be met at both the OHW and at the required setback from
the OHW in accordance with §
153.010(B)(1)(i).
 
         (c)   Standards for principal structures. Principal structures within
the WSRR overlay district shall conform to the standards in Table 3-21. Where
these standards conflict with the standards of the base zoning districts, the
more restrictive standard shall prevail.
TABLE 3-21: WILD AND SCENIC PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS
TABLE 3-21: WILD AND SCENIC PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE SETBACKS
Front yard setback and setback from rights-of-way or roadway easements
(setbacks must be met from all roads when a lot is bounded by two or more
roadways)
   Arterial road                           30 feet
   Collector road                          30 feet
   Local road                              30 feet
   Landlocked parcel                       30 feet
                                             Unsewered Sewered
Side yard setbacks                            30 feet   10 feet
Rear yard setbacks                            50 feet   30 feet
Setback from the OHW of the Mississippi River 150 feet  100 feet
Setback from a bluff line                     75 feet   75 feet
Sewer setback from the OWH                    75 feet   75 feet
 
         (d)   Accessory structure setbacks. Accessory structures within the
WSRR overlay district shall conform to the standards in Table 3-22. Where these
standards conflict with the standards of the base zoning districts, the more
restrictive standard shall prevail.
 
TABLE 3-22: WILD AND SCENIC ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SETBACKS
                                              Unsewered Sewered
Setback from the OHW of the Mississippi River 75 feet   50 feet
Setback from a bluff line                     30 feet   30 feet
 
         (e)   Impervious surface requirements.
            1.   Impervious surfaces on lots within the WSRR overlay district
shall adhere to the following standards:
               a.   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25% of
the lot area.
               b.   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater
management, they must be designed and installed consistent with the field
office technical guide of the local soil and water conservation districts.
               c.   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
            2.   The provisions of division 1. above may be varied without a
variance if all of the following criteria and standards are met:
               a.   All structures and impervious surfaces are located on
slopes less than 12%. The physical alteration of slopes shall not be permitted
for the purpose of overcoming this limitation.
               b.   The site development is designed, implemented, and
maintained using the most applicable combination of comprehensive practices
that prevent flooding, pollutant, erosion and sedimentation problems consistent
with Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas: Best Management Practices for
Minnesota, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, October 1989, or as amended,
which is incorporated by reference, available at the state law library and not
subject to frequent change.
               c.   A site development, maintenance, and inspection plan
incorporating the comprehensive practices of this section is submitted and
approved by the city prior to the issuance of an impervious surfacing permit
and the plan is implemented.
               d.   The city may impose additional conditions determined
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (9)   Building height. The following minimum requirements shall be
observed in the WSRR overlay district:
         (a)   The maximum height of principal structures shall not exceed 35
feet, except that the maximum height for principal structures shall not exceed
25 feet when such structure is subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
Overlay District, in which case the requirements of the Shoreland District
shall apply.
         (b)   The maximum height of accessory structures shall not exceed 25
feet.
      (10)   Additional structure and use standards.
         (a)   Placement of structures. Structures shall not be located on
slopes greater than 12% except by conditional use permit as provided for in §
153.046(D)(7).
         (b)   Maximum density. The maximum density in the WSRR overlay
district shall not exceed one dwelling unit per lot.
         (c)   Multiple unit dwelling structures. Multiple-family dwelling
units shall meet the following additional standards:
            1.   Each building must be set back at least 200 feet from the
ordinary high water level;
            2.   Each building must have common sewage treatment and water
systems in one location and serve all dwelling units in the building; and
            3.   Watercraft docking facilities for each lot must be centralized
in one location and serve all dwelling units in the building (i.e. only one
docking facility per lot).
         (d)   Stormwater management. Subject to other more restrictive
limitations which may be imposed by this chapter, the following general and
specific standards shall apply:
            1.   General standards.
               a.   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces shall be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
               b.   Development shall be planned and conducted in a manner that
will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion
potential, and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to
retain sediment on the site.
               c.   When development density, topographic features, and soil
and vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference shall be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
manmade materials and facilities.
            2.   Specific standards.
               a.   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater
management, documentation shall be provided by a qualified individual that they
are designed and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of
the local soil and water conservation districts.
               b.   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters shall
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
         (e)   Special provisions for commercial, industrial, public/
semipublic, agricultural, and forestry.
            1.   Standards for commercial, industrial, public, and semipublic
uses.
               a.   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial,
public, or semipublic uses with similar needs for access to and use of public
waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters.
Subject to other more restrictive limitations which may be imposed by this
chapter, those uses with water-oriented needs shall meet the following
standards:
                  (i)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits,
setbacks, and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses shall be
designed to incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas
and structures;
                  (ii)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for
patrons must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions
of navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
                  (iii)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft
may use signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject
to the following general standards:
                     A.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for
signs may be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or
safety messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or
under a permit issued by the county sheriff.
                     B.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They shall only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
shall not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
shall not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and shall not
exceed 32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights
shall be shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters;
and
                     C.   Other outside lighting may be located within the
shore impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
               b.   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots
or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels
with public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary
high water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water
by vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
            2.   Agriculture use standards.
               a.   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are
permitted uses if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained
in permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan
(resource management systems) consistent with the field office technical guides
of the local soil and water conservation districts or the natural resources
conservation service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency.
                  (i)   The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted
agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the
ordinary high water level.
                  (ii)   The bluff impact zone is equal to the bluff and land
located within 20 feet from a bluff line.
               b.   Animal feedlots shall meet the requirements of this
chapter, as well as the following standards:
                  (i)   New feedlots shall not be located in the WSRR overlay
district; and
                  (ii)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that
are located within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level or within the
bluff impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or encroach on bluff impact zones.
               c.   Use of fertilizer, pesticides, or animal wastes within the
WSRR overlay district shall be done in such a way as to minimize impact on the
shore impact zone or public water by proper application or use of earth or
vegetation.
            3.   Forest management standard.
               a.   The harvesting of timber and associated reforestation must
be conducted consistent with the provisions of the Minnesota Nonpoint Source
Pollution Assessment--Forestry and the provisions of Water Quality in Forest
Management--Best Management Practices in Minnesota.
               b.   Use of fertilizer, pesticides, or animal wastes within the
WSRR overlay district shall be done in such a way as to minimize impact on the
shore impact zone or public water by proper application or use of earth or
vegetation.
            4.   Extractive use standards.
               a.   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use
site development and restoration plan shall be developed, approved, and
followed over the course of operation of the site. The plan shall address dust,
noise, possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify
actions to be taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts,
particularly erosion, and shall clearly explain how the site will be
rehabilitated after extractive activities end.
               b.   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery
shall be located consistent with setback standards for structures from the
ordinary high water level and from blufflines.
      (11)   Vegetative cutting. Selective cutting of trees in excess of four
inches in diameter at four feet height within the WSRR overlay district and
within 100 feet of the ordinary high water level and 20 feet landward of the
bluffline shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Clearcutting, except for any authorized public services such as
roads and essential services, shall not be permitted. Clearcutting for
essential services, such as telephone lines, substations, and related
structures, shall require a special permit issued by the City Council in
accordance with §
153.028(N).
         (b)   Cutting is spaced in several cutting operations and a continuous
tree cover is maintained, uninterrupted by large openings. In cases where the
existing tree cover has been interrupted by large openings in the past,
selective cutting may be performed so as to maintain a continuous tree cover in
the remaining wooded areas.
         (c)   The above cutting provisions shall not be deemed to prevent:
            1.   The removal of diseased or insect-infested trees, or of rotten
or damaged trees that present safety hazards.
            2.   Pruning understory vegetation, shrubs, plants, bushes, or
grasses, or harvesting crops, or cutting suppressed trees or trees less than
four inches in diameter at four-foot height.
         (d)   Except in cases where vegetative cutting has been approved as
part of a subdivision or other development, any person proposing vegetative
cutting shall apply to the city for a vegetative cutting permit. Application
forms for the permit shall be provided by the Community Development Department
and require the following information:
            1.   Name and address of applicant.
            2.   The name and address of the owner of the land.
            3.   The address and legal description of the land involved.
            4.   The purpose of the vegetative cutting.
            5.   A description of the type and amount of vegetation to be cut.
            6.   The highway, street, or streets, or other public ways in the
city upon and along which any material is to be hauled or carried.
            7.   An estimate of the time required to complete the vegetative
cutting.
            8.   A site plan showing the proposed cutting area.
            9.   A plan or statement demonstrating that the activity will in no
way jeopardize the public health, safety and welfare.
            10.   A statement that the applicant will comply with all
conditions prescribed by the city.
      (12)   Clearcutting restrictions. Clearcutting within the WSRR overlay
district shall be subject to the following standards and criteria:
         (a)   Clearcutting shall not be used as a cutting method where soil,
slope, or other watershed conditions are fragile and subject to injury.
         (b)   Clearcutting shall be conducted only where clearcut blocks,
patches, or strips are, in all cases, shaped and blended with the natural
terrain.
         (c)   The size of clearcut blocks, patches, or strips shall be kept at
the minimum necessary.
         (d)   Where feasible, all clearcuts shall be conducted between
September 15 and May 15. If natural regeneration will not result in adequate
vegetative cover, areas in which clearcutting is conducted shall be replanted
to prevent erosion and to maintain the aesthetic quality of the area. Where
feasible, replanting shall be performed in the same spring or the following
spring.
         (e)   Except in cases where clearcutting has been approved as part of
a subdivision or other development, any person proposing clearcutting shall
apply to the city for a clearcutting permit. Application forms for the permit
shall be provided by the Community Development Department and require the
following information:
            1.   Name and address of applicant.
            2.   The name and address of the owner of the land.
            3.   The address and legal description of the land involved.
            4.   The purpose of the clearcutting.
            5.   A description of the type and amount of clearcutting to be
conducted.
            6.   The highway, street, or streets, or other public ways in the
city upon and along which any material is to be hauled or carried.
            7.   An estimate of the time required to complete the vegetative
cutting.
            8.   A site plan showing the proposed cutting area.
            9.   A plan or statement demonstrating that the activity will in no
way jeopardize the public health, safety and welfare.
            10.   A statement that the applicant will comply with all
conditions prescribed by the city.
      (13)   Grading and filling. Any grading and filling conducted within the
WSRR overlay district shall require a permit and shall comply with the
following:
         (a)   The provisions of §
153.028(N) are satisfactorily met.
         (b)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is not
accessory to a permitted or conditional use shall not be allowed.
         (c)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is accessory
to a permitted or conditional use shall not be conducted without a grading and
filling permit from the zoning authority.
         (d)   Grading and filling of the natural topography which is accessory
to a permitted or conditional use shall be performed in a manner which
minimizes earth moving, erosion, tree clearing and the destruction of natural
amenities.
         (e)   Grading and filling of the natural topography shall also meet
the following standards:
            1.   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as feasible.
            2.   Temporary ground cover such as mulch is used and permanent
ground cover such as sod is planted.
            3.   Methods to prevent erosion and to trap sediment are employed.
         (f)   Excavation of material from, or filling in the river, or
construction of any permanent structures or navigational obstructions therein
is prohibited, unless authorized by a permit from the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be
amended from time to time.
         (g)   Draining or filling of wetlands as defined by this chapter shall
be expressly prohibited.
      (14)   Utility transmission lines. All utility transmission crossings of
land within the WSRR overlay district shall require a conditional use permit.
The construction of such transmission services shall be subject to the
standards and criteria of Minn. Rules 6105.0170 and 6105.0180.
      (15)   Public roads. In addition to such permits as may be required by
M.S. § 103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time, a conditional use
permit shall be required for any construction or reconstruction of new public
roads within the WSRR overlay district. Such construction or reconstruction
shall be subject to the standards and criteria of Minn. Rules 6105.0190 and
6105.0200. A conditional use permit shall not be required for marginal access
streets which are intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
      (16)   Land suitability. No land shall be subdivided which is determined
by the city or the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources to be
unsuitable by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock formation
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities or any
other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of the
future residents of the proposed subdivision or the city.
      (17)   Nonconforming use. All uses in existence prior to July 1, 2000,
which are lawfully permitted uses within the wild and scenic recreational river
district, but do not meet the minimum lot area, setbacks or other dimensional
requirements of this chapter shall be allowed to continue subject to the
following conditions and exceptions:
         (a)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming use
which will increase the substandard dimensions shall not be allowed.
         (b)   Substandard signs shall be gradually eliminated over a period of
time not to exceed five years from the date of enactment or amendment of this
division.
      (18)   Sewage treatment.
         (a)   Public system required. Publicly owned sewer systems must be
used.
         (b)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems. A nonconforming sewage
treatment system not meeting the requirements of applicable rules of the state
Department of Health, the state pollution control agency, specifically Minn
Rules Ch. 7080, for individual sewage treatment systems, and any other
applicable local government standards shall be brought into conformity or
discontinued within five years of the date of enactment of the Wild and Scenic
Recreational River District Ordinance from which this division is derived.
      (19)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the state
Department of Health and the state pollution control agency and administrative
procedures of this chapter. Private wells must be located, maintained, and
sealed in accordance with or in a more thorough manner than the water well
construction code of the state Department of Health.
      (20)   Plats. Copies of all plats within the Wild and Scenic Recreational
River District shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources within ten days of approval by the city. Approval of a plat
which is inconsistent with this division is permissible only if the detrimental
impact of the inconsistency is more than overcome by other protective
characteristics.
      (21)   Planned unit development. A planned unit development may be
allowed per the requirements of §
153.028(O) only when the proposed development provides a better means of
preserving agricultural land, open space, woods, scenic views, wetlands, and
other features of the natural environment than traditional subdivision
development. Planned unit developments shall be reviewed under the provisions
outlined in §
153.028(O), with the following additional criteria:
         (a)   Preliminary plans are approved by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources prior to their enactment by the City Council.
         (b)   A publicly owned sewer systems is used.
         (c)   Open space is permanently preserved. This may be accomplished
through the use of restrictive deed covenants, public dedications, granting of
scenic easements, or other equally effective and permanent methods.
         (d)   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility
for each cluster of homes.
         (e)   The only uses that shall be allowed within the development are
those allowed under §
153.028(O) and the underlying zoning district.
         (f)   Under the joint application of standards, the more restrictive
provisions of this chapter shall apply.
      (22)   Variances.
         (a)   Variances shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(C) with the following additional variance criteria:
            1.   Granting of the variance is not contrary to the purpose and
intent of this section and is consistent with Minn. Rules 6105.0010--6105.0250
and 6105.0800--6105.0960.
            2.   Granting of the variance will not allow any use which is
neither a permitted or conditional use in the land use district in which the
subject property is located.
         (b)   Exception: Where a setback pattern from the ordinary high water
level has already been established on both sides of a proposed building site,
the setback of the proposed structure may be allowed to conform to that
pattern. This provision shall apply only to lots which do not meet the
applicable minimum lot width requirement.
         (c)   Appeals from variance decisions on shoreland issues may be made
in accordance with the provisions of §
153.028(H) and also Minnesota Statutes.
      (23)   Notice to the DNR of proposed actions within the Wild and Scenic
Recreational River District.
         (a)   Notification of proposals.
            1.   For properties within the Wild and Scenic Recreational River
District, the Community Development Department shall notify the Commissioner of
the Department of Natural Resources of any application for a variance,
ordinance amendment (including proposed changes to district lines), conditional
use permits, PUDs, or plats inconsistent with the ordinance.
            2.   Notifications for ordinance changes and PUDs shall consist of
a copy of the proposed ordinance amendment(s), a copy of the proposed PUD, and
all other application materials as may be needed by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources or the commissioner’s designated representative
to fully understand the proposal.
            3.   Notifications for variances, plats or CUPs may consist simply
of the notice of the applicable public hearing, or if a public hearing is not
required, a copy of application materials as may be needed by the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources to fully understand the proposal.
            4.   Notification shall be sent so as to be received by the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources at least 30 days prior to
the planned hearing or meeting to consider the requested action.
         (b)   Notification of final decision. The Community Development
Department shall notify the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
of the city’s final decision on the proposed action within ten days of the
decision.
         (c)   Effective date of decision.
            1.   Decisions on variances, plats or CUPs become effective upon
completion of the applicable review process at the city level.
            2.   Decisions on PUDs and ordinance amendments within or affecting
the Wild and Scenic Recreational River District become effective upon the
happening of any of the following events, whichever first occurs:
               a.   The final decision taken by the city has previously
received certification of approval from the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources.
               b.   The city receives certification of approval from the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources after its final decision.
               c.   Thirty days have elapsed from the day the Commissioner of
the Department of Natural Resources received notice of the final decision, and
the city has received from the Commissioner neither certification of approval
nor notice of non-approval.
               d.   The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
certifies his approval within 30 days after conducting a public hearing.
         (d)   Hearing after non-approval. In case the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources gives notice of a PUD or proposed ordinance
amendment, either the applicant or Community Development Department may, within
30 days of said notice, file with the Commissioner a demand for a hearing. If
the demand for a hearing is not made within 30 days, the notice of non-approval
becomes final.
            1.   The hearing shall be held within 60 days of the demand and
after at least two weeks' published notice.
            2.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with M.S. §
103G.311, subds. 2, 6 and 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
            3.   The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources shall
either certify his approval or disapproval of the proposed action within 30
days of the hearing.
   (P)   Shoreland District.
      (1)   Statutory authorization and policy.
         (a)   Statutory authorization. This shoreland ordinance is adopted
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F, as
it may be amended from time to time, Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500 -
6120.3900, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter
462, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Policy. The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the City of
Monticello, Minnesota affects the public health, safety, and general welfare
not only by contributing to pollution of public waters, but also by impairing
the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and welfare to provide for the wise subdivision, use and
development of shorelands of public waters. The legislature of Minnesota has
delegated responsibility to local governments of the state to regulate the
subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of public waters and thus
preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and
natural environmental values of shorelands, and provide for the wise use of
waters and related land resources. This responsibility is hereby recognized by
the City of Monticello.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Jurisdiction.
            1.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands
of the public water bodies as classified in §
153.046(E)(4).
            2.   Shoreland shall include all land within 1,000 feet of the
ordinary high water level (OHWL) of a lake and 300 feet of a river and its
designated floodplain as depicted on the City of Monticello’s Official Zoning
Map.
            3.   Pursuant to Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500 -
6120.3900, no lake, pond, or flowage less than ten acres in size in
municipalities or 25 acres in size in unincorporated areas need be regulated in
a local government’s shoreland regulations. A body of water created by a
private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of
the governing body, be exempt from this chapter.
         (b)   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size
and shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
         (c)   Enforcement. The Community Development Department is responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the
provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with grants of permits, variances or conditional uses) shall be subject to the
remedies and penalties outlined in §
153.999.
         (d)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this overlay district shall be held to be minimum requirements
and shall be liberally construed in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
         (e)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
      (3)   Administration.
         (a)   Permits required.
            1.   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or
building additions (including but not limited to related activities such as
construction of decks or signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage
treatment systems, and all grading and filling activities as required by this
chapter. Application for a permit shall be made to the Community Development
Department pursuant to the applicable regulations in §§
153.025 through
153.028. The application shall include the necessary information so that the
Community Development Department can determine the site’s suitability for the
intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system will be provided.
            2.   A permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure
shall stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system shall
be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Determination of zoning compliance. The Community Development
Department, in reviewing a required permit, shall make a determination as to
whether the proposal is compliant with all provisions of §
153.046(F) Shoreland District. Any use, arrangement, or construction not
authorized by permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be
punishable as provided in §
153.999.
         (c)   Variances.
            1.   Variances shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(C) with the following additional requirements:
               a.   No variance shall circumvent the general purposes and
intent of the shoreland overlay district.
               b.   No variance may be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
               c.   The variance application must clearly demonstrate whether a
conforming sewage treatment system is present for the intended use of the
property. The variance, if issued, must require reconstruction of a
nonconforming sewage treatment system.
            2.   A copy of the notice for the public hearing(s) to consider a
variance must be sent to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources or the commissioner's designated representative and postmarked at
least ten days before the hearings.
            3.   A copy of all decisions granting variances to shoreland
regulations shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
            4.   Appeals from variance decisions on shoreland issues may be
made in accordance with the provisions of §
153.028(H) and also Minnesota Statutes.
         (d)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses allowable within shoreland
areas shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(D), and interim use permits for uses or structures within shoreland
areas shall be reviewed under the provisions outlined in §
153.028(E), with the following additional requirements:
            1.   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody
and the topographic, vegetation, and soils conditions on the site must be made
to ensure:
               a.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution
of public waters, both during and after construction;
               b.   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed
from public waters is limited assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
               c.   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
               d.   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project
will generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
            2.   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The Community
Development Department, upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the
purposes of this chapter, shall attach such conditions to the issuance of the
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
               a.   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
               b.   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
               c.   Special provisions for the location, design, and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas,
and vehicle parking areas.
            3.   Notification procedures.
               a.   A copy of the notice for the public hearing(s) to consider
a conditional use permit must be sent to the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources or the commissioner's designated representative and
postmarked at least ten days before the hearings.
               b.   A copy of all decisions granting a conditional use permit
subject to shoreland regulations shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner
of the Department of Natural Resources within ten days of such action.
         (e)   Proposed Shoreland District Amendments and PUDs.
            1.   Notification required. The Community Development Department
shall submit to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources (or the
commissioner's designated representative), a copy of any application for a
zoning amendment to §
153.046(E), or an application for a planned unit development (PUD) within the
shoreland district for certification. The materials shall be sent so as to be
received by the Commissioner at least 30 days prior to such hearing or meeting
to consider such action. The notice of application shall include a copy of the
proposed ordinances or amendment, or a copy of the proposed planned unit
development along with a description of the request.
            2.   Notification of final decision. The Community Development
Department shall notify the Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
of its final decision on the proposed action within ten days of the decision.
            3.   Effective date of decision. The ordinance amendment or PUD
becomes effective upon the happening of any of the following events, whichever
first occurs:
               a.   The final decision taken by the city has previously
received certification of approval from the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources.
               b.   The city receives certification of approval from the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources after its final decision.
               c.   Thirty days have elapsed from the day the Commissioner of
the Department of Natural Resources received notice of the final decision, and
the city has received from the Commissioner neither certification of approval
nor notice of non-approval.
               d.   The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
certifies his approval within 30 days after conducting a public hearing.
            4.   Hearing after non-approval. In case the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources gives notice of non-approval of an ordinance
amendment or PUD, either the applicant or Community Development Department may,
within 30 days of said notice, file with the Commissioner a demand for a
hearing. If the demand for a hearing is not made within 30 days, the notice of
non-approval becomes final.
               a.   The hearing shall be held within 60 days of the demand and
after at least two weeks' published notice.
               b.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with M.S. §
103G.311, subds. 2, 6 and 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
               c.   The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources
shall either certify his approval or disapproval of the proposed action within
30 days of the hearing.
      (4)   Shoreland classification system and land use districts.
         (a)   Shoreland classification system. The public waters of the City
of Monticello have been classified below consistent with the criteria found in
Minnesota Regulations, Part 6120.3300, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map
for Wright County, Minnesota. The Mississippi River is regulated by §
153.046(D) Wild and Scenic Recreational River District.
            1.   The shoreland area for the water bodies listed in divisions 2.
and 3. below shall be as defined in this chapter and as shown on the Official
Zoning Map.
            2.   Lakes.
               a.   Natural environment lakes.
                  (i)   Mud Lake (DNR ID: 86-68 P).
               b.   Recreational Development Lakes – RESERVED.
               c.   General development lakes.
                  (i)   Pelican Lake (DNR ID: 86-31 P).
                  (ii)   Long Lake (DNR ID: 86-69 P).
                  (iii)   Slough Lake (DNR ID: 86-78 P).
            3.   Rivers and streams.
               a.   Remote Rivers – RESERVED.
               b.   Forested Rivers – RESERVED.
               c.   Transition Rivers – RESERVED.
               d.   Agricultural Rivers – RESERVED.
               e.   Tributary streams.
                  (i)   Otter Creek.
                  (ii)   All protected watercourses in the City of Monticello
shown on the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Wright County, a copy of which
is hereby adopted by reference, that are not given a classification in
divisions a. through e. above shall be considered “tributary streams.”
         (b)   Land use district descriptions.
            1.   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in division
2. below and the delineation of a land use district’s boundaries on the
Official Zoning Map, must be consistent with the goals, policies, and
objectives of the comprehensive land use plan.
            2.   Land use in shoreland areas. Land uses on parcels within the
shoreland district shall be regulated by the underlying zoning district or by
Table 3-23 below, whichever is more restrictive.
TABLE 3-23: SHORELAND USES BY LAKE CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 3-23: SHORELAND USES BY LAKE CLASSIFICATION
Lake Classes in SPECIAL PROTECTION Districts (within the Wild and Scenic
Recreational River Overlay District)
Uses                    General Development Recreational Natural Environment
                                            Development
Forest management       P                   P            P
Sensitive resource      P                   P            P
management
Agricultural: cropland  P                   P            P
and pasture
Agricultural feedlots   C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Extractive use          C                   C            C
Single residential      C                   C            C
Mining of metallic      P                   P            P
minerals and peat
Lake Classes in LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL Districts (within the A-O, R-A, R-1,
R-2 or T- N Districts)
Single residential      P                   P            P
Semipublic              C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Extractive use          C                   C            C
Duplex, triplex, quad   P                   P            C
residential
Forest management       P                   P            P
Mining of metallic      P                   P            P
minerals and peat
Lake Classes in HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL Districts (within the R-3 or M-
H Districts)
Residential planned
unit developments       C                   C            C
(PUDs)
Single residential      P                   P            P
Surface water-oriented
commercial (as          C                   C            C
accessory to a
residential PUD)
Semipublic              C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Duplex, triplex, quad   P                   P            P
residential
Forest management       P                   P            P
Lake Classes in WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL Districts (within a Business
District AND includes a proposed water-oriented use)
Surface water-oriented  P                   P            C
commercial
Commercial planned unit C                   C            C
development
Public, semipublic      C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Forest management       P                   P            P
Lake Classes in GENERAL USE Districts (within a business or industrial
district)
Commercial              P                   P            C
Commercial planned unit C                   C            C
development
Industrial              C                   C            N
Public, semipublic      P                   P            C
Extractive use          C                   C            C
Parks and historic      C                   C            C
sites
Forest management       P                   P            P
Mining of metallic      P                   P            P
minerals and peat
(P) = Permitted Use, (C) = Conditional Use, and (N) = Prohibited Use
 
      (5)   Shoreland development standards.
         (a)   In general.
            1.   Except as may be specifically provided, no new lot shall be
created—by plat or by metes and bounds description—which does not meet the
minimum dimensional requirements outlined in §
153.046(E)(5).
            2.   No lot area shall be so reduced or diminished so that the
yards or other open spaces are smaller than prescribed herein, nor shall the
number of dwelling units be increased in any manner except in conformity with
the area regulations in this chapter.
            3.   The area of any lot shall not be reduced below the minimum
standards specified herein.
         (b)   Lot standards. Tables 3-23, 3-24, and 3-25 list the lot
standards for lands within the shoreland district.
            1.   Structure setbacks shall be measured from the ordinary high
water mark (OHW) or the highest known water level;
            2.   Lot widths shall be met at both the OHW and at the required
structural setback from the OHW.
            3.   Lot area shall be calculated based on land area above the OHW.
TABLE 3-24: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR SEWERED LAKES
Residential Lot Area (square feet)
Lake Class Lakeshore                  Non-Lakeshore
           Single Duplex Triplex Quad Single Duplex Triplex Quad
TABLE 3-24: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR SEWERED LAKES
Residential Lot Area (square feet)
Lake Class          Lakeshore                     Non-Lakeshore
                    Single Duplex Triplex Quad    Single Duplex Triplex Quad
Natural Environment 40,000 70,000 100,000 130,000 20,000 35,000 52,000  65,000
Recreational        20,000 35,000 50,000  65,000  15,000 26,000 38,000  49,000
Development
General Development 15,000 26,000 38,000  49,000  10,000 17,500 25,00 0 32,500
Residential Lot Width
Natural Environment 125    225    325     425     125    220    315     410
Recreational        75     135    195     255     75     135    190     245
Development
General Development 75     135    195     255     75     135    190     245
Setbacks (feet)
Lake Class          LAKESHORE LOTS (distances in feet)
                   Structure Setback from OHW    Shore Impact Zone from OHW
Natural Environment 150                           75
Recreational        75                            37.5
Development
General Development 50                            25
TABLE 3-25: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR UNSEWERED LAKES
Residential Lot Area (square feet)
Lake Class Lakeshore                  Non-Lakeshore
           Single Duplex Triplex Quad Single Duplex Triplex Quad
TABLE 3-25: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR UNSEWERED LAKES
Residential Lot Area (square feet)
Lake Class   Lakeshore                      Non-Lakeshore
             Single Duplex  Triplex Quad    Single Duplex  Triplex Quad
Natural      80,000 120,000 160,000 200,000 80,000 160,000 240,000 320,00 0
Environment
Recreational 40,000 80,000  120,000 160,000 40,000 80,000  120,000 160,000
Development
General      20,000 40,000  60,000  80,000  40,000 80,000  120,000 160,000
Development
Residential Lot Width
Natural      200    300     400     500     200    400     600     800
Environment
Recreational 150    225     300     375     150    265     375     490
Development
General      100    180     260     340     150    265     375     490
Development
Setbacks (feet)
 
                    LAKESHORE LOTS (distances in feet)
Lake Class          Structure Setback Shore Impact Zone On-site Sewage Setback
                    from OHW          from OHW          from OHW
Natural Environment 150               75                150
Recreational        100               50                75
Development
General Development 75                37.5              50
TABLE 3-26: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR RIVERS
            Residential Lot Width (feet)  Structure Shore Impact
River Class S250ingle Duplex Triplex Quad Setback   Zone         Sewage Setback
TABLE 3-26: SHORELAND LOT STANDARDS FOR RIVERS
            Residential Lot Width (feet)         Structure Shore Impact Sewage
River Class S250ingle Duplex   Triplex  Quad     Setback   Zone         Setback

Remote      300       450      600      750      200       100          150
Forested    200       300      400      500      150       75           100
Transition  250       375      500      625      150       75           100
Agricultur  150       225      300      375      50/100*   25/50*       75
al
Urban &     75/100*   115/150* 150/200* 190/250* 50/100*   25/50*       75
Tributary
* sewered/unsewered
 
         (c)   Non-residential district lot standards.
            1.   Minimum lot standards for non-residential zoned properties
shall be as dictated by the requirements for the underlying zoning district
classification.
            2.   All structures and septic systems within non-residential
districts shall comply with the structural setback standards for such features
as listed in Tables 3-24, 3-25 and 3-26.
         (d)   Bluff impact zones. Structures or facilities, except stairways
and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (e)   Height of structures.
            1.   No structures, except for churches and non-residential
agricultural structures, shall exceed 25 feet in height.
            2.   Detached accessory structures shall not exceed 15 feet in
height.
         (f)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs are encouraged to locate on lots or parcels without public water
frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public water frontage, must
either be setback double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be
substantially screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography,
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      (6)   Zoning and water supply/sanitary provisions.
         (a)   Design criteria for structures in the Shoreland District.
            1.   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance
with any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do
not exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is
placed or flood-proofed must be determined as follows:
               a.   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least
three feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the
ordinary high water level, whichever is higher;
               b.   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at
least three feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are
not available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the
ordinary high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine
effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to
establish a flood protection elevation. Under all three approaches, technical
evaluations must be done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with
parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the management of floodplain areas. If
more than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation
determined must be used for placing structures and other facilities; and
               c.   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest
floor placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure
is constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris, or incorporation of flood openings.
            2.   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one
water-oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback of
this chapter if this water-oriented accessory structure complies with the
following provisions:
               a.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in
height, exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250
square feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any
point;
               b.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary
high water level must be at least ten feet;
               c.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
               d.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must
not be enclosed or used as a storage area;
               e.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for
human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities; and
               f.   As an alternative for general development and recreational
development waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water-oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet provided the
maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to the
configuration of the shoreline.
            3.   Stairways, lifts, and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements:
               a.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width;
               b.   Landings for stairways and lifts must not exceed 32 square
feet in area;
               c.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
               d.   Stairways, lifts, and landings shall be constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, and be designed and built in a manner that
ensures control of soil erosion in conformance with the requirements of §
153.028(N);
               e.   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
               f.   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions a.
to e. are complied with in addition to the requirements of Minnesota
Regulations, Chapter 1341.
            4.   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that is inconsistent with State Historic
Preservation Office regulations.
            5.   Steep slopes. The Community Development Department must
evaluate possible soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public
waters before issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems,
roads, driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes. When
determined necessary, conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent
erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles,
and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming
summer, leaf-on vegetation.
         (b)   Shoreland alterations. Alterations of vegetation and topography
will be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix nutrients,
preserve shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping,
and protect fish and wildlife habitat.
            1.   Vegetation alterations.
               a.   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards that follow.
               b.   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for
agricultural and forest management uses as regulated in §
153.046(E)(6)(e)2. and §
153.046(E)(6)(e)3., respectfully, is allowed subject to the following
standards:
                  (i)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and
bluff impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation
clearing for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is
allowable as a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is
developed and approved by the soil and water conservation district in which the
property is located.
                  (ii)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes,
limited clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of
trees is allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling
site and to accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas,
access paths, beach and watercraft access areas, and permitted water-oriented
accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
                     A.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other
facilities as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is
not substantially reduced;
                     B.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
                     C.   The above provisions are not applicable to the
removal of trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety
hazards.
            2.   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
               a.   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways under
validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this Section must be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and
driveways.
               b.   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by §
153.046(E)(6)(c).
               c.   Notwithstanding divisions 2.a. and 2.b. above, a grading
and filling permit will be required for:
                  (i)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material
on steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
                  (ii)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material
outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
               d.   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered
to during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
                  (i)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8
wetland must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity
would affect the following functional qualities of the wetland:
                     A.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
                     B.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood
damage;
                     C.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
                     D.   Recreational use;
                     E.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
                     F.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as
historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or
others.
                  (ii)   This evaluation must also include a determination of
whether the wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or
approvals by other local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed
district, the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, or the United States
Army Corps of Engineers. The applicant will be so advised;
                  (iii)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a
manner that ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the
shortest time possible;
                  (iv)   Mulches or similar materials must be used for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
                  (v)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments
before they reach any surface water feature must be used;
                  (vi)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion
control standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the
local soil and water conservation districts and the United States Soil
Conservation Service;
                  (vii)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a
manner that creates an unstable slope;
                  (viii)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep
slopes must be reviewed by a qualified engineer for continued slope stability
and must not create finished slopes of 30% or greater;
                  (ix)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff
impact zones;
                  (x)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of
public waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner of the Department of
Natural Resources under M.S. Chapter 103G, as it may be amended from time to
time;
                  (xi)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they
are accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect
adjacent or nearby properties; and
                  (xii)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including
associated grading of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is
permitted if the finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one
foot vertical, the landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the
ordinary high water level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high
water level does not exceed three feet.
         (c)   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas.
            1.   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a
qualified engineer that all roads and parking areas are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
district, or other applicable technical materials.
            2.   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
            3.   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads,
and access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones
provided the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this
subpart are met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of
§
153.046(E)(6)(b)2. must be met.
         (d)   Stormwater management. The following general and specific
standards shall apply:
            1.   General standards.
               a.   When possible, existing natural drainage ways, wetlands,
and vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
               b.   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that
will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion
potential, and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to
retain sediment on the site.
               c.   Stormwater shall not be directed to wetlands without
sufficient pre-treatment as approved by the city.
               d.   When development density, topographic features, and soil
and vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
man-made materials and facilities.
            2.   Specific standards.
               a.   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25% of
the lot area.
               b.   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater
management, documentation must be provided by a qualified Engineer that they
are designed and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of
the local soil and water conservation districts.
               c.   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
         (e)   Special provisions for commercial, industrial, public/
semipublic, agricultural, forestry and extractive uses and mining of metallic
minerals and peat.
            1.   Standards for commercial, industrial, public, and semipublic
uses.
               a.   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial,
public, or semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of
public waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters.
Those uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
                  (i)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits,
setbacks, and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed
to incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
                  (ii)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for
patrons must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions
of navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
                  (iii)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft
may use signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject
to the following general standards:
                     A.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for
signs may be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or
safety messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or
under a permit issued by the county sheriff;
                     B.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters; and
                     C.   Other outside lighting may be located within the
shore impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
               b.   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots
or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels
with public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary
high water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water
by vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
            2.   Agriculture use standards.
               a.   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are
permitted uses if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained
in permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan
(resource management systems) consistent with the field office technical guides
of the local soil and water conservation districts or the United States Soil
Conservation Service. The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted
agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the
ordinary high water level.
               b.   Animal feedlots are prohibited.
            3.   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and
associated reforestation or conversion of forested use to a non-forested use
must be conducted consistent with the following standards:
               a.   Timber harvesting and associated reforestation must be
conducted consistent with the provisions of the Minnesota Non-point Source
Pollution Assessment-Forestry and the provisions of Water Quality in Forest
Management "Best Management Practices in Minnesota."
               b.   Forest land conversion to another use shall require
issuance of a conditional use permit subject to §
153.028(D) and adherence to the following standards:
                  (i)   Shore and bluff impact zones must not be intensively
cleared of vegetation; and
                  (ii)   An erosion and sediment control plan is developed and
approved by the local soil and water conservation district before issuance of a
conditional use permit for the conversion.
                  (iii)   Use of fertilizer, pesticides, or animal wastes
within shorelands must be done in such a way as to minimize impact on the shore
impact zone or public water by proper application or use of earth or
vegetation.
            4.   Extractive use standards.
               a.   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use
site development and restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed
over the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion, and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
               b.   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery
must be located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary
high water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
            5.   Mining of metallic minerals and peat. Mining of metallic
minerals and peat, as defined in M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended
from time to time, shall be a permitted use provided the provisions of M.S. §§
93.44 to 93.51, are satisfied.
         (f)   Water supply and sewage treatment.
            1.   Water supply. Water shall be supplied through the City of
Monticello municipal water system.
            2.   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must
be provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows:
               a.   Publicly-owned sewer systems shall be used for any new
development.
               b.   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated
and upgraded in accordance with the provisions division (P)(7) below.
      (7)   Nonconformities. All legally established nonconformities as of the
date of this chapter may continue, but they will be managed according to
applicable state statutes and the provisions of §§
153.105 through
153.110 for the subjects of alterations and additions, repair after damage,
discontinuance of use, and intensification of use; except that the following
standards will also apply in shoreland areas:
         (a)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
            1.   Lots of record in the office of the county recorder on the
date of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements
of §
153.046(P)(5)(b) may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot
size requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot
has been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
            2.   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before
any use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the board of adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
            3.   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of §
153.046(P)(5)(b), the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land
for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one
or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting
the requirements of §
153.046(P)(5)(b) as much as possible.
         (b)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
            1.   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height, and other
requirements of §
153.046(P). Any deviation from these requirements must be authorized by a
variance pursuant to §
153.046(E)(3)(c).
            2.   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a
structure not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level
if all of the following criteria and standards are met:
               a.   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks
were established;
               b.   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals
no reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary
high water level setback of the structure;
               c.   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level
does not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary
high water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
               d.   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not
roofed or screened.
      (8)   Special provisions for subdivision and platting in shoreland
districts.
         (a)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision,
including planned unit developments authorized under §
153.028(O), must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with
minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall
consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential,
steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities,
near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important
fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
         (b)   Consistency with other controls. Subdivisions must conform to
all official controls of this community. A subdivision will not be approved
where a later variance from one or more standards in official controls would be
needed to use the lots for their intended purpose. Each lot shall meet the
minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of §
153.046(E)(5), including at least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free
of limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two standard soil
treatment systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks must not be
approved.
         (c)   Information requirements. Sufficient information must be
submitted by the applicant for the community to make a determination of land
suitability. The information shall include at least the following:
            1.   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
            2.   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.02,
subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to time, to be shown on plats,
obtained from United States Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or
more accurate sources;
            3.   Adequate soils information from field investigations such as
soil borings, percolation tests, or other methods to determine suitability for
building and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot;
            4.   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply;
extent of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore
aquatic conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments, and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion,
both during and after construction activities;
            5.   Location of 100-year floodplain areas and floodway districts
from existing adopted maps or data; and
            6.   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level,
the “toe” and the “top” of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances
from the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.
         (d)   Dedications. When a land or easement dedication is a condition
of subdivision approval, the approval must provide easements over natural
drainage or ponding areas for management of stormwater and significant
wetlands.
         (e)   Platting. All subdivisions that create five or more lots or
parcels that are two and one-half acres or less in size shall be processed as a
plat in accordance with M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to
time. No permit for construction of buildings shall be issued for lots created
after these official controls were enacted unless the lot was approved as part
of a formal subdivision.
         (f)   Controlled access or recreational lots. Lots intended as
controlled accesses to public waters or for recreational use areas for use by
non-riparian lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed the sizing criteria
in §
153.046(E)(5)(b).
   (Q)   FBS: Freeway Bonus Sign District.
      (1)   Purpose. The City of Monticello recognizes the need for special
sign allowances along the I-94 corridor to allow for effective communication to
interstate travelers.
      (2)   District application. The provisions of this division (Q) shall
apply to all business and industrial lands within the jurisdiction of
Monticello that are denoted on the official zoning map as being within the
freeway bonus sign overlay district.
      (3)   Special freeway sign allowance.
         (a)   In the Freeway Bonus Sign District, the area of a freestanding
sign may not exceed 200 square feet each side with a maximum height of 32 feet.
         (b)   Double frontage lots within the Freeway Bonus Sign District
shall be allowed to have up to two free-standing signs subject to the following
conditions:
            1.   At least one of the two free-standing signs shall be a
monument sign which does not exceed 14 feet in height nor an overall size of
100 square feet.
            2.   The above size and height limitations for the second free-
standing sign shall apply even if both signs are monument signs.
            3.   The overall sign area maximum for the property as outlined in
§
153.064 shall still be met.
      (4)   LED illumination. In the Freeway Bonus Sign District, unshielded
LED (Light Emitting Diode) illumination may be used pursuant to the regulations
found in §
153.064(G)(7).
   (R)   DW: Drinking Water Supply Management Area. RESERVED.
   (S)   Special Use Overlay District.
      (1)   Restrictions on adult uses. With the adoption of this chapter, the
City of Monticello exercises its authority under M.S. § 617.242, subd. 7, as it
may be amended from time to time, and declares that these regulations supercede
the provisions of M.S. § 617.242, as it may be amended from time to time. As
such, adult uses as defined in this chapter shall be subject to the following
general provisions:
         (a)   Adult use. Principal activities shall be permitted only in those
areas with the BOTH required base zoning designation and the Special Use
Overlay District designation.
         (b)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241,
as it may be amended from time to time, are not permitted and are prohibited.
         (c)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use shall be
classified as an adult use/principal.
         (d)   Adult use/principal activities shall be prohibited from locating
in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
         (e)   Adult use/principal activities shall not be located on any
parcel that abuts or shares a property line with any of the following parcels
or land uses:
            1.   Residentially zoned property;
            2.   Agricultural land located in the neighboring township or in
the city that is designated in the comprehensive plan for residential use;
            3.   A licensed day care center;
            4.   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, middle, junior high, or senior high school;
            5.   A public library;
            6.   A public park;
            7.   A church;
            8.   Amusement places such as roller rinks, dance halls, and
bowling alleys;
            9.   Liquor sales;
         (f)   Adult use/principal activities shall be located at least 400
radial feet apart as measured from one another.
         (g)   Adult use/principal activity is a separate use and no two adult
use/principal activities shall be located in the same building or upon the same
property and each use shall be subject to all of the requirements of this
section.
         (h)   Adult use/principal activities shall adhere to the following
signing regulations:
            1.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only
identify the type of business which is being conducted;
            2.   Sign messages shall not contain material classified as
advertising;
            3.   Sign messages shall comply with the requirements of size and
number for the district in which they are located
         (i)   Adult use/principal activities shall be prohibited in
establishments where liquor is served.
         (j)   Adult use/principal activities shall be prohibited at any place
or event where minors are permitted.
      (2)   Adult-oriented uses – accessory.
         (a)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be allowed only as
regulated by §
153.092(D)(4).
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 825, passed 5-13-2024)
§ 153.047 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Swan River PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Swan River PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain properties for elementary and secondary school
activities and uses. The purpose of the district shall incorporate the Public
Values Statement of record, as may be amended, adopted jointly by the Planning
Commission and City Council as of January 27, 2014.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Swan River PUD
District shall be Elementary and Secondary School, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans and development agreement, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to elementary and secondary schools, and as identified by the
approved final stage PUD.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Swan River PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. Only where any
proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, the regulations
of the CCD, Central Community District shall apply.
      (5)   Changes. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, or building size, mass or
coverage, or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to PUD
under the terms of the §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (B)   Monticello High School PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Monticello High School PUD District is
to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District
for public school buildings and related land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Monticello High
School PUD District shall be schools, including pre-school, K-12, and related
administrative uses, subject to the approved Final Stage Development Plans
dated June 27, 2016, and development agreement dated July 22, 2016, as may be
amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to primary and secondary school uses, and as specifically
identified by the approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Monticello High School PUD District shall adhere
to the approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case
where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then
the regulations of the R-1, Single-family District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to PUD under the
terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (C)   Mills Fleet Farm PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Mills Fleet Farm PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
retail commercial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Mills Fleet Farm
PUD District shall be retail commercial uses as found in the B-4, Regional
Business District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans dated July 19, 2016, the amendment to Planned
Unit Development dated June 12, 2017, and development agreement dated July 25,
2016, amended October 24, 2016 and as may be amended. The introduction of any
other use from any district, including Conditional Uses in the B-4 District,
shall be reviewed under the requirements of §§
153.025 through
153.028 – Planned Unit Development for Development Stage PUD and Final Stage
PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to retail uses, and as specifically identified by the approved
final stage PUD plans, which shall hereby be incorporated by reference.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Mills Fleet Farm PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans, which shall hereby be incorporated by reference
and development agreement dated July 25, 2016. In such case where any proposed
improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the regulations of
the B-4, Regional Business District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (D)   Red Rooster PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Red Rooster PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for office-
commercial and industrial services land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Red Rooster PUD
District shall be office-commercial uses as found in the B-2, Limited Business
District and industrial services uses as found in the I-1, Light Industrial
District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved Final
Stage Development Plans dated May 23, 2016, and development agreement dated
July 25, 2016, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to office-commercial uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans, including limited non-commercial self-storage
as an accessory use. Accessory buildings on the site may be utilized for indoor
storage for enterprises which may or may not occupy principal use space on the
property. No outdoor storage of materials or equipment shall be permitted.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Red Rooster PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the B-2, Limited Business District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (E)   Spaeth Industrial Park PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Spaeth Industrial Park PUD District is
to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District
for industrial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Spaeth Industrial
Park PUD District shall be indoor industrial uses as found in the I-2, Heavy
Industrial District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans dated July 24, 2017 and development agreement
dated July 24, 2017, as may be amended. The introduction of any other use from
any district, including Conditional Uses in the I-2 District, shall be reviewed
under the requirements of §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD. Industrial Self-Storage, as defined by the Monticello Zoning
Ordinance.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to industrial uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans, but shall not include outdoor storage or other
activities.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Spaeth Industrial Park PUD District shall adhere
to the approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case
where any proposed improvement or use is not addressed by the Final Stage PUD,
then the regulations of the I-2, Heavy Industrial District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
      (6)   Subdivisions within the Spaeth Industrial Park PUD District may
occur following the city’s Subdivision Ordinance procedures for preliminary and
final plat. Subdivisions may create lot lines which result in common wall
buildings, and in all cases shall adhere fully to requirements of the city’s
Building Code and other applicable regulations. Any such subdivision shall be
accompanied by restrictive covenants or similar instruments that ensure common
maintenance of all exterior site and building components of the PUD and an
amendment to the development contract.
   (F)   Camping World PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Camping World PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
vehicle sales, service, and display commercial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Camping World PUD
District shall be vehicle sales, display, and vehicle service and repair –
minor and major, as found in the B-3 Highway Business District of the
Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved Final Stage Development
Plans dated August 14, 2017, and development agreement dated August 14, 2017,
as may be amended. The introduction of any other use from any district,
including Conditional Uses in the B-3 District, shall be reviewed under the
requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to retail uses, and as specifically identified by the approved
final stage PUD plans. Accessory buildings on the site may be utilized for
indoor uses for enterprises of commercial tenants which are identified as
permitted principal uses in the B-3, Highway Business District.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Camping World PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the B-3, Highway Business District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (G)   Autumn Ridge PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Autumn Ridge PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Autumn Ridge PUD
District shall be single-family residential uses as found in the “T-N”,
Traditional Neighborhood Zoning District, subject to the approved Final Stage
Development Plans and development agreement dated September 11, 2017, as may
be amended. The introduction of any other use from any district, including
Conditional Uses in the T-N District, shall be reviewed under the requirements
of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses as allowed in the T-N District, and as
specifically identified by the approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Autumn Ridge PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement or use is not addressed by the Final Stage PUD, then
the regulations of the T-N, Traditional Neighborhood District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (H)   Affordable Self-Storage PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Affordable Self-Storage PUD District is
to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District
for commercial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Affordable Self-
Storage PUD District shall be self-storage uses as found in the B-3, Highway
Business District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans dated September 11, 2017 and development
agreement dated September 11, 2017, as may be amended. The introduction of any
other use from any district, including Conditional Uses in the B-3 District,
shall be reviewed under the requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory use shall be those commonly accessory and
incidental to industrial uses, and as specifically identified by the approved
final state PUD Plans, but shall not include outdoor storage or other
activities, with the following exception:
         (a)   Storage boxes or “pods”, or similar temporary structures
manufactured specifically for the purposes of portable self-storage use, may be
permitted to be displayed for rental on the site, provided such structures meet
the following conditions:
            1.   Only one such storage box shall be displayed in any individual
PUD District.
            2.   No such storage shall be placed within 100 feet of a
residential zoning district, or closer to the street right of way than any
building, or within 10 feet of any other lot line.
            3.   No such storage box shall be stacked to a height greater than
nine feet from existing grade on which it sits.
            4.   Any such storage shall be placed only on a paved surface.
            5.   No such storage box shall be placed within any driveway,
required landscaping area, parking space, or other space required by the
approved PUD plan for site circulation and/or operations.
            6.   Any such storage shall meet all requirements for fire and
other emergency vehicle access, including access to fire hydrants or other
utilities.
            7.   Storage of such structures for delivery or use by renters
shall be located off-site.
            8.   Delivery of such structures to the renters shall occur from
the off-site storage location, and not from this District.
            9.   No such temporary/portable structure shall at any time be used
for storage of any goods on the property in this zoning district, and shall
only serve as display of such boxes for rental to users off-site.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development in the Affordable Self-Storage PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement or use is not addressed by the Final Stage PUD, then
the regulations of the B-3, Highway Business District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (I)   Rivertown Suites PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Rivertown Suites PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
multiple-family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Rivertown Suites
PUD District shall be multiple-family residential uses as found in the R-4,
Medium-High Density Residential District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
subject to the approved Final Stage Development Plans dated July 23, 2018 and
development agreement dated September 7, 2018, as may be amended. The
introduction of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the
requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Rivertown Suites PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the R-4, Medium-High Density Residential District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (J)   Groveland 5th Addition – Monticello RV PUD.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Groveland 5th Addition- Monticello RV
PUD District is to provide for the development of certain real estate subject
to the District for Vehicle Sales and Rental uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Groveland 5th
Addition - Monticello RV PUD District shall be vehicle sales and rental uses as
found in the B-3, Highway Business District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
subject to the approved Final Stage PUD Plans dated March 25, 2019, and
development agreement dated March 25, 2019, as may be amended. The introduction
of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the requirements of
the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to vehicle sales and rental uses, and as specifically identified
by the approved final stage PUD plans. This shall include the addition of an
accessory sanitary sewage dump station facility for recreational vehicles and
LP bulk fuel tank as approved by the City Council on July 22, 2019.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Groveland 5th Addition - Monticello RV PUD
District shall adhere to the approved Final Stage PUD Plans and development
agreement. In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
Final Stage PUD Plans, then the regulations of the B-3, Highway Business
District, shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, § 153.028(O)(10). The city may
require that substantial changes in overall use of the PUD property be
processed as a new project, including a zoning district amendment.
   (K)   Deephaven PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Deephaven PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
multiple-family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Deephaven PUD
District shall be multiple- family residential uses as found in the R-4,
Medium-High Density Residential District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
subject to the approved Final Stage Development Plans dated July 21, 2020, and
development agreement dated January 13, 2020, as may be amended. The
introduction of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the
requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O) – Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Deephaven PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the R-4, Medium-High Density Residential District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (L)   UMC PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the UMC PUD District is to provide for the
development of certain real estate subject to the District for industrial land
uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the UMC PUD District
shall be indoor industrial uses as found in the IBC, Industrial and Business
Campus District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans dated September 14, 2020, and development
agreement dated February 24, 2020, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to industrial uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans, but shall not include outdoor storage or other
activities.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the UMC PUD District shall adhere to the approved
final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where any
proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the IBC, Industrial and Business Campus District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (M)   Nuss Truck and Equipment Industrial PUD.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Nuss Truck and Equipment PUD District
is to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the
District for industrial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Nuss Truck and
Equipment PUD District shall be machinery/truck repair and sales as found in §
153.091(F)(11) subject to the approved final stage development plans dated
April 19, 2021, the amended landscaping plan dated May 10, 2021, and
development agreement dated January 25, 2021, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to industrial uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Nuss Trucking Industrial PUD District shall
adhere to the approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such
case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD,
then the regulations of the I-1, Industrial District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (N)   Edmonson Ridge PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Edmonson Ridge PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Edmonson Ridge PUD
District shall be single-family residential uses as found in the TN,
Traditional Neighborhood District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject
to the approved Final Stage Development Plans dated December 14, 2020, and
development agreement dated December 14, 2020, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those listed in the TN,
Traditional Neighborhood District, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans, and as specially regulated by restrictive
covenant as recorded against the lots zoned Edmonson Ridge PUD District.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Edmonson Ridge PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the TN, Traditional Neighborhood district shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, § 153.028(O)(10). The city may
require the substantial changes in overall use of the PUD property be processed
as a new project, including a zoning district amendment.
   (O)   StorageLink Monticello PUD.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the StorageLink Monticello PUD District is
to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the B-3
(Highway Business) District for commercial land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the StorageLink
Monticello PUD District shall be commercial self-storage as found in §
153.091(F)(11) of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved
Final Stage Development Plans dated April 26, 2021, and development agreement
dated April 26, 2021, as may be amended.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to commercial uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans, but shall not include outdoor storage or other
activities, with the following exception:
         (a)   Storage boxes or “pods”, or similar temporary structures
manufactured specifically for the purposes of portable self-storage use, may be
permitted to be displayed for rental on the site, provided such structures meet
the following conditions:
            1.   Only one such storage box shall be displayed in any individual
PUD District.
            2.   No such storage shall be placed within 100 feet of a
residential zoning district, or closer to the street right of way than any
building, or within ten feet of any other lot line.
            3.   No such storage box shall be stacked to a height greater than
nine feet from existing grade on which it sits.
            4.   Any such storage shall be placed only on a paved surface.
            5.   No such storage box shall be placed within any driveway,
required landscaping area, parking space, or other space required by the
approved PUD plan for site circulation and/or operations.
            6.   Any such storage shall meet all requirements for fire and
other emergency vehicle access, including access to fire hydrants or other
utilities.
            7.   Storage of such structures for delivery or use by renters
shall be located off-site.
            8.   Delivery of such structures to the renters shall occur from
the off-site storage location, and not from this District.
            9.   No such temporary/portable structure shall at any time be used
for storage of any goods on the property in this zoning district, and shall
only serve as display of such boxes for rental to users off-site.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the StorageLink Monticello PUD District shall adhere
to the approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case
where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then
the regulations of the B-3 (Highway Business) shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (P)   Stony Brook Village PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Stony Brook PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the district for two-
family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Stony Brook PUD
District shall be two-family residential uses as found in the R-2 Single and
Two-Family Residential District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to
the approved final stage development plans dated August 23, 2021, and
development agreement dated August 23, 2021, as may be amended. The
introduction of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the
requirements of §
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses, and as specifically identified by the
approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Stony Brook PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the R-2, Single and Two-Family Residential District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, exterior
building materials or colors, lot coverage, or any other change, the proposer
shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (Q)   Monticello Lakes PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Monticello Lakes PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
multiple-family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Monticello Lakes
PUD District shall be a maximum of 200 units of multiple-family residential
uses as found in the R-4 Medium and High Density Residential District of the
Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the approved final stage development
plans dated December 6, 2021, and development agreement dated December 13,
2021, and plans as amended and approved on March 13, 2023, subject to the
conditions of approval imposed by City Council Resolution No. 2023-23, and as
may be amended. The introduction of any other use or change in density shall be
reviewed under the requirements of §
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses as listed in the R-4 District, and as
specifically identified by the approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Monticello Lakes PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the R-4, Medium and High Density Multiple-Family Residential
District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, exterior
building materials or colors, lot coverage, or any other change, the proposer
shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (R)   Block 52 PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the PUD, Block 52 First Addition Planned
Unit Development District is to provide for the development of certain real
estate subject to the District for mixed land uses consistent with the
direction of the Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan chapter of the
Comprehensive Plan and the specific uses and improvements identified in the
Final PUD Plans dated July 11, 2022 as may be property amended.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal commercial uses in the proposed
mixed-use building shall be limited to permitted and conditional uses allowed
within the CCD, Central Community District. Additionally ground floor
commercial uses along Broadway shall accommodate office uses on the street
level, an element of flexibility from the Downtown Small Area Plan. Residential
uses shall be permitted uses on the upper floors (non-street-level), per Final
PUD plans for the Block 52 PUD District.
      (3)   The introduction of any other use from any district shall be
reviewed under the requirements of the PUD requirements and process.
      (4)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those specifically
identified by the approved final stage plans for each approved project.
      (5)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Block 52 PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage plans and development agreement. In such case where any
proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD plans, such
improvement shall only be considered with an amendment to the final stage plans
per the process specified in the ordinance.
      (6)   Amendments. Where changes to any proposed project in the PCD are
proposed in the manner of use, density, site plan, development layout, building
size, mass, or coverage, or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an
amendment to the approved final stage PUD plan under the terms of the
Monticello Zoning Ordinance. The city may require that changes in overall use,
density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage, or
any other change of the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a
zoning district amendment.
      (7)   Variations from plans. The Community Development Department shall
determine whether any proposed variation from the approved Final PUD plans
shall constitute a PUD Adjustment or PUD Amendment. The Community Development
Department shall make this determination narrowly, favoring a full Amendment
process in the case of uncertainty.
   (S)   Twin Pines PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Twin Pines PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the District for
multiple-family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Twin Pines PUD
District shall be multiple- family residential uses as found in the R-4,
Medium-High Density Residential District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
subject to the approved final stage development plans dated October 7, 2022 and
development agreement dated February 28, 2022, as may be amended. The
introduction of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the
requirements of §
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to residential uses as specifically identified by the approved
final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Twin Pines PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the final stage PUD, then the
regulations of the R-4, Medium-High Density Residential District shall apply.
      (5)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (T)   Haven Ridge 2nd Addition PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Haven Ridge 2nd Addition PUD District
is to provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the
District for single-family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Haven Ridge 2nd
Addition PUD District shall be single-family residential uses as found in the
R-1, Single-Family Residential District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance,
subject to the approved Final Stage Development Plans dated June 7, 2022, and
development agreement dated July 25, 2022, as may be amended, and the amendment
to Planned Unit Development approved August 28, 2023. The introduction of any
other use from any district shall be reviewed under the requirements of § 
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD and Final
Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to single- family residential uses, as specifically identified
by the approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Haven Ridge 2nd Addition PUD District shall
adhere to the approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement.
Specific to the single-family dwellings in the District, the following
requirements shall apply:
         (a)   The PUD amendment is conditioned on meeting the terms of the
original PUD, including adherence to the city’s T-N, Traditional Neighborhood
zoning lot standards and setbacks, in the absence of a PUD design element
addressing the other items in this list. Those standards include the following:
            1.   25 foot front setbacks, with six feet side yards and 20 feet
rear yards.
            2.   Building sizes of 934 square feet finished, and 1,704 square
feet finishable area.
            3.   Garage square footage of at least 463 square feet.
            4.   Roof pitches of at least five to 12.
            5.   Brick/stone on front facade equal to at least 15% of all front
facing surfaces; or a minimum of 10% brick/stone in combination with board and
batten, shakes, corbels, or other substantiative facade features with a total
exceeding 20% of the front facade.
            6.   Livable portions of the home exposed to the front street no
less than 40% of the width of the structure.
            7.   Usable front porches or similar features, consistent with
those shown on the provided plans, or greater.
            8.   Tree planting (including trees of at least 2.5 inches caliper
planting size) in the front yards of the proposed lots.
            9.   Driveways standards per R-1.
            10.   Building plans drawn from those submitted as a part of the
application for PUD Amendment, as modified by these conditions, or models found
by the Community Development Department to be substantively similar in size and
design, and other components.
      (5)   In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
final stage PUD, then the regulations of the R-1, Single-Family Residential
District shall apply.
      (6)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (U)   Country Club Manor Second, Third, and Fourth Additions PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Country Club Manor Second, Third, and
Fourth Additions PUD District is to provide for the development of certain real
estate subject to the District for mixed residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Country Club Manor
Second, Third, and Fourth Additions PUD District shall be two-family
residential uses in Country Club Manor Second Addition, replatted as Country
Club Manor Third Addition, and Country Club Manor Fourth Addition, subject to
the approved final stage development plans, for the Second Addition, dated July
7, 2022, and development agreement dated September 26, 2022, as may be amended;
together with PUD Development Plans for the Fourth addition dated 2024, and
development contract dated 2024. The introduction of any other use from any
district shall be reviewed under the requirements of §
153.028(O) - Planned Unit Developments for Development Stage PUD.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to the various residential uses, as specifically identified by
the approved final stage PUD plans.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the County Club Manor Second, Third, and Fourth
Additions PUD District shall adhere to the approved final stage PUD plans and
development agreement.
      (5)   The specific flexibility and conditions of the Country Club Manor
Fourth Addition PUD District shall be as follows:
         (a)   The district's development will include the construction of Tee
Box Way, a public street cul-de-sac extending from Tee Box Trail including the
extension of public sidewalk and public utilities for all parcels proposed to
be developed within the plat.
         (b)   The minimum setbacks shall be as follows:
            1.   Front:
               a.   Twenty-one feet to right-of-way line for Lots 1-6; and
               b.   Twenty-five feet to right-of-way line for Lots 7-22.
            2.   Side: six feet.
            3.   Rear: 25 feet.
         (c)   Buildings are required to meet the PUD Development Plans
approved on March, 25, 2024.
         (d)   Developer shall not be required to extend individual natural gas
services to individual units.
         (e)   Prior to any individual lot sale, a Homeowners' Association
shall be established providing for access to the public street and sidewalk,
common ownership of Lot 23, Block 1, and the management and maintenance of
common property and easements in a form to be approved by the city.
         (f)   As a condition of the district's approval, a deed restriction
shall be recorded against all lots within the plat which prohibits the sale of
the individual lots until the establishment of the Homeowners' Association
required under division (5)(e) above.
      (6)   The specific flexibility and conditions of the Country Club Manor
Second and Third Addition PUD District shall be subject to the approved Final
Stage PUD Plans and the Development Contract and Planned Unit Development
Agreement.
      (7)   In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
PUD Development Plans for either plat, then the regulations of the R-
3 Residential District shall apply to the remainder of County Club Manor
Second, Third, and Fourth Additions.
      (8)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of § 153.028(O). The city may require that substantial changes in
overall use of the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a
zoning district amendment.
   (V)   Great River PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Great River PUD District is to provide
for the development of certain real estate subject to the district for multi-
family residential land uses.
      (2)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Great River PUD
District shall be multiple family residential uses on the subject property,
subject to the approved Final Stage Development Plans dated November 11, 2023,
and development agreement dated November 21, 2023, as may be amended. The
introduction of any other use from any district shall be reviewed under the
requirements of § 153.028(O).
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to the various residential uses, as specifically identified by
the approved final stage PUD plans. For the Great River PUD, storage and
keeping of commercial vehicles, equipment, and related materials of residents
of the district shall be an allowed accessory use within detached garage spaces
as approved on the Final Stage PUD plans. No such storage or equipment shall be
permitted within the principal residential structure.
      (4)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Great River PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement.
      (5)   In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
final stage PUD, then the regulations of the R-4 Residential District shall
apply.
      (6)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of the §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (W)   Big River 445 PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Big River 445 PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the Planned Unit
Development District for mixed-commercial land uses.
      (2)   Phased development. The Big River 445 PUD District will be
developed in phases. Each phase shall be subject to review under the
requirements of §
153.028(O)(9), and to the amendment of this section.
      (3)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Big River 445 PUD
District shall be those uses listed as permitted and conditional uses in the B-
4 Regional Business District of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, subject to the
approved Final Stage PUD Development Plans dated ____, and development
agreement dated April 8, 2024, and subject to the conditions of approval
imposed by City Council Resolution 2024-32, and to approve Final Stage PUD
Development Plans as included in the City Council report of October 28, 2024,
and development agreement dates September 9, 2024, Big River Second Addition,
and subject to the conditions of approval imposed by City Council resolutions
and as may be further amended. The introduction of any other use or change in
density shall be reviewed under the requirements of § 153.028(O)(9)(b).
      (4)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory
and incidental to the various commercial uses, as specifically identified by
the approved Final Stage PUD Development Plans for each phase.
      (5)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Big River 445 PUD District shall adhere to the
approved final stage PUD plans and development agreement.
      (6)   The specific flexibility and conditions of the Big River 445 PUD
District shall be as follows.
         (a)   The first phase of the district's development will include the
construction of the looped private street from the easterly access abutting the
west line of Lot 2, Block 1, Big River Addition to the west boundary of the
plat with the T intersections at each end extending to Chelsea Road as depicted
in the plans, together with the public improvements, private sidewalks and
private utilities serving Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Big River Addition, as well as
private utilities for all parcels proposed to be developed abutting Chelsea
Road, and all other improvements identified on the approved phasing plan of the
Final Stage PUD.
         (b)   The PUD provides flexibility from the Subdivision Ordinance
requirement that all lots have access to a public street. A legal document
shall be recorded with the final plat providing access to the private street
and common sidewalks which extend to Chelsea Road, and the management and
maintenance of common property including stormwater, signage, landscaping, and
easements for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Big River Addition, and Outlot A, in a
form to be approved by the city.
         (c)   An executed and recordable shared parking easement for Lots 1
and 2, Block 1, Big River Addition shall be recorded with the final plat in a
form approved by the city.
         (d)   The final stage PUD architectural plans for Lot 2, Block 1, Big
River Addition are dated 12/18/2023 as "Option 2," and the architectural plans
for Lot 1, Block 1, Big River Addition are dated 02/23/2023.
         (e)   Shared free-standing signage and landscaping shall be as per
approved Final Stage PUD Development Plans.
         (f)   Flexibility in the total area and location of wall signage for
each individual principal building within the PUD shall be as per approved
Final Stage PUD Development Plans for each lot.
         (g)   The location and widths of internal lot line drainage and
utility easements are as per the approved plat of Big River 445.
         (h)   An executed and recordable easement and stormwater maintenance
agreement for Lots 1 and 2, Block 1, Big River Addition and Outlot A shall be
recorded with the final plat in a form approved by the city.
         (i)   Future phases of the PUD shall be reviewed for additional site
amenities, including seating, walking and rest areas.
         (j)   The district will include and incorporate the Final Development
Plans for Lot 2, Block 1 of Big River 445 Second Addition, as included in the
report of October 28, 2024 and subject to the conditions of approval per City
Council resolution.
         (k)   The district will include and incorporate the Final Development
Plans for Lot 4, Block 1 of Big River 445 Second Addition, as included in the
report of October 28, 2024 and subject to the conditions of approval per City
Council resolution.
      (7)   In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
final stage PUD, then the regulations of the B-4 Regional Business District
shall apply throughout.
      (8)   Where there are any conflicts in the allowed uses or required
performance standards between the Big River 445 PUD District and the B-
4 Regional Business District, the requirements of the Big River 445 PUD
District and its associated plans shall prevail.
      (9)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
   (X)   Cedar Street Storage PUD District.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Cedar Street Storage PUD District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the Planned Unit
Development District for commercial self-storage land uses.
      (2)   Phased development. The Cedar Street Storage PUD District will be
developed in a single phase.
       (3)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Cedar Street
Storage PUD District shall be commercial self-storage, as defined in the
Monticello Zoning Ordinance, along with administrative offices, subject to the
approved Final Stage PUD Development Plans dated July 3, 2024, and development
agreement dated June 24, 2024, and subject to the conditions of approval
imposed by City Council Resolution No. 2024-53, and as may be further amended.
The introduction of any other use or change in density shall be reviewed under
the requirements of §
153.028(O)(9)(b).
      (4)   Accessory uses. No other accessory uses shall be permitted in the
Cedar Street Storage PUD District, nor shall any outdoor storage be allowed.
      (5)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Cedar Street Storage PUD District shall adhere to
the approved Final Stage PUD plans and development agreement.
      (6)   The specific flexibility and conditions of the Cedar Street Storage
PUD District shall be as follows.
         (a)   Multiple principal buildings are permitted on the single parcel
in the district.
         (b)   The PUD provides flexibility from building setback requirements,
particularly along the south boundary of a zero setback.
         (c)   Parking for the facility shall be informal and scattered
throughout the district as required by tenants.
         (d)   Free-standing signage and landscaping shall be as per approved
Final Stage PUD Development Plans.
         (e)   No outdoor storage shall be permitted within the PUD.
      (6)   In such case where any proposed improvement is not addressed by the
Final Stage PUD, then the applicant shall seek a PUD Amendment per the
processes of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance and as directed by the Community
Development Department.
      (7)   Where there are any conflicts in the allowed uses or required
performance standards between the Cedar Street Storage PUD District and any
other applicable zoning regulations, the requirements of the Cedar Street
Storage PUD District and its associated plans shall prevail.
      (8)   Amendments. Where changes to the PUD are proposed in the manner of
use, density, site plan, development layout, building size, mass, or coverage,
or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an amendment to the PUD under
the terms of §
153.028(O)(10). The city may require that substantial changes in overall use of
the PUD property be processed as a new project, including a zoning district
amendment.
(Ord. 763, passed 9-13-2021; Ord. 765, passed 10-25-2021; Ord. 767, passed 12-
13-2021; Ord. 779, passed 7-11-2022; Ord. 784, passed 8-22-2022; Ord. 799,
passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 800, passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 807, passed 8-14-2023; Ord.
809, passed 8-28-2023; Ord. 816, passed 11-13-2023; Ord. 822, passed 3-25-2024;
Ord. 823, passed 4-8-2024; Ord. 829, passed 6-24-2024; Ord. 834, passed 10-28-
2024)
§ 153.048 POINTES AT CEDAR DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the PCD, Pointes at Cedar District is to
provide for the development of certain real estate subject to the district for
mixed land uses consistent with the direction of the Pointes at Cedar Small
Area Plan chapter of the Comprehensive Plan and consistent with The Pointes at
Cedar Ordinance No. 776, adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Permitted principal uses in the Pointes at Cedar
District shall be those identified in the Pointes at Cedar Zoning District and
on the PCD Zoning Map. The introduction of any other use from any district
shall be reviewed under the requirements of the PCD ordinance requirements and
process.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be those commonly accessory and
incidental to the principal uses, as specifically identified by the approved
development stage plans for each approved project.
   (D)   District performance standards. Performance standards for the
development of any lot in the Pointes at Cedar District shall adhere to the
approved development stage plans and development agreement. In such case where
any proposed improvement is not addressed by the development stage PCD plans,
such improvement shall only be considered with an amendment to the development
stage plans per the process specified in the ordinance.
   (E)   Amendments. Where changes to any proposed project in the PCD are
proposed in the manner of use, density, site plan, development layout, building
size, mass, or coverage, or any other change, the proposer shall apply for an
amendment to the approved development stage PCD plan under the terms of the PCD
ordinance text and requirements. The city may require that substantial changes
in overall use of the PCD property be processed as a new project, including a
zoning district amendment.
(Ord. 776, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
FINISHING STANDARDS
§ 153.060 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Section organization. The Monticello landscaping and screening
standards are organized into the following main divisions:
      (1)   Division (B), Purpose and Intent. Sets out the purpose and intent
for the standards;
      (2)   Division (C), General Requirements for Landscaping. Includes the
applicability provisions, requirements for landscaping plans, and standards for
new plantings;
      (3)   Division (D), Landscaping Plan Requirements. Outlines the specific
information that must be supplied to the city anytime a landscape plan is
required by this chapter;
      (4)   Division (E), Standards for Site Landscaping. Introduces standards
for foundation plantings around some buildings;
      (5)   Division (F), Alternative Landscaping Plan. Includes the procedures
and standards for review of alternative landscaping plans;
      (6)   Division (G), Standards for Vehicular Use Area Landscaping.
Includes the standards for landscaping around the perimeter and within
vehicular use areas;
      (7)   Division (H), Standards for Perimeter Buffers. Includes the
landscaping buffer standards applied to the edges of some base zoning
districts;
      (8)   Division (I), Standards for Required Screening. Includes the
screening requirements for site features like refuse, loading, and service
areas ;
      (9)   Division (J), Zoning Specific Landscaping Standards. Includes
specific landscaping standards specific to zoning district.
      (10)   Division (K), Landscaping Installation and Maintenance Standards.
Includes the other standards for landscaping installation, timing, maintenance,
monitoring for compliance, and incentives.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose of this section to promote and
protect the public health, safety and general welfare by providing for the
planting and maintenance of trees, shrubs, and other plants within the city.
The intent of this section is to promote this purpose by:
      (1)   Ensuring and encouraging the planting, maintenance, restoration and
survival of trees, shrubs, and groundcover;
      (2)   Ensuring the protection of community residents and visitors from
personal injury and property damage, and the protection of the city from
property damage, caused or threatened by the improper planting, maintenance or
removal of trees, shrubs, or other plants;
      (3)   Mitigating against erosion and sedimentation;
      (4)   Reducing stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith;
      (5)   Preserving and protecting the water table and surface waters;
      (6)   Reducing audible noise from automobiles and land uses;
      (7)   Restoring soils and land denuded as a result of construction or
grading;
      (8)   Increasing the tree canopy to provide shade and moderate the effect
of urban heat islands;
      (9)   Limiting glare created by exterior lighting;
      (10)   Reducing visual pollution from the urban environment and
increasing privacy between incompatible uses;
      (11)   Protecting and enhancing property values and aesthetic qualities;
      (12)   Helping to differentiate streets and other areas of the public
realm from private lands;
      (13)   Providing additional improvements to air quality through the
carbon dioxide uptake process provided by trees and landscaping; and
      (14)   Providing visual screening, where appropriate.
   (C)   General requirements for landscaping.
      (1)   Applicability of landscaping standards.
         (a)   General. Except as exempted by §
153.060(C)(1)(b) below, the standards in §
153.060 shall apply to all development in the city.
         (b)   Exemptions. Development in the CCD shall be exempt from the
perimeter vehicular use area landscaping standards in §
153.060(F)(3).
         (c)   Landscape plan. To ensure compliance with the standards of this
section, a landscape plan demonstrating how landscaping will be planted on a
development site shall be included as a part of any application when required
by the Community Development Department.
      (2)   Planting standards. Plantings provided in accordance with this
section shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Deciduous canopy or shade trees shall be a minimum of two
caliper inches in size at the time of planting, as determined in the American
Standard for Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1-2004, as amended.
         (b)   Evergreen canopy trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height
above ground level at the time of planting.
         (c)   Understory or ornamental trees shall have a caliper of one-and-
one half inches at time of planting, as determined in the American Standard for
Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1-2004, as amended.
         (d)   Deciduous or evergreen shrubs shall be upright in nature and be
a minimum of 24 inches in height at the time of planting.
         (e)   In cases where an aggregate caliper inch (ACI) requirement is
utilized to derive a required amount of vegetation, and the ACI figure includes
a fraction, an applicant may:
            1.   Utilize a tree or trees with a caliper inch measurement
exceeding the minimum size at time of planting standard of §
153.060(C) in order to meet the required ACI; or
            2.   Round the ACI figure upwards until the figure corresponds with
a whole number of trees meeting the minimum size at time of planting standard.
When trees exceeding the minimum size at time of planting standard are
proposed, the minimum calipers of such trees shall be clearly noted on the
Landscaping Plan.
         (f)   In cases where application of landscaping requirements result in
a fraction in the number of shrubs to be provided, the minimum number of shrubs
or trees to be provided shall be rounded upwards to the next highest whole
number.
         (g)   All landscape plant materials shall conform to the latest
version of the American Standard of Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1, as amended).
Plant material shall be of standard quality or better, true to name and type of
species or variety.
         (h)   The use of native, drought tolerant vegetation is encouraged to
reduce dependency upon irrigation.
         (i)   To curtail the spread of disease or insect infestation in a
plant species, new tree plantings shall comply with the following standards:
            1.   When fewer than 20 trees are required on a site, at least two
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions.
            2.   When more than 20 but fewer than 40 trees are required to be
planted on site, at least three different species shall be utilized, in roughly
equal proportions.
            3.   When 40 or more trees are required on a site, at least four
different species shall be utilized, in roughly equal proportions.
            4.   Nothing in this division shall be construed so as to prevent
the utilization of a larger number of different species than specified above.
         (j)   Required species.
            1.   All trees used in site developments shall be indigenous to the
appropriate hardiness zone and physical characteristics of the site.
            2.   All deciduous trees proposed to satisfy the minimum
requirements of this policy shall be long-lived hardwood species.
      (3)   Existing vegetation.
         (a)   It is the policy of the City of Monticello to preserve the
natural forest and woodland areas throughout the city; and with respect to
specific site development, to retain, as far as practicable, substantial tree
stands which should be incorporated into the site.
         (b)   Existing healthy, well-formed canopy and understory trees as
well as healthy shrubs shall be credited toward the requirements of this
section, provided the vegetation meets the minimum size standards of this
chapter, is protected before and during development of the site in accordance
with §
153.061(B), Tree Protection During Construction, and is maintained thereafter
in a healthy growing condition.
      (4)   Stabilization. All required landscape planting areas and required
yards shall be stabilized and maintained with lawn, ground covers, mulches, or
other approved materials to prevent soil erosion and allow rainwater
infiltration.
      (5)   Berms.
         (a)   The slope of all berms shall not exceed a two-to-one ratio
(horizontal to vertical), shall have a top width at least one-half the berm
height, and a maximum height of four feet above the toe of the berm.
         (b)   All berms, regardless of size, shall be stabilized with a ground
cover or other suitable vegetation.
         (c)   Berms proposed to be placed along street right-of-way shall be
designed and constructed to provide adequate sight distances at intersections
and shall not impair safe operation of vehicles.
         (d)   Berms shall in no case damage the roots or trunks of existing
healthy vegetation designated to be preserved.
      (6)   Easements. Nothing except groundcover shall be planted or installed
within any underground or overhead utility, drainage, gas easement, or within
three feet of a fire protection system without the consent of the utility
provider, easement holder, or the city, as appropriate.
      (7)   Ground cover when no landscaping or site plan is required. All
areas not otherwise improved in accordance with approved site or landscaping
plans shall be seeded or sodded with lawn cover, except for managed natural
landscapes as defined in M.S. § 412.925. Other exceptions to this criterion may
be approved by the Community Development Department as follows:
         (a)   Undisturbed areas containing existing viable natural vegetation
which can be maintained free of foreign and noxious plant materials.
         (b)   Areas designated as open space or future expansion areas
properly planted and maintained with prairie grass.
         (c)   Use of mulch materials such as bark, rock mulch over four mil
poly, and wood chips in support of shrubs and foundation plantings.
   (D)   Landscaping plan requirements.
      (1)   Detailed landscape plans shall be required as specified in this
chapter and in all cases where site plan approval is specified by either this
chapter or the subdivision ordinance.
         (a)   The landscape plan should illustrate planned development on the
site; and
         (b)   The landscape plan shall be produced on a separate sheet or
sheets from other required plans such as grading, drainage, and utility plans.
      (2)   Detailed landscape plans shall include the following information:
         (a)   In general.
            1.   Name and address of developer/owner.
            2.   Name and address of architect/designer.
            3.   Date of plan preparation.
            4.   Dates and description of all revisions.
            5.   Name of project or development.
            6.   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at one inch equals 50
feet or less).
            7.   North point indication.
         (b)   Site analysis.
            1.   Boundary lines of property with dimensions based upon
certified survey.
            2.   Name and alignment of proposed and existing adjacent on-site
streets.
            3.   Location of existing and proposed utility rights-of-way,
easements, and lines (water, gas, electric).
            4.   Location of existing and proposed building.
            5.   Topographic contours of the minimum interval of two feet,
extending at least 100 feet beyond the site boundaries.
            6.   Location of existing and proposed parking facilities,
including curbing detail and traffic island delineators.
            7.   Location of existing and proposed water bodies.
            8.   Location of existing and proposed sidewalks, trail corridors,
and fire lanes.
            9.   Other existing or proposed conditions which would be expected
to affect landscaping.
            10.   Percentage of gross site area not covered by structures and
pavement and percentage of gross site area covered by pervious and impervious
surfaces.
         (c)   Landscape data.
            1.   Planting schedule (table) containing symbols, quantities,
common names, botanical names, sizes of plant material, root specification
(b.r., B & B, potted, etc.) and special planting instructions.
            2.   Existing trees and shrubbery, locations, common names, and
approximate size.
            3.   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature
crown diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
            4.   Typical sections in details of fences, tie walls, planter
boxes, tot lots, picnic areas, berms, and the like.
            5.   Typical sections of landscape islands and planter beds with
identification of materials used.
            6.   Details of planting beds and foundation plantings.
            7.   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored
through the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
            8.   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective
areas in square feet.
            9.   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any.
            10.   Exterior lighting plan (as applicable).
   (E)   Standards for site landscaping.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. Site landscaping material is intended to soften
the visual impact of building foundations and provide for the even dispersal of
trees across a development site.
      (2)   No exceptions. The site landscaping provisions of §
153.060(H) shall be required for all development.
      (3)   Distinguished from other required landscaping. Site landscaping,
for the purpose of this section, is exclusive of required perimeter buffer and
screening landscaping. Plantings required to meet vehicular use area and
perimeter vehicular use area landscaping standards can be counted towards
meeting site landscaping requirements.
      (4)   Site landscaping standards. Site landscaping shall be supplied in
the amounts identified in Table 4-4: Required Site Landscaping Plantings. Site
landscaping shall meet the minimum size standards for new planting specified in
§
153.060(C)(2), Planting Standards.
TABLE 4-4: REQUIRED SITE LANDSCAPING PLANTINGS
Use Type [1] Required Plantings Per Site [2][3][4]
TABLE 4-4: REQUIRED SITE LANDSCAPING PLANTINGS
Use Type [1]                            Required Plantings Per Site [2][3][4]
General Standards
Single-family detached and Multi-family 4.0 ACI of canopy trees OR
dwellings with less than five (5) units [7]
[5] [6]
                                        16.0 ACI of canopy trees (including at
                                        least 3 evergreen trees) per acre + at
Multi-Family Dwellings with five (5) or least 2 shrubs per each 10 feet of
more units                              building perimeter, or as may be
                                        otherwise specified in the zoning
                                        district
                                        14.0 ACI of canopy trees (including at
Civic & Institutional Uses              least 2 evergreen trees) per acre + at
                                        least 1 shrubs per each 10 feet of
                                        building perimeter
                                        10.0 ACI of canopy trees (including at
Office & Commercial Uses                least 1 evergreen tree) per acre + at
                                        least 2 shrubs per each 10 feet of
                                        building perimeter
                                        4.0 ACI of canopy trees (including at
                                        least 1 evergreen tree) per acre + at
Industrial Uses                         least 1 shrub per every 10 feet of a
                                        building wall facing a public right-of-
                                        way
District Specific Standards
TN District lot standards
(all plantings must be in the front or  See §
side yards, and all shrub and flower    153.060(J)(2)
plantings must be in the front yard)
CCD lot standards                       See §
                                        153.060(J)(3)
IBC District lot standards              See §
                                        153.060(J)(4)
NOTE: ACI = Aggregate Caliper Inches
[1]: See Table 5-1, Uses By District.
[2]: At least ½ of the required shrubs shall be of an evergreen variety.
[3]: Each evergreen tree meeting the minimum size standards of this section
shall count as two caliper inches towards the total number of required canopy
tree caliper inches.
[4]: Credits towards required landscaping are available for the retention of
non-specimen trees per the provisions of §
153.61(D), Tree Preservation Incentives.
[5]: Required landscaping trees shall be planted within the boulevard.
[6]: Lots in the T-N District shall not adhere to these standards, but instead
to the specific standards listed in §
153.61(J)(2).
[7]: Required Plantings for corner lots shall be double the listed requirements
(8.0 ACI of canopy trees)
 
      (5)   Shrub placement. Required shrubs shall be placed around the
building perimeter, a minimum of three feet from the building, with emphasis
placed on screening building foundations visible from the public right-of-way.
Required shrubs may be planted up to ten feet from the building, or up to 15
feet from the building if there is a sidewalk located between the planting area
and the building wall.
      (6)   Tree placement. Trees serving as site landscaping shall be
dispersed across a site in accordance with good planting practice and the
following priority listing:
         (a)   In yards between a building façade and a street right-of-way
where no vehicular use area landscaping is required;
         (b)   Between a building and an adjacent lot with an existing use that
provides more than 50% of the vegetative material associated with a required
perimeter buffer;
         (c)   Between a building façade and an abutting lot with the same or a
more intense zoning district classification (where no perimeter buffering is
required);
         (d)   Within open-space set-aside areas with no existing or reforested
trees;
         (e)   Adjacent to on-site areas of pedestrian or vehicular circulation
where no other vegetative material is required (e.g., drive-thrus or stacking
lanes); or
         (f)   Other areas near accessory structures or accessory uses.
   (F)   Alternative landscaping plan.
      (1)   Purpose. In cases where development conditions require a deviation
from the landscaping standards in this section or the tree protection standards
in §
153.061, Tree Protection, an alternative landscaping plan shall be required.
Submission of an an alternative landscaping plan shall be required for managed
natural landscape. Nothing in §
153.060(F) shall prohibit a development configuration that meets or exceeds the
landscaping and tree protection standards in this chapter or the allowances of
M.S. § 412.925.
      (2)   Justification. Alternative plans, materials, or methods may be
justified due to:
         (a)   Natural conditions, such as streams, natural rock formations, or
topography;
         (b)   The likelihood that landscaping material would be ineffective at
maturity due to topography, placement, or other existing site conditions;
         (c)   Lot size or configuration;
         (d)   The presence of utility or other easements;
         (e)   The potential for interference with public safety;
         (f)   Installation and maintenance of managed natural landscapes; and
         (g)   Other situations where strict adherence to the landscaping or
tree protection standards in this Chapter are determined to be impractical by
the Community Development Department.
      (3)   Allowable deviations. The Community Development Department shall
approve any managed natural landscape that satisfies the definition thereof in
M.S. § 412.925. The Community Development Department may also approve any
alternative landscape plan if it meets the purpose and intent of §
153.060, Landscaping and Screening, or §
153.061, Tree Protection, as appropriate. Allowable deviations from the
standards of this section include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Reduced planting rates due to public facilities. An adjustment
to planting locations or reduction of up to 20% in the type or total number of
required caliper inches may be allowed when underground connections to public
facilities, public utilities, or public easements or right-of-way cause
difficulty in meeting the required standards.
         (b)   Reduction in standards due to nature of parcel. A reduction in
the count, spacing, or species variety standards by up to 20% may be allowed
where the reduction is desirable in terms of protection of existing natural
resources, better consistency with the goals of the comprehensive plan, or a
site design that exceeds the quality of what would otherwise result under a
strict application of the standards in this chapter, in the opinion of the
Community Development Department.
         (c)   Installation of managed natural landscapes and/or a native
landscapes restoration plan.
            1.   Installation of a managed natural landscape shall be allowed
when in conformance with the definitions of M.S. § 412.925.
            2.   Managed natural landscapes shall not be exempt from any
applicable minimum planting requirements of this chapter for required site
landscaping, perimeter buffer yard, required screening, and vehicular use area
plantings.
            3.   For managed natural landscapes, property owners are encouraged
to review Minnesota Board of Soil and Water Conservation natural landscape
resources and meet with representatives of the Community Development Department
prior to developing the alternative landscaping plan.
            4.   For native landscape restoration, a reduction of up to 10% in
the type or total number of required caliper inches may be allowed where the
reduction is desirable as an incentive to encourage the use of native plantings
and/or the restoration of native plantings on lands dedicated for open space.
         (d)   Planting on adjacent or alternative sites. In cases where
required plantings cannot be easily sited on the subject parcel, alternative
locations on adjacent or nearby parcels may be proposed.
      (4)   Alternative landscape plan informational requirements. Alternative
landscape plans shall provide the same information required by a general
landscape plan as outlined in §
153.060(D).
   (G)   Standards for vehicular use area landscaping. Except where exempted by
§
153.060(G)(1) below, all vehicular use areas shall include landscaping both
within the interior of the vehicular use area and around its perimeter, as a
means of mitigating the parking area’s microclimate and visual impacts.
Vehicular use area landscaping, including perimeter vehicular use areas, may be
counted toward overall site landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Exemptions. The following uses shall be exempt from the
requirements to provide vehicular use area landscaping:
         (a)   Single-family detached residential development;
         (b)   Two- to four-family dwellings;
         (c)   Off-street surface vehicular use areas with four or fewer
spaces;
         (d)   Parking structures; and
         (e)   Vehicle display areas for commercial vehicle sales and rental
uses.
      (2)   Interior vehicular use area landscaping standards.
         (a)   Where islands are proposed for drainage and stormwater
management, such islands shall be landscaped in accordance with this section.
         (b)   All vehicular use areas shall provide and maintain landscaped
planting areas within the interior of the vehicular use area in accordance with
this section.
         (c)   Configuration. Interior planting areas shall be designed in
accordance with the following standards:
            1.    Islan ds shall be locat ed at the end of parki ng bays and
have a mini mum size of 180 squa re feet when adja cent to singl e load ed
parki ng spac es, and a mini mum size of 360 square feet when adjacent to
double loaded parking spaces (see Figure 4-1: Interior Parking Islands) .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1930.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1932.png]
            2.    The maximum length of a parking bay to be bounded by interior
planting islands shall be in accordance with Table 4-1.
TABLE 4-1: LANDSCAPED ISLAND REQUIREMENTS
Use Type Maximum Number of Parking Stalls Between Islands
TABLE 4-1: LANDSCAPED ISLAND REQUIREMENTS
Use Type                              Maximum Number of Parking Stalls Between
                                      Islands
Residential Uses
Multi-family Uses                     12 stalls between islands
Commercial, Civic, and Institutional Uses
Commercial Uses                       24 stalls between islands
Civic & Institutional Uses            24 stalls between islands
Industrial Uses
Industrial & Business Campus District 24 stalls between islands
Uses
All Other Industrial Uses             50 stalls between islands
 
            3.   Landscaped planting areas shall be distributed throughout the
parking area for the purpose of heat abatement.
            4.   Driveway and primary drive aisle medians shall have a minimum
width of four feet for medians containing shrubs and six feet for medians
containing both shrubs and understory trees.
            5.   Each interior planting island shall contain at least one
canopy or understory tree per every 180 square feet, or portion thereof, of the
total landscape island area.
            6.   Shrubs shall be planted within landscaping islands at a
minimum rate necessary to ensure that at least 25% of the total land area
occupied by landscaping islands is planted with shrubs.
         (b)   Protection of planting areas. Except as exempted by the
Community Development Department, all planting areas shall be protected from
vehicle damage by the installation of curbing, wheel stops, or other comparable
methods. This standard shall not prohibit the use of planting areas as on-site
stormwater management devices.
      (3)   Perimeter vehicular use area landscaping standards. Where a
vehicular use area serving a use subject to these standards abuts a street
right-of-way, vacant land, or any other development (except another vehicular
use area), perimeter landscaping strips shall be provided and maintained
between the vehicle use area and the abutting right-of-way or property line in
accordance with the following standards (perimeter vehicular use area
landscaping counts towards overall required site landscaping, see division (E)
(3)).
         (a)   Location.
            1.   Perimeter landscaping strips shall be located on the same land
where the vehicular use area is located, and shall be placed to assure
visibility and safety of pedestrians on the public street, as well as those
within the vehicular use area.
            2.   Perimeter landscaping strips may not be placed within future
street rights-of-way as may be identified on the City’s Official Map.
         (b)   Minimum width. When a vehicular use area is located within 50
feet of a street right-of-way, the perimeter landscaping shall be located
within a planting strip at least six feet wide. In all other instances, the
strip shall be the minimum width necessary to assure required landscaping is
not damaged by vehicles or other on-site activity. In no instance shall the
strip be less than three feet wide.
         (c)   Protection of landscaping strip. Except as exempted by the
Community Development Department, the perimeter landscaping strip shall be
protected from vehicle damage by the installation of curbing, wheel stops,
extra width in the landscaping strip, or other comparable methods. This
standard shall not prohibit the use of perimeter landscaping strips as on-site
stormwater management devices.
         (d)   Required Materials (see Figure 4-3). Each perimeter landscaping
strip shall include at least eight aggregate caliper inches (ACI) of canopy
trees per 100 linear feet of landscaping strip, and the remaining ground shall
be landscaped (sod, mulch, etc).
         (e)   Adjacent to perimeter buffers. Perimeter landscape strips
associated with a vehicle use area may be credited towards perimeter buffer
standards [See §
153.060(H), Standards for Perimeter Buffers], provided the minimum buffer
standards of this section are met.
         (f)   Adjacent to off-street surface parking on other lots. Where two
or more off-street surface vehicular use areas are located adjacent to one
another, but upon different lots, no perimeter landscaping strip shall be
required between the two vehicular use areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1934.png]
      (4)    Incentives for improved design.
          (a)   The total aggregate caliper inch requirements for canopy and
understory trees in §
153.060(F) may be reduced by 5% when:
            1.    At least 65% of the provided parking is located to the side
or rear of the building;
            2.   At least 30% of the total required parking is subject to a
shared parking agreement; and
            3.   When pervious parking surfacing is used for 20% or more of the
total vehicular use area.
         (b)   The above incentives may be combined to achieve a cumulative
reduction in the amount of required tree ACI.
   (H)   Standards for perimeter buffers.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. Perimeter landscape buffers are intended to
mitigate potential negative effects of different contiguous uses.
      (2)   Applicability. Except for adjoining single-family detached
residential uses, adjoining commercial and industrial uses occurring within the
same zoning district boundary, and uses in the CCD district, all development
shall provide a perimeter landscape buffer to separate it from uses in a
different use classification in accordance with Table 4-2: Buffer Types, and
Table 4-3: Buffer Type Application.
      (3)   Types of buffers. Table 4-2: Buffer Types, describes four different
buffering types in terms of their function, opacity, width, and planting
requirements. Where a particular buffer type is required in Table 4-3: Buffer
Type Application, the requirement may be met with the combination of minimum
buffer width and minimum screening requirements specified under either Option 1
or Option 2. Where an option utilizing a fence or wall is selected, the fence
or wall shall comply with the standards of Section 4.3, Fences and Walls.
TABLE 4-2: BUFFER TYPES
ACI=AGGREGATE CALIPER INCHES
                Minimum Screening Requirements Within the Perimeter Buffer
                [1][2][3][4]
Buffer Type and Option 1: Minimum Width of 20 Option 2: Minimum Width of 10
Configuration   feet                          feet [5]
TABLE 4-2: BUFFER TYPES
ACI=AGGREGATE CALIPER INCHES
                          Minimum Screening Requirements Within the Perimeter
                          Buffer [1][2][3][4]
Buffer Type and           Option 1: Minimum Width of Option 2: Minimum Width of
Configuration             20 feet                    10 feet [5]
TYPE A - BASIC BUFFER
This perimeter buffer
functions as basic edge
demarcating individual    2 ACI of canopy trees + 10 ACI of understory trees +
properties with a slight  15 small shrubs per 100 linear feet
visual obstruction from
the ground to a height of
ten feet.
TYPE B – AESTHETIC BUFFER
This perimeter buffer
functions as an
intermittent visual
obstruction from the      8 ACI of canopy trees + 10 2 ACI of canopy trees + 14
ground to a height of at  ACI of understory trees +  ACI of understory trees +
least 20 feet, and        15 small shrubs per 100    35 small shrubs per 100
creates the impression of linear feet                linear feet
special separation
without eliminating
visual contact between
uses.
TYPE C – SEMI-OPAQUE BUFFER
This perimeter buffer                                One 4-foot high berm or
functions as a semi-      12 ACI of canopy trees +   one 4-foot high solid
opaque screen from the    14 ACI of understory trees fence + 2 ACI of canopy
ground to at least a      + 25 small shrubs per 100  trees + 16 ACI of
height of six feet.       linear feet                understory trees per 100
                                                     linear feet
TYPE D – OPAQUE BUFFER
This perimeter buffer
functions as an opaque
screen from the ground to 18 ACI of canopy trees +
a height of at least six  20 ACI of understory trees One 6-foot high solid
feet. This type of buffer + 55 small shrubs per 100  fence + 12 ACI of canopy
prevents visual contact   linear feet                trees per 100 linear feet
between uses and creates
a strong impression of
total separation.
[1]: Any required perimeter buffer width can be reduced to five feet with the
provision of a solid masonry wall at least five feet in height along with ten
large shrubs per every 100 linear feet.
[2]: Perimeter buffer widths (but not vegetation amounts) may be reduced in
accordance with §
153.028(G) upon approval of an Alternate Landscape Plan under the provisions of
§
153.060(F) if adhering to these requirements is not possible.
[3]: In cases where an adjacent use is designed for solar access, understory
trees can be substituted for canopy trees.
[4]: Required plantings shall conform to the planting standards outlined in §
153.060(C)(2).
[5]: Fences and walls shall comply with the standards in §
153.062, Fences and Walls.
 
      (4)   Determination of required buffer type. Table 4-3 specifies the type
of perimeter landscape buffer that new development shall provide between it and
adjacent property, based on the uses present on the development site and that
on the adjacent property. The buffer type is indicated by a letter
corresponding to one of the four buffer types depicted in Table 4-2, Buffer
Types.
TABLE 4-3: BUFFER TYPE APPLICATION
             Existing Use Type on Abutting Land [1]
Proposed Use Single-Family All Other   Civic and     Office and
Type         Residential   Residential Institutional Commercial Industrial Uses
                                       Uses          Uses
TABLE 4-3: BUFFER TYPE APPLICATION
              Existing Use Type on Abutting Land [1]
Proposed Use  Single-Family All Other   Civic and     Office and Industrial
Type          Residential   Residential Institutional Commercial Uses
                                        Uses          Uses
Single-family n/a           A           B             C          D
residential
All other     A             n/a         A             B          D
residential
Civic and
institutional B             A           n/a           A          D
uses
Office and
commercial    C             B           A             n/a        C
uses
Industrial    D             D           D             C          n/a
uses
[1]: Letters in cells correspond to the buffer types listed in
Table 4-2, Buffer Types.
[2]: Multi-family, townhouse, multi-building campus or shopping center type
developments shall provide buffers around the perimeter of the development
instead of around individual buildings.
 
      (5)   Location of perimeter buffers.
         (a)    Perimeter buffers required by this section shall be located
only along the outer perimeter of the parcel where it abuts the adjacent
impacted another parcel, and shall extend to the parcel boundary line or right-
of-way line.
         (b)   In an industrial district, perimeter buffers are not required
along lot lines abutting streets except as provided for in
Tables 4-2 and
4-3 when abutting non-industrial districts. In such cases, the outdoor
operation or storage components shall include perimeter buffers as necessary to
screen outdoor use areas from off-site views.
         (c)   A perimeter buffer may be located along shared access easements
between parcels in nonresidential developments.
      (6)   Responsibility for buffer installation.
         (a)   Vacant parcels. Where a developing parcel is adjacent to a
vacant parcel and a perimeter buffer is required in accordance with this
section, the developing parcel shall provide a minimum of one-half of the
perimeter buffer required adjacent to the vacant land.
         (b)   Existing land uses. Where a developing parcel is adjacent to an
existing use and a perimeter buffer is required in accordance with this
section, the developing parcel shall provide the full perimeter buffer required
adjacent to the existing use in accordance with
Table 4-2, Buffer Types, and
Table 4-3: Buffer Type Application, unless a portion or all of a perimeter
buffer that complies with the standards of this section already exists between
the lots. Where all or part of a perimeter buffer exists, but the buffer does
not fully comply with the standards of this section, the developing parcel
shall be responsible for providing all the additional planting material
necessary to meet the standards of this section.
      (7)   Development within required buffers.
         (a)   The required buffer shall not contain any development,
impervious surfaces, or site features (except fences or walls) that do not
function to meet the standards of this section or that require removal of
existing vegetation, unless otherwise permitted in this chapter.
         (b)   Sidewalks, trails, and other elements associated with passive
recreation may be placed in perimeter buffers if all required landscaping is
provided and damage to existing vegetation is minimized to the maximum extent
practicable.
         (c)   Overhead and underground utilities required or allowed by the
city are permitted to cross a required buffer in a perpendicular fashion, but
shall minimize the impact to vegetation to the maximum extent practicable.
Where required landscaping material is damaged or removed due to utility
activity within a required buffer, the landowner shall be responsible for
replanting all damaged or removed vegetation necessary to ensure the buffer
meets the standards in this chapter.
      (8)   Sight triangles. Fencing, berms, walls, and all other landscaping
features shall adhere to the requirements of §
153.042(D)(2)(b), Corner Visibility.
      (9)   Credit for existing vegetation. Existing vegetation meeting the
size standards of §
153.060(C)(2), Planting Standards, located within the perimeter buffer area may
be preserved and credited toward the perimeter buffer standards.
   (I)   Standards for required screening.
      (1)   General requirements. In addition to the other forms of required
landscaping, screening shall be required to conceal specific areas of high
visual or auditory impact or hazardous areas from off-site views. Such areas
shall be screened at all times, unless otherwise specified, regardless of
adjacent uses, districts, or other proximate landscaping material.
      (2)   Items to be screened. The following areas shall be screened in
accordance with this section:
         (a)   Anything specifically called out by this chapter as requiring
screening.
         (b)   Large trash handling and recycling collection areas (e.g.,
dumpsters and cardboard recycling containers).
         (c)   All loading and service areas shall be screened and landscaped
from abutting and surrounding residential uses and public rights-of-way.
         (d)   Allowed outdoor storage areas adjacent to a public right-of-way.
         (e)   New construction, demolition, or other site conditions that
could be unsafe for pedestrians or vehicles.
      (3)   Screening methods. The following items are permitted for use as
screening materials, and more than one method may be used on a lot or site.
         (a)   Vegetative materials that can provide a 90% opacity-year round
screen and which are the minimum height necessary to screen the facility from
offsite views; or
         (b)   An opaque fence or wall meeting the following requirements:
            1.   The fence or wall shall be consistent with the standards in §
153.062, Fences and Walls.
            2.    The fence or wall shall be constructed of masonry, brick,
wood, masonry free vinyl or steel constructed to be similar in appearance to
materials commonly sold as fence material.
            3.   The fence or wall shall provide a solid screening effect and
not exceed the maximum height allowed for fences or walls in the underlying
zoning district, or be less than six feet in height.
            4.   The design and materials used in constructing a required
screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the Community Development
Department.
         (c)   Alternative screening materials that are not listed above or
alternative configurations may be proposed as part of an alternative
landscaping plan [see §
153.060(E)], if the alternative materials or configuration provide an
equivalent or superior screening function.
      (4)   Configuration of vegetative materials. In cases where vegetative
materials are used for screening in accordance with this division, the
vegetative materials shall:
         (a)   Be planted around the perimeter of the site feature to be
screened in a manner that screens the site feature from all off-site views;
         (b)   Be configured in two staggered rows or other arrangement that
provides maximum screening;
         (c)   Be upright, large evergreen shrubs and capable of reaching at
least six feet in height within three years of planting; and
         (d)   Be spaced no farther than three feet on-center.
      (5)   Rooftop screening.
         (a)   General roof penetrations. All roof vents, pipes and/or other
roof penetrations (except chimneys), shall be fully screened, located on the
rear elevations, or be otherwise configured to the maximum extent practicable
to have a minimal visual impact as seen from a public street.
         (b)   Exceptions. Rooftop screening standards shall not apply to I-
1 or I-2 zoned properties.
         (c)   Roof-based mechanical equipment.
            1.   Parapet walls or other techniques included as an integral part
of the building design shall be used to totally screen any roof-based
mechanical equipment from public rights-of-way or adjacent lands.
             2.    In cases where roof-based mechanical equipment are too tall
to be screened by a parapet wall, or if changes in the surrounding grade make
rooftops with parapets visible from public rights-of-way or adjacent lands, a
rooftop screening system shall be used for screening (see Figure 4-4).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1936.png]
 
   (J)   Zoning specific landscaping standards.
      (1)   Residential Amenities (RA) District Landscaping Requirements.
RESERVED.
      (2)   Traditional Neighborhood (TN) District Landscaping Requirements.
Lots in the TN district shall adhere to the following additional landscaping
requirements:
         (a)   No less than 60% of the square footage of the front yard area
shall be planted in garden meeting the following requirements:
            1.    Four caliper inches of canopy trees, which must be no less
than three caliper inches at DBH at time of planting, plus two ornamental
trees. Trees may be planted in front or side yard.
            2.   No less than one shrub per 20 square feet of front yard area.
            3.   No less than one deciduous flower planting per 20 square feet
of front yard area.
         (b)    No private driveway leading to a garage may be more than 24
feet in width at the front yard property line.
         (c)   Lot area that is not covered by shrubs and trees may be covered
with lawn, gardens, and patios or decks.
         (d)   A landscaping plan must be approved by the Community Development
Department prior to issuance of a building permit.
         (e)   A landscape security shall be provided to ensure the landscaping
of each lot in accordance with this section.
      (3)   CCD District Landscaping Requirements.
         (a)   No less than 10% of any parcel shall consist of landscaping,
including plant materials, decorative paved surfaces, landscape structures,
public art, water features, or other similar site improvements. This percentage
shall not include required landscaping within parking lots or circulation
areas, but may include pedestrian areas on private property. Tree and shrub
planting shall be as required by §
153.060(H), but may include trees planted within the public right-of-way
abutting the property line toward meeting this replacement.
         (b)   Landscaping within parking and circulation areas shall be as
required by §
153.060(F).
         (c)   All other landscaping requirements of §
153.060 shall apply within the CCD.
      (4)   Industrial and Business Campus (IBC) District Landscaping
Requirements. All IBC lots must include and maintain an operational irrigation
system for the full site at time of certificate of occupancy unless excluded by
an approved alternative landscaping plan for native plantings.
   (K)   Landscaping installation and maintenance standards.
      (1)   Time for installation of required landscaping.
         (a)   Time limit. All required landscaping (including mulching and
seeding) shall be installed in accordance with the required planting standards
set forth in this section prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy
unless the Community Development Department grants an extension to this time
limit in accordance with §
153.060(K)(1)(b) below.
         (b)   Extensions.
            1.   The Community Development Department may, for good cause
shown, grant extensions to the above time limit, allowing a developer/owner to
delay the installation of required landscaping. Circumstances that may warrant
an extension include but are not limited to the following:
               a.   Unusual environmental conditions such as drought, ice, or
over-saturated soil (deep mud);
               b.   It is not yet the appropriate planting season for the
approved plant species;
               c.   Credible evidence that the approved plant species or
required plant sizes are not commercially available and cannot be substituted
within a reasonable time despite an applicant’s diligent effort to secure the
required materials; or
               d.   Completion of utility work occurring in a proposed
landscaped area is incomplete or delayed.
            2.   Upon receipt of a performance guarantee, the city may issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy for a maximum period of up to 180 days.
      (2)   Maintenance of landscaping materials. The owner shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all required landscaping. Such areas shall
be maintained in accordance with the approved landscape plan or alternative
landscape plan and shall present a healthy and orderly appearance free from
refuse and debris. All plant life shown on an approved landscape plan or
alternative landscape plan shall be replaced if it dies, is seriously damaged,
or removed.
         (a)   Damage due to natural occurrence. In the event that any
vegetation or physical element functioning to meet the standards of this
section is severely damaged due to an unusual weather occurrence or natural
catastrophe, or other natural occurrence such as damage by wild or domestic
animals, the owner or developer may be required to replant if the landscaping
standards are not being met. The owner shall have one growing season to replace
or replant. The Community Development Department shall consider the type and
location of the landscape buffer or required vegetation area as well as the
propensity for natural re-vegetation in making a determination on the extent of
replanting requirements.
         (b)   Protection during operations. The owner or developer shall take
actions to protect trees and landscaping from unnecessary damage during all
facility and site maintenance operations. Plants shall be maintained in a way
that does not obstruct sight distances at roadway and drive intersections,
obstruct traffic signs or devices, or interfere with the use of sidewalks or
pedestrian trails.
         (c)   Maintain shape. All required trees (whether canopy, understory,
or otherwise) shall be maintained in their characteristic natural shape, and
shall not be severely pruned, sheared, topped, or shaped as shrubs. Trees that
have been severely pruned, sheared, topped, or shaped as shrubs which no longer
serve the intended buffering or screening function shall be considered as
damaged vegetation in need of replacement in accordance with §
153.060(K)(2)(a) Damage Due to Natural Occurrence, and shall be replaced within
one growing season.
         (d)   Natural death. The natural death of existing vegetation within
any required landscape area does not necessarily constitute a violation and
does not require re-vegetation to replace the plant material unless the
required landscape area no longer complies with the required standards of this
section. Further, the screening is expected to remain effective continually, so
any plant material which dies or ceases to function as a screen shall be
replaced or reinforced immediately to conform to city ordinance.
      3)   Agreement and security. A landscaping security shall be submitted
with the building permit application. Such security guarantees that in exchange
for building permit, the owner will construct, install and maintain all items
shown on the approved plan and that they will replace and or correct any
deficiencies or defaults that occur in the plan for a period of one complete
year or two complete growing seasons subsequent to the complete installation
according to approved landscaping plan.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 812, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 153.061 TREE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to preserve existing natural
resources of the community and to encourage the greening of the city. The City
Council finds that the preservation of trees and other vegetation, where
practicable, is in the best interest of city residents’ health and welfare. To
that end, the City Council has found it necessary and desirable to establish
regulations to ensure the city preserves its most significant trees and
clusters of exiting trees throughout the city.
   (B)   Protection of specimen trees.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   In general. All development in the city, except that exempted in
accordance with §
153.061(B)(1)(b) below, shall be required to protect specimen trees in
accordance with this section.
         (b)   Exemptions. The following development shall be exempt from these
standards:
            1.   Development on land within the CCD zoning district and all
other commercially and industrially zoned properties;
            2.   Development on land containing an existing single-family
detached residential dwelling on a lot-of-record which cannot be further
subdivided.
      (2)   Separate plan required. The location, species, and size of all
specimen trees to be retained in accordance with this section shall be depicted
on a separate inventory and protection plan clearly depicting all required
information.
      (3)   General requirement.
         (a)   No specimen tree may be removed, except in accordance with §
153.061(B)(4), Removal of a Specimen Tree ("specimen tree" is defined in §
153.012).
         (b)   All specimen trees shall have the following protections, whether
located on public or private land:
            1.   Cutting, removal, or harm prohibited. Specimen trees shall not
be cut, removed, pushed over, killed, or otherwise harmed.
            2.   Paving or soil compaction prohibited. The area within the
dripline of any specimen tree shall not be subject to paving or soil compaction
greater than 10% of the total area within the dripline, or within 12 feet of
the tree trunk.
      (4)   Removal of a specimen tree. Specimen trees may be removed if the
landowner demonstrates to the Community Development Department that one of the
following sets of conditions is met:
         (a)   Removal of a healthy specimen tree. A specimen tree that is in
healthy condition may only be removed if all of the following standards are
met:
            1.   The specimen tree prevents development of a lot platted prior
to the effective date of this chapter as denoted in §
153.004 in a way that limits building area to less than otherwise allowed, or
hinders compliance with the standards in §§
153.040 through
153.047, §§
153.060 through
153.072, and §§
153.090 through
153.093.
            2.   Mitigation is provided in accordance with §
153.061(B)(5), Replacement/Mitigation of Specimen Trees.
         (b)   Removal of a severely diseased, high risk, or dying specimen
tree. A specimen tree that is certified as being severely diseased, high risk,
or dying by a certified arborist may be removed without required mitigation.
      (5)   Replacement/mitigation of specimen trees. Those causing the
destruction or removal of a healthy specimen tree, unless exempted by this
chapter, shall be responsible for the following mitigation:
         (a)   Replacement trees required.
            1.   Each healthy specimen tree removed or destroyed shall be
replaced with three or more replacement trees equaling or exceeding a total of
18 aggregate caliper inches.
            2.   The required replacement trees shall be planted within 12
months of the removal or destruction of the specimen tree.
         (b)   Location of replacement trees. Replacement trees shall be either
planted on the parcel of land from which the specimen tree was removed if
sufficient space is available, or placed on nearby lands in accordance with §
153.060(E), Alternative Landscape Plan.
         (c)   Establishment period. Replacement trees shall be maintained
through an establishment period of at least two complete growing seasons. The
applicant shall guarantee the survival and health of all replacement trees
during the establishment period and guarantee any associated replacement costs.
If the replacement trees do not survive the establishment period, the applicant
shall purchase and install new replacement trees.
   (C)   Tree protection during construction.
      (1)   Owner’s responsibility. During development, the owner or developer
shall be responsible for the erection of any and all barriers necessary to
protect any existing or installed vegetation from damage both during and after
construction.
      (2)   Tree protection fencing and tree save areas.
         (a)   Where required. Specimen trees and other existing trees being
used for credit towards landscaping requirements shall be fenced with a sturdy
and visible fence before grading or other development activity begins. Fencing
shall be erected no closer than one linear foot to the tree’s dripline. The
Community Development Department shall consider the existing site conditions in
determining the exact location for tree protection fencing. Areas located
inside of tree protection fencing are considered “tree save areas”.
         (b)   Inspection. All tree protection measures shall be inspected and
approved by the city prior to start of any land disturbing activities. Failure
to have tree protection measures approved prior to the commencement of
construction is a violation of this chapter.
         (c)   When required. No construction, grading, equipment or material
storage, or any other activity shall be allowed within the tree save (fenced)
area. Fencing shall be maintained until after the final site inspection.
      (3)   Encroachments into tree save areas. Encroachments into specimen
tree save areas shall occur only when no other alternative exists. If such an
encroachment is anticipated, the following preventive measures shall be
employed:
         (a)   Soil compaction. Where compaction might occur due to
construction traffic or materials delivery through a tree save area, the area
must first be mulched with a minimum four inch layer of wood chips. Equipment
or materials storage shall not be allowed within a tree save area.
         (b)   Fill. No fill shall be placed within a specimen tree save area
without adequate venting to allow air and water to reach the roots.
         (c)   Chemical contamination. Trees located within a specimen tree
save area shall be protected from chemical contamination from liquids or other
materials, including but not limited to paint, chemical solvents, gasoline,
oil, diesel fuel, hydraulic fluid, concrete spoils, or rinse water from vehicle
cleaning, including rinsing of concrete truck tanks and chutes.
         (d)   Paving limitations. Except for driveway access points,
sidewalks, curb, and gutter; no paving shall occur within five feet of a
specimen tree save area unless authorized through an alternative landscaping
plan [See §
153.060(E), Alternative Landscaping Plan].
   (D)   Tree preservation incentives.
      (1)   Tree preservation credits. In order to encourage the preservation
of as many healthy trees as practical on a development site, credit towards the
minimum landscaping requirements shall be applied to all existing trees
retained on a site that are not specimen trees that comply with the credit
standards of this division. Credits are offered only for trees that are not
required to be retained by other sections of this chapter. Credits shall be
granted in accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Credit amount. A credit of one-and-one-quarter multiplied by the
aggregate caliper of trees that are not specimen trees shall be credited and
applied towards the landscaping standards in §
153.060, Landscaping and Screening, when the trees that are saved comply with
the following minimum size standards:
            1.   Canopy trees. Canopy trees, whether deciduous or evergreen, of
seven inches in caliper or greater, measured six inches above ground level.
            2.   Understory/ornamental trees. Understory or ornamental trees,
whether deciduous or evergreen, of four inches in caliper or greater, measured
four inches above ground level.
         (b)   Credit applied towards required plantings. The credit shall be
applied to the aggregate tree caliper inch standards for landscaping. In no
case shall credits substitute for more than 75% of the required landscaping
material.
         (c)   Exclusions to credit provisions. Dead, dying or diseased trees
shall not be used towards crediting.
      (2)   Reduction in the minimum number of required parking spaces. Up to a
5% reduction in the number of off-street parking spaces required on a
development site shall be allowed if the reduction in the amount of required
pavement will preserve the root zones of existing healthy specimen trees. The
amount of reduction can be determined only after taking into consideration any
unique site conditions and the impact of the reduction on parking needs for the
use, and must be agreed upon by both the applicant and the Community
Development Department. Alternative paving materials may be required by the
Community Development Department in cases where required parking areas encroach
upon root zones.
§ 153.062 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
regulate the location, height, and appearance of fences and walls to maintain
visual harmony within residential and business districts; protect adjacent
properties from the indiscriminate placement and unsightliness of fences and
walls; and ensure the safety, security, and privacy of properties.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   In general. Unless exempted in accordance with §
153.062(B)(2) below, the provisions of this section shall apply to the
construction, reconstruction, or replacement of all fences or walls in the
city. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this section and
any screening standard in §
153.060(I), Screening, the latter shall govern.
      (2)   Exemptions. The following are exempted from the requirements of
this section.
         (a)   Development in the CCD District. Development on lots in the CCD
district is exempt from the standards of this section.
         (b)   Recreational fencing. Customary fencing provided as a part of a
permitted tennis court, athletic field, or other recreational facility.
         (c)   Temporary fencing. Temporary fencing established around
construction sites, demolitions, or other site conditions unsafe for
pedestrians or vehicles, provided it is consistent with the building code.
   (C)   General requirements for fences and walls.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   Fences and walls are permitted anywhere on a lot subject to the
following restrictions:
            1.   The corner visibility requirements in §
153.042(D)(2)(b) shall be met.
            2.   Fences and walls shall not be located within public right-of-
way.
            3.   Fences and walls permitted by the Community Development
Department to be within easements are subject to removal without compensation
to the property owner if the city must access the area for maintenance or
improvement purposes.
            4.    Fences and walls shall not be permitted within conservation
easements unless specifically permitted by the easement.
            5.   Fences and walls must be set back no less than three feet from
any public trail or sidewalk.
         (b)   Fences and walls may be located directly over a property line
between two or more parcels of land held in private ownership.
         (c)   A certificate of survey may be required by the Community
Development Department to determine the location of fences and walls on a
property.
      (2)   Blocking natural drainage flow.
         (a)   No fence shall be installed so as to block or divert a natural
drainage flow on to or off of any other land.
         (b)   Drainage swales may not be filled to accommodate the
construction of fences or walls without alternate stormwater provisions being
reviewed and approved by the Community Development Department.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
installation of temporary fencing to protect existing trees, limit
sedimentation, or control erosion.
      (3)   Fences and walls within buffers. Fences and walls shall be
installed so as not to disturb or damage existing vegetation or installed plant
material. The perimeter fencing or wall for a single development shall be of a
uniform style that complies with the standards of this section.
      (4)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   A building permit is required for the construction of any fence
or wall that will be more than seven feet in height above grade, or for
construction of a retaining wall that is more than four feet in height from the
bottom of the footing to the top of the wall.
         (b)   Fences which do not require a building permit under the
provisions of §
153.062(D)(4)(a) above may be constructed without a permit, but shall adhere to
all fencing requirements in this chapter.
   (D)   Requirements for fences and walls by district type. All fences and
walls shall conform to the following standards. In all cases, heights are
measured from finished grade on the highest side of the fence or wall.
      (1)   Residential districts. In residential districts (see
Table 3-1: Base Zoning Districts), fences and walls shall conform to the
following:
         (a)   Front yards.
            1.   Fences and walls shall not exceed a height of four feet in
front yards and that part of side yards from the front lot line to the front
building line.
            2.   Fences and walls must be setback at least six feet from the
property line when adjacent to a public right-of-way.
            3.   Fences and walls must be setback at least three feet from a
public sidewalk or pathway.
         (b)   Side or rear yards.
            1.   Fences and walls shall not exceed a height of seven feet in
side and rear yards.
            2.    In side or rear yards which abut a public street, fences or
walls which exceed 36 inches in height must be set back at least six feet from
the property line.
            3.   Fences and walls must be setback at least three feet from a
public sidewalk or pathway.
         (c)   Transparency. Fences or walls located within a front yard
adjacent to a street shall maintain a minimum of 50% transparency.
         (d)   Access. Where any fence or wall connects to a building used as a
dwelling, at least one gate not less than two feet six inches in width shall be
required to allow access around the building.
      (2)   Business districts.
         (a)   General. In business districts (see
Table 3-1: Base Zoning Districts), fences and walls shall not be permitted in
front yards, except as may be allowed by the security provisions of this
section, and shall not exceed a height of seven feet in side or rear yards. If
a fence is constructed on top of a retaining or other wall, the combined height
of the fence and wall shall not exceed the maximum height that would apply to a
fence or wall alone (see also §
153.042(D)(2)(b), Corner visibility, for additional restrictions on fence
placement).
         (b)   Major utilities, wireless communications, government facilities,
and other public safety uses. Fences and walls in front, side, and rear yards
of major utilities, wireless communication towers, government facilities, and
other public safety uses shall not exceed eight feet.
      (3)   Industrial districts.
         (a)   Industrial and Business Campus District.
            1.   Fences and walls shall not be permitted in front yards;
            2.   Fences shall adhere to the following yard-based requirements:
               a.   In all side yards, a fence shall not exceed seven feet in
height.
               b.   In all rear yards, a fence shall not exceed 15 feet in
height provided a building permit is obtained for any additional height over
seven feet.
            3.   In no event shall a fence exceed seven feet in height if the
fence is located within 20 feet of a public right-of-way.
         (b)   I-1 and I-2 Districts.
            1.   Fences and walls shall not be permitted in front yards;
            2.   Fences shall adhere to the following yard-based requirements:
               a.   In all side and rear yards, a fence shall not exceed 15
feet in height provided a building permit is obtained for any additional height
over seven feet.
            3.   In no event shall a fence exceed seven feet in height if the
fence is located within20 feet of a public right-of-way.
      (4)   Vacant property. Vacant property may be fenced if the fence does
not exceed four feet in residential districts and eight feet in business or
industrial districts, the fencing maintains a minimum transparency of 50%, and
the purpose of the fencing is to discourage unauthorized dumping or
unauthorized parking on the property. Fencing of the vacant property shall not
be construed to allow use of the property for outdoor storage.
   (E)   Exemption for security plan. A property owner or tenant or a
representative of a public agency responsible for a government facility, public
safety use, or other use in need of heightened security may submit to the
Community Development Department a site security plan proposing fences or walls
taller than those permitted by this section or proposing the use of barbed or
concertina wire atop a fence or wall for security reasons. The Community
Development Department may approve or approve with conditions the site security
plan and its proposed exemption of fences or walls from the standards of this
section, upon finding:
      (1)   Taller fence or wall needed for safety or security reasons. The
condition, location, or use of the property, or the history of activity in the
area, indicates the land or any materials stored or used on it are in
significantly greater danger of theft or damage than surrounding land, or
represent a significant hazard to public safety without a taller fence or the
use of barbed or concertina wire atop a fence or wall; and
      (2)   Not have security, functioning appearance of adjacent properties.
The proposed taller fences or walls or use of barbed or concertina wire will
not have a significant adverse effect on the security, functioning, appearance,
or value of adjacent properties or the surrounding area as a whole.
   (F)   Perimeter fences and walls abutting public rights-of-way.
      (1)   Fences or walls located within 15 feet of a street or public right-
of-way shall:
         (a)   Be of a uniform style;
         (b)   Be located outside the public right-of-way;
         (c)    Include breaks, offsets, access points, or other design details
in the wall plane at least every 200 feet.
   (G)   Prohibited fences. Fences or walls made of debris, junk, rolled
plastic, sheet metal, plywood, wooden landscape lattice or waste materials are
prohibited in all zoning districts unless such materials have been recycled and
reprocessed for marketing to the general public as building materials that
resemble new building materials and are designed for use as a fencing material
(e.g., picket fencing made from recycled plastic and fiber). No metal “t” posts
shall be permitted.
   (H)   Chain link fencing. Chain link fencing shall be allowed, subject to
the following standards:
      (1)   All districts. In all districts, chain link fences must have a top
rail, and barbed ends must be placed at the bottom of the fence.
      (2)   Residential districts. Chain link fencing is permitted on lots
within residential zoning districts provided it does not include opaque slats,
and does not exceed a height of four feet in the front yard and does not exceed
five feet in the side and rear yard.
      (3)   Business districts. Chain link fencing shall not be allowed on lots
within a business zoning district unless expressly authorized through approval
of a security plan under the provisions of §
153.062(E).
      (4)   Industrial districts. Chain link fencing shall be allowed on lots
within industrial zoning districts provided it does not include opaque slats
and is coated with black or dark green vinyl.
   (I)   Barbed or razor wire. Barbed or razor wire is prohibited except as
expressly authorized through approval of conditional use permit relating to of
a security plan under the provisions of §
153.062(E).
   (J)   Appearance.
      (1)   Customary materials. Fences and walls shall be constructed of any
combination of treated wood posts and vertically-oriented planks; maintenance
free vinyl, rot-resistant wood; wrought iron; decorative metal materials;
brick; stone; or masonry materials. Where wood, masonry, or other opaque
materials are specified for particular types of screening or buffering fences
or walls, all other fence materials are prohibited.
         (a)   In residential districts, metal materials of 14-gauge or better,
when treated with factory-applied weather resistant coating or galvanized, and
framed at top and bottom with materials as listed in division (J)(1) above are
permitted.
         (b)   Metal or vinyl fence used for garden areas in residential areas
may not exceed 24 inches in height.
         (c)   In the I-2 District, metal fences may be permitted when the
materials have been recycled and reprocessed to resemble new building materials
and are designed for use as a fencing material, and when such materials are
designed to resemble allowed materials as listed in section (J)(1) above.
      (2)   Finished side to outside. Wherever a fence or wall is installed, if
one side of the fence or wall appears more “finished” than the other (e.g., one
side has visible support framing and the other does not), then the more
“finished” side of the fence shall face the perimeter of the lot rather than
the interior of the lot.
      (3)   Compatibility of materials along a single lot side. All fencing or
wall segments located along a single lot side shall be composed of a uniform
style and colors compatible with other parts of the fence and with the
associated buildings.
      (4)   Landscape screening. All fences and walls exceeding four feet in
height and located within 15 feet of a public street right-of-way in commercial
and industrial districts, or as otherwise required by this chapter, shall be
supplemented with landscape screening in accordance with the following
standards to soften the visual impact of the fence or wall.
         (a)   Shrubs required. One evergreen shrub shall be installed for
every fifteen linear feet of fence or wall, on the side of the fence or wall
facing the public street right-of-way. Shrubs shall meet the size standards of
§
153.060(C)(2) Planting Standards, and may be installed in a staggered,
clustered, grouped, or linear fashion.
         (b)   Substitution of understory trees. One understory or ornamental
tree may be substituted for every three evergreen shrubs provided that the tree
meets the size standards of §
153.060(C)(2) Planting Standards.
         (c)   Integration with other required landscaping. Required landscape
screening for fences or walls may be integrated into the landscaping required
for vehicular use area screening or perimeter buffers, provided the standards
in §
153.060 Landscaping and Screening Standards, are maintained.
      (5)   Maintenance required. Every fence or wall must be maintained in a
condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to become and remain in
a condition of disrepair or danger or constitute a nuisance. Fences or walls in
a state of disrepair may be removed by the city as provided by Minnesota
Statutes. The cost of removing fences may be levied against the property as a
special assessment.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.063 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate light spillage and
glare to ensure the safety of motorists and pedestrians, and to ensure lighting
does not adversely affect land uses on adjacent properties. More specifically,
this section is intended to:
      (1)   Regulate exterior lighting to mitigate adverse impacts. Regulate
exterior lighting to assure that excessive light spillage and glare are not
directed at adjacent properties, neighboring areas, and motorists;
      (2)   Ensure proper insulation. Ensure that all site lighting is designed
and installed to maintain adequate lighting levels on site while limiting
negative lighting impacts on adjacent lands; and
      (3)   Provide security. Provide security for persons and land.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   In general. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
development in the city unless exempted in accordance with §
153.063(C) below. For new development, including new signs, the Community
Development Department may require specification plans and light distribution
plans to verify compliance with these standards.
      (2)   Time of compliance. An exterior lighting plan shall be submitted
and approved along with an application for a site plan [§
153.028(F)], subdivision [City Code], building permit [§
153.028(I)], or temporary use permit [§
153.028(L)], whichever occurs first.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following is exempted from the exterior lighting
standards of this section.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Existing athletic field lighting;
      (3)   City-owned, -operated, or -maintained street lights located within
a street right-of-way or other easement granted to the city; and
   (D)   General standards for exterior lighting.
      (1)   Hours of illumination. Public and institutional uses, commercial
uses, and industrial uses (See
Table 5-1) that are adjacent to existing residential development or vacant land
in residential districts shall turn off all exterior lighting—except lighting
necessary for security or emergency purposes—within one hour of closing. For
the purposes of this division, lighting “necessary for security or emergency
purposes” shall be construed to mean the minimum amount of exterior lighting
necessary to illuminate possible points of entry or exit into a structure, to
illuminate exterior walkways, or to illuminate outdoor storage areas. Such
lighting may be activated by motion sensor devices.
      (2)   Illumination direction. In all districts, lighting shall be
directed downward. In addition, upwardly-directed lighting shall not be used to
illuminate structures, except for low-wattage architectural lighting or
lighting for the American flag.
   (E)   Design standards for exterior lighting. All exterior lighting shall
meet the following standards:
      (1)   Maximum lighting height.
         (a)   Except for outdoor sports fields or performance areas, the
height of outdoor lighting, whether mounted on poles or walls or by other
means, shall be no greater than 16 feet in residential districts and no greater
than 25 feet in business districts.
         (b)   Wherever possible, illumination of outdoor seating areas,
building entrances, and walkways shall be accomplished by use of ground mounted
fixtures not more than four feet in height.
      (2)   Shielding and fixtures.
         (a)   Exterior. Light fixtures in excess of 60 watts or 100 lumens
shall use full cut-off lenses or hoods to prevent glare or spillover from the
project site onto adjacent lands and streets.
         (b)   Interior. No interior light source shall be positioned, aimed,
or configured so as to result in the light source being visible from land
occupied by existing residential development.
         (c)   Canopies. No light source in a canopy structure shall extend
downward further than the lowest edge of the canopy ceiling.
         (d)   Awnings. Awnings or canopies used for building accents over
doors, windows, etc., shall not be internally illuminated (i.e., from
underneath or behind the awning). Illumination casting downward from the awning
may be allowed provided that the light source shall not extend downward farther
than the lowest edge of the awning.
      (3)   Maximum illumination levels. All outdoor lighting and indoor
lighting visible from outside shall be designed and located so that the maximum
illumination measured in footcandles at ground level at a property line or
right-of-way center line shall not exceed the standards in Table 4-5, Maximum
Illumination Levels. Cut-off lighting shall be designed to direct light
downward (e.g., shoe box style).
 
TABLE 4-5: MAXIMUM ILLUMINATION LEVELS
Type of Use [1]                          Maximum Illumination (footcandle)
All uses                                 0.5 at all ROW center lines
Residential or civic & institutional use 0.5 at property line
Commercial or industrial use             1.0 at property line
Parking lots                             1.0 at property line
[1]: See
Table 5-1: Uses by District
 
   (F)   Wall pack lights. Wall packs on buildings may be used at entrances to
a building to light unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to
the building or provide general building or site lighting. Wall packs on the
exterior of the building shall be fully shielded (e.g., true cut-off type bulb
or light source not visible from off-site) to direct the light vertically
downward and be of low wattage (preferably 100 watts or lower). Wall pack light
sources visible from any location off the site are prohibited.
   (G)   Exemptions for a security plan. Government facilities, parks and open
areas, utilities, and public safety (see
Table 5-1) where sensitive or dangerous materials are stored may submit to the
Community Development Department a site security plan proposing exterior
lighting that deviates from the standards in this division. The Community
Development Department shall approve, or approve with conditions, the site
security plan and its proposed deviation from the standards of this division,
upon finding that:
      (1)   Deviation necessary to protect public or ensure security. The
proposed deviation from the standards is necessary for the adequate protection
of the public;
      (2)   Significantly greater danger of theft or damage without additional
lighting. The condition, location, or use of the land, or the history of
activity in the area, indicates the land or any materials stored or used on it
are in significantly greater danger of theft or damage, or members of the
public are at greater risk for harm than on surrounding land; and
      (3)   Deviation is minimum required and will not have adverse effect. The
proposed deviation from the standards is the minimum required, and will not
have a significant adverse effect on neighboring lands.
   (H)   illumination of outdoor sports fields and performance areas. Lighting
of outdoor sports fields and performance areas shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Glare control package. All lighting fixtures shall be equipped with
an existing glare control package (e.g., louvers, shields, or similar devices)
and aimed so that their beams are directed and fall within the primary playing
or performance area.
      (2)   Hours of operation. The lighting system for any game or event shall
be extinguished after the end of the game or event.
   (I)   Sign lighting. Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall comply with
the standards of this section, and exterior light sources shall be aimed and
shielded so that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the sign face
and the light source is not visible from off-site areas. A light distribution
plan or other information demonstrating compliance with the lighting
requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   Lighting requirements for the CCD District.
      (1)   Parking lot lighting shall be consistent with the common lighting
style for fixtures and poles within the CCD design guidelines, or as adopted by
the City Council.
      (2)   Public street lighting shall be consistent with a common lighting
style throughout the CCD, based on a style for fixtures and poles to be
identified in the city’s public improvement specification.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.064 SIGNS.
   (A)   Findings, purpose, and effect.
      (1)   Findings. The city finds:
         (a)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
         (b)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
         (c)   Signs can create traffic hazards and aesthetic concerns, thereby
threatening the public health, safety and welfare.
         (d)   The city's zoning regulations include the regulation of signs in
an effort to provide adequate means of expression and to promote the economic
viability of the business community, while protecting the city and its citizens
from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and character that
would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community and threaten the
health, safety and welfare of the community. The regulation of the physical
characteristics of signs within the city has had a positive impact on traffic
safety and the appearance of the community.
      (2)   Purpose and intent.
         (a)   It is not the purpose or intent of §
153.064 to regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or
intent of this section to regulate any building design or any display not
defined as a sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building.
         (b)   The purpose and intent of §
153.064 is to:
            1.   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination and
other physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
            2.   Maintain, enhance and improve the aesthetic environment of the
city by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
            3.   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city's goals of public safety and aesthetics.
            4.   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign
regulations set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
      (3)   Effect. A sign may be erected, mounted, displayed or maintained in
the city if it is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The
effect of §
153.064, as more specifically set forth herein, is to:
         (a)   Allow a wide variety of sign types in commercial zones, and a
more limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards set
forth in §
153.064.
         (b)   Allow certain small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the
principal use of a site in all zones when in compliance with the requirements
of §
153.064.
         (c)   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment and the public health, safety and welfare.
         (d)   Provide for the administration and enforcement of the provisions
of §
153.064.
   (B)   Permit required. No sign shall be erected, altered, improved,
reconstructed, maintained or moved in the city without first securing a sign
permit from the city:
      (1)   The content of the message or speech displayed on the sign shall
not be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve or deny a sign
permit.
      (2)   Application for a sign permit shall be in conformance with the
requirements of §
153.028(K), Sign Permits:
   (C)   Permit not required. The following signs shall not require a permit
and are allowed in addition to those signs allowed by §
153.064(I) and §
153.064(J) of this section. These exemptions, however, shall not be construed
as relieving the owner of the sign from the responsibility of its erection and
maintenance, and its compliance with the provisions of this section or any
other law or ordinance regulating the same.
      (1)   The changing of the display surface on a painted or printed sign
only. This exemption, however, shall apply only to poster replacement and/or on
site changes involving sign painting on a surface other than the surface of the
building.
      (2)   Permanent signs two square feet or less in size.
      (3)   One temporary sign per property in residential districts not to
exceed four square feet.
      (4)   In a state general election year, noncommercial signs of any size
may be posted in any number 46 days before the state primary in a state general
election year until ten days following the state general election. Election
signs posted in connection with elections held at times other than those
regulated by M.S. § 211B.035, as it may be amended from time to time, shall not
be posted more than 13 weeks prior to the election and shall be removed by the
party responsible for the erection of the sign or the property owner within ten
days after the election. All such noncommercial signs are permitted on private
property in any zoning district with the express consent of the owner or
occupant of such property.
      (5)   Official and public signs.
      (6)   One sign shall be allowed per street frontage when a property is
offered for sale or lease, provided that:
         (a)   Within residential zoning districts (see table 3-1), no sign
shall exceed 12 square feet in area and six feet in height for single-family,
two-family, townhouse, and quadraminium units; or 32 square feet in area or
eight feet in height for multi-family or institutional uses.
         (b)   For non-residential zoning districts (see table 3-1), as well as
for any parcel larger than ten acres in any zoning district, signs may be up to
96 square feet in area or 12 feet in height as defined in this chapter. One
additional such sign shall be allowed for any street frontage which exceeds
1,000 linear feet. For the purposes of this section, frontage on any right-of-
way, including local streets, county or state highways, or I-94 shall
constitute a “frontage”, regardless of access.
      (7)   Sandwich board signs are allowed within all business zoning
districts (see
table 3-1) provided that:
         (a)   Not more than one sign is allowed per principal building except
that one sign is allowed per tenant within a principal building having two or
more tenants each with an exclusive exterior entrance.
         (b)   The sign shall only be displayed when the business is open to
the public.
         (c)   Except in the CCD district, the sign shall be placed only on the
business property and shall be located within required principal building
setbacks, or encroaching into required setback areas a maximum of five feet,
and shall not be placed on any vehicle.
         (d)   The signs shall be located so as to maintain a minimum five-foot
pedestrian walkway and so as not to obstruct vehicular traffic.
         (e)   The sign shall be set back a minimum of two feet from the back
of curb of a public street or private drive aisle.
         (f)   The sign shall conform to the following height and area
requirements:
            1.   Height: Five feet.
            2.   Area: Six square feet.
         (g)   For sandwich board signs within the CCD district, sandwich board
signs may be located in accordance with the provisions of division (c) above.
In addition, such signs may be placed upon the sidewalk or boulevard portion of
a public right-of-way upon the issuance of an annual permit in accordance with
the provisions and process of §
153.028(K).
   (D)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Any sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or emergency vehicle signs, or which attempts to direct the movement
of traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
      (2)   All off-premises signs unless specifically provided for by this
chapter.
      (3)   Flashing signs.
      (4)   Roof signs.
      (5)   Rotating signs.
      (6)   Shimmering signs.
      (7)   Signs which move or imitate movement, except for dynamic scrolling
signs as defined in this chapter.
      (8)   Signs painted, attached or in any other manner affixed to trees or
similar natural surfaces, or attached to utility poles, bridges, towers, or
similar public structures.
      (9)   Off-premises signs:
         (a)   Off premise signs existing as nonconforming structures at the
time of adoption of this chapter greater than six square feet in area shall be
considered a principal use of property.
         (b)   Annual permits are required for all off-premises signs. Off-
premises signs shall be removed as a condition of construction of another
principal use upon the property or platting or subdivision approval for the
land on which it is located.
      (10)   Abandoned signs.
   (E)   Nonconforming signs and uses.
      (1)   Signs. A nonconforming sign lawfully existing upon the effective
date of this chapter as denoted in §
153.004 shall be regulated in accordance with §§
153.105 through
153.110.
      (2)   Uses. When the principal use of land is legally nonconforming under
§§
153.105 through
153.110, all existing or proposed signs in conjunction with that land use shall
be considered conforming if they are in compliance with the sign provisions for
the most restrictive zoning district in which the principal use is allowed.
      (3)   When a sign is considered to be nonconforming due to size,
location, or other factor, but represents a conforming use of land, such sign
may be continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration,
maintenance, or improvement, but not including expansion, unless it is
considered to be abandoned as defined by this chapter. When a nonconforming
sign has been damaged to an extent of 50% or more of its market value, such
sign shall be considered to be abandoned if no building or sign permit has been
applied for within 180 days of the date of damage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1938.png]
 
   (F)   Enforcement and penalties. Section
153.064 shall be administered and enforced in accordance with the provisions of
§§
153.120 through
153.124 and §
153.999.
   (G)   Substitution. The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by §
153.064 may substitute non-commercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or
non-commercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
   (H)   General provisions.
      (1)   Accessory structures. Except as provided for by §
153.064(D)(9), all signs shall be considered accessory structures.
      (2)   Setbacks. All freestanding signs shall be set back 15 feet from any
property line abutting a public right-of-way and five feet from any side or
rear property line. No sign may be located within a drainage and utility
easement. A certificate of survey may be required to verify sign setback in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Standards adopted. The design and construction standards as set
forth in Chapter 4 of the 1997 edition of the Uniform Sign Code as may be
amended, are hereby adopted.
      (4)   Electrical signs. The installation of electrical signs shall be
subject to the State's Electrical Code. Electrical service to such signs shall
be underground.
      (5)   Approval. No sign shall be attached or be allowed to hang from any
building until all necessary wall and roof attachments have been approved by
the Community Development Department.
      (6)   Sign interference. No signs, guys, stays or attachments shall be
erected, placed or maintained on trees nor interfere with any electric light,
power, telephone or telegraph wires or the supports thereof.
      (7)   Illuminated signs. Illuminated signs shall be shielded to prevent
lights from being directed at oncoming traffic in such brilliance that it
impairs the vision of the driver and may not interfere with or obscure traffic
signs or signals. Lighting may not illuminate any adjacent properties,
buildings, or streets. Notwithstanding this provision, LED (Light Emitting
Diode) light displays may be installed without shielding of the light source
provided that:
         (a)   Unshielded LED light displays may only be located on properties
within the FBS, Freeway Bonus Sign District, an overlay zoning district as
defined in §
153.046(G).
         (b)   Unshielded LED lights are not installed in any area that abuts
residentially zoned property.
         (c)   Unshielded LED lights are not installed in such a way as to
direct light towards residentially zoned property within 500 feet of the light
source.
         (d)   Unshielded LED lights may not exceed a maximum illumination of
5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours and a maximum
illumination of 500 nits (candelas per square meter) between dusk to dawn as
measured from the sign’s face at maximum brightness;
         (e)   Dimmer control. Unshielded LED lights must have an automatic
dimmer control to produce a distinct illumination change from a higher
illumination level to a lower level for the time period between one half-hour
before sunset and one half-hour after sunrise.
      (8)   Placement. No sign or sign structure shall be erected or maintained
that prevents free ingress or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No
sign or sign structure shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      (9)   Square footage calculation (total area = A x B):
         (a)   For wall signs, the area of a sign shall be that area within the
marginal lines created by the sign surface which bears the advertisement or, in
the case of messages, figures or symbols attached directly to the part of a
building, which is included in the smallest rectangular figure which can be
made to circumscribe the message, figure, or symbol displayed thereon.
         (b)   For monument signs, area shall be calculated as for wall signs.
Structural members of the sign, including supports or other decorative features
shall not be considered as a part of the measured sign area.
         (c)   For pylon signs, the entire area of the sign face or cabinet
shall be considered as a part of the measured sign area. Structural supports,
provided that they have no message or other graphics, shall be exempt from the
area calculation.
         (d)   A freestanding sign or sign structure constructed so that the
faces are not back to back, shall not have an angle separating the faces
exceeding 30 degrees unless the total area of both sides added together does
not exceed the maximum allowable sign area for that district.
      (10)   Height. The top of a wall sign, including its superstructure, if
any, shall be no higher than the roof of the building to which such sign may be
attached.
      (11)   Landscaping. A site plan shall be submitted as a part of any
application for a freestanding sign which includes plans for the landscaping of
the area near the sign, and which demonstrates that the sign will complement
the existing or proposed general site landscaping of the property.
      (12)   Vehicle fuel facilities. Signs for vehicle fuel facilities shall
be regulated by the sign provisions for the zoning district in which the
facility is located, except that within a freestanding sign, an area not to
exceed 16 square feet shall be allowed for continuous display (no flashing,
scrolling or other animation) of electronic or non-electronic changeable copy
identifying current fuel prices in accordance with M.S. § 239.751, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (13)   Window signs. Window signs in the CCD zoning district shall comply
with the requirements of the applicable Monticello CCD Sign regulations. Window
signs are not considered a part of the maximum sign area otherwise allowed
under §
153.064 and do not require a permit.
      (14)   Changeable copy signs.
         (a)   Changeable copy signs are subject to the following additional
regulations:
            1.   Signs must be permanently anchored to the structure.
            2.   Signs must be incorporated within the overall sign structure
for both monument and pylon signs and must be consistent in design with the
sign structure.
         (b)   Within commercial and industrial districts and for civic and
institutional uses including, but not limited to, public school facilities,
hospital and medical facilities, municipal facilities and places of public
assembly, one changeable copy sign shall be allowed per site provided that the
area of the sign not exceed 25% of the allowable sign area or 50 square feet,
whichever is less, for a freestanding or wall sign. The area of this sign shall
be counted against the maximum sign area for the building, except where the
property owner has agreed to forgo the use of temporary signs in accordance §
153.064(I)(2) in which case the area of the changeable copy sign shall be
allowed in excess of the maximum sign area.
      (15)   Time and temperature signs. Within commercial and industrial
zoning districts, an area not to exceed 16 square feet within a freestanding or
wall sign shall be allowed for display of an electronic time and temperature
sign subject to the sign provisions for the zoning district in which the sign
is located.
      (16)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs may be allowed in commercial
districts provided that:
         (a)   There is a minimum of eight feet of clearance under the base of
the sign to the ground below.
         (b)   The sign does not project more than five feet beyond the wall to
which it is mounted, may not project over any vehicular drive aisle or traveled
portion of a public or private street and except in the CCD, Central Community
District may not project over a public right-of-way.
         (c)   The area of the projecting sign is not more than 50% of the
maximum area allowed for an individual wall sign in the respective zoning
district in §
153.064(J).
      (17)   Dynamic displays.
         (a)   Findings. Based on studies related to the use of dynamic sign
displays and driver distraction, the city finds that dynamic signs, as defined
by the zoning ordinance, have a unique potential to create driver distraction,
a major cause of traffic crashes. As a result, the city has adopted special
regulations that relate to such signs. These regulations shall apply to all
proposed dynamic signage in the city, whether new or existing, conforming or
nonconforming at the time of adoption of this chapter.
         (b)   Regulations governing dynamic sign displays.
            1.   Dynamic sign displays shall have messages that change
instantaneously, and do not fade, dissolve, blink, or appear to simulate motion
in any way. Prohibited blinking signs shall include signs which are displayed
as continuous solid messages for less than the time required by division 3.
below. The exception to this regulation is the allowance of messages that
appear to scroll horizontally across the sign, but are otherwise in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, including the definition of “scrolling
signs”.
            2.   With the exception of dynamic sign displays for civic or
institutional uses, dynamic sign displays shall not be permitted in any
residential zoning district.
            3.   Dynamic sign displays shall be permanent signs.
            4.   No dynamic sign display shall change more than one time per
three second period; time and temperature displays may change as frequently as
once every three seconds.
            5.   Dynamic sign displays shall be no brighter than other
illuminated signs in the same district.
            6.   Dynamic sign displays shall be designed to freeze the display
in the event of malfunction, and the owner shall discontinue the display
immediately upon malfunction, or upon notice from the city that the display
violates the city’s regulations.
            7.   Applicants for dynamic sign displays shall sign a license
agreement supplemental to the building permit agreeing to operation of a sign
in conformance with these regulations. Violation of these regulations shall
result in forfeiture of the license, and the city shall be authorized to
arrange disconnection of electrical service to the sign display.
            8.   With the exception of dynamic sign displays for civic or
institutional uses, no dynamic sign display shall be permitted to be located in
a yard or on the side of a building which abuts a residentially zoned or used
parcel.
            9.   Dynamic sign displays for civic or institutional uses adjacent
to or abutting residential uses or residentially zoned property shall be
subject to the requirements of § 153.064(H) of this chapter and the following
additional requirements.
               a.   Dynamic displays are limited to inclusion on existing or
proposed monument signage as allowed by § 153.064(J); the total of such
monument signage shall not exceed 100 square feet.
               b.   Dynamic displays shall not exceed 25% of the allowable sign
area or 25 feet in total for the parcel, whichever is less, and shall be
limited to one sign display per parcel.
               c.   Dynamic sign displays must be setback a minimum of 15 from
the public right-of-way and 100 from the property line when adjacent to
residential uses or residentially zoned property.
               d.   Dynamic sign displays must have an automatic dimmer control
to produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower level for the time period between one half-hour before sunset and one
half-hour after sunrise.
               e.   Dynamic sign displays shall not exceed a maximum
illumination of 5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours
and a maximum illumination of 500 nits (candelas per square meter) between dusk
to dawn as measured from the sign’s face at maximum brightness.
               f.   Dynamic sign displays may only be illuminated between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (18)   Design and materials standards for signs in commercial districts,
industrial districts, the CCD District, PUDs.
         (a)   In general. The design and materials of any sign shall be
consistent with the building materials requirements of the district in which
the sign is located, and shall be the same as, or compatible with, the
materials and design of the principal building(s) on the property.
         (b)   Specific materials for pylon signs. All exposed pole or post
structures must be wrapped or faced with stucco, architectural metal, brick or
stone consistent with building architecture.
   (I)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   For property in a Business District or an Industrial District (see
table 3-1), the use of temporary sign devices shall not exceed 120 days per
calendar year per business. When multiple temporary signs are permitted per
parcel, such signs shall be spaced 75 lineal feet apart. The area of temporary
sign devices shall not exceed 40 square feet. Off-premises temporary signage is
prohibited. A temporary sign permit is required to be obtained prior to
displaying the sign.
         (a)   The number of days and dates of use shall be provided on the
permit application. Each business may request up to a total of four permits per
calendar year, or until 120 days are reached cumulatively, whichever occurs
first.
      (2)   In cases where properties forego, in writing, temporary signage
allowed by §
153.064(I)(1) above, an additional permanent message board sign up to 50 square
feet in area shall be allowed. Such sign may be incorporated into a property’s
freestanding sign or the building as additional wall sign area. Freestanding
signs shall be subject to the height limitations of the applicable zoning
district.
      (3)   Subject to other provisions of §
153.064(I), one additional temporary sign device shall be permitted for a
business on a one-time basis for a period of up to 40 days to be utilized
within six months of the first day of the business opening to the public. Such
signage shall not be limited by the provisions of §
153.064(I)(2).
      (4)   Businesses or organizations with their activities located in the
CCD, Central Business District, may display temporary, off-premise signs by
express permit issued by the City Council or the Council’s designee where
access to commercial areas requires directional signage from the city’s
arterial roads. Signs allowed under this section shall be considered to be in
addition to any other sign allowances, including permanent signage, other on-
site temporary signs, or “sandwich board” signs displayed pursuant to §
153.064(C)(7). Signs allowed under this section may, at the discretion of the
Council, be permitted under the following conditions:
         (a)   Off-premise, temporary signs shall be no more than four square
feet in area.
         (b)   Off-premise temporary signs shall be no more than three feet in
height.
         (c)   Off-premise temporary signs shall be limited to no more than one
sign every 75 lineal feet of street frontage, but no more than three signs per
parcel.
         (d)   Notwithstanding other regulations to the contrary, such signs
may be placed upon the public sidewalk within a city street right-of-way. Any
such sign placed on the public sidewalk shall be located so as to avoid
impeding pedestrian traffic, and to avoid visual interference with vehicular
traffic.
         (e)   An application for an off-premise, temporary sign shall be
accompanied by a written statement of permission from the owner of the private
property on which the sign is located. Such statement shall include an express
grant of permission for city inspectors to enter the property for the purpose
of inspecting and/or removing said signs.
         (f)   An application for signs subject to the provisions of this
section may be made for a single period of display, or in the alternative, the
city may grant approval for annual license for the display of such signs in
accordance with §
153.028(K). Separate fees may be established for single-period or annual-period
permits.
         (g)   Eligible days for the display of signs subject to this section
shall be Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or Sunday only.
      (5)   All signs comprised of non-commercial speech are permitted on
private property in any zoning district with an established principal
commercial, industrial, institutional, or public use, with the express consent
of the owner of such property.
         (a)   The total area of such sign devices shall not exceed 40 square
feet in total.
         (b)   Signs may be placed for up to 21 days per 30-day period.
         (c)   Signs may not be placed within the public right-of-way or
easements.
         (d)   Such signs shall be spaced a minimum of 75 linear feet from any
other sign on the site.
         (e)   No permit shall be required for such signage.
      (6)   Temporary signage may be located on a vacant parcel adjacent to a
parcel occupied by an active and permitted principal use, when such properties
are held in the same ownership.
   (J)   District regulations. In addition to the signs allowed by §
153.064(C) and §
153.064(I), the following signs shall be allowed within the specific zoning
districts:
      (1)   Within residential zoning districts (see
table 3-1), the following additional regulations apply:
         (a)   Except for the uses specified in §
153.064(J)(1)(b) and §
153.064(J)(1)(c) below, not more than one sign shall be allowed provided that:
            1.   The area of the sign shall not exceed four square feet.
            2.   Freestanding signs shall be limited to a maximum height of
four feet.
         (b)   In addition to the sign allowed by §
153.064(J)(1)(a) above, residential uses shall be allowed one monument sign per
collector or arterial street access. Such sign shall meet the requirements of
this chapter and shall be constructed at the time of plat or phased plat
development adjacent to the collector or arterial access.
         (c)   Civic and institutional uses shall be allowed two monument signs
per lot meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Within business and industrial zoning districts (see
table 3-1), the following additional regulations shall apply:
         (a)   Total area of signs. The total area of all signs (with the
exclusion of freestanding signs as may be allowed by this code) displayed on a
lot shall not exceed 15% of the total building facade fronting not more than
two public streets.
         (b)   Freestanding signs.
            1.   Unless otherwise specified in this section, one sign is
allowed per lot. The area of a freestanding sign may not exceed 100 square feet
each side with a maximum height of 22 feet.
            2.   If a monument, rather than pylon sign is utilized, an
additional 100 square feet of area beyond the total area calculated in §
153.064(J)(2)(a) above, devoted to wall, canopy or marquee signs shall be
granted.
            3.   In addition to the sign allowed by divisions 1. and 2. above,
additional signage may be allowed per lot in an amount not to exceed three
signs with an individual square footage maximum of ten square feet each and 30
total square feet. Such signage shall not exceed three feet in height. Signage
shall be setback at least six feet from adjacent property lines and shall not
be located within a public right-of-way or easement without a license agreement
approved by the City Council. Such signs may not include changeable copy or
dynamic displays.
            4.   For shopping centers greater than 150,000 square feet of
aggregate building square footage and greater than 20 acres in site area, two
freestanding signs may be permitted. Two pylon signs may be constructed or, as
an alternative, one pylon and one monument sign may be constructed. When the
latter option is chosen, the monument sign shall be no greater than 14 feet in
height nor more than 100 square feet in area. The pylon sign may be no greater
than 25 feet in height and 300 square feet in area.
         (c)   Wall, canopy, or marquee signs.
            1.   Wall, canopy, projecting, and marquee signs shall be
consistent with the maximum area requirements of §
153.064(J)(2)(a).
            2.   Wall, canopy and marquee signs are permitted on any building
facade except those which abut properties zoned for residential use.
         (d)   Multiple occupancy commercial and industrial buildings. When a
single principal building is devoted to two or more commercial or industrial
principal uses, signs shall be allowed subject to review and approval of the
Community Development Department based upon the following requirements:
            1.   The maximum individual sign sizes for multiple occupancy
buildings and individual businesses that may display a sign shall not exceed
the maximum provisions in the same zoning district in §
153.064(J).
            2.    Commercial retail, office, or mixed use multiple occupancy
buildings may display a single freestanding sign consistent with the applicable
zoning district provisions in §
153.064(J).
            3.   Individual tenants of a multiple occupancy building within a
commercial or industrial zoning district may display separate wall, canopy, or
marquee signs subject to the following requirements:
               a.   Such sign shall be limited to the maximum wall sign size
permitted in the applicable zoning district provisions in §
153.064(J). Sign area shall be calculated based on the facade area of each
individual tenant space.
               b.   Such signs shall be located on exterior walls facing
residentially zoned properties or properties on which a residential use exists.
               c.   A comprehensive sign plan is submitted that includes all of
the following information:
                  (i)   A site plan to scale showing the location of lot lines,
buildings, structures, parking areas, existing and proposed signs, and any
other physical features of the area included within the proposed comprehensive
sign plan.
                  (ii)   Elevations to scale of buildings included within the
comprehensive sign plan including the location of existing or proposed wall,
canopy, or marquee signs.
                  (iii)   To scale plans for all existing and proposed signs of
any type included within the comprehensive sign plan indicating area,
dimensions, height, materials, colors, and means of illumination (if any).
               d.   No permit shall be issued for a new or replacement sign for
an individual tenant except upon a determination by the Community Development
Department that it is consistent with the approved comprehensive sign plan.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.065 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES.
   All utilities within or serving new development (e.g. cable television,
electrical (excluding transformers), gas, sewer, telephone, and water lines)
shall be placed underground.
§ 153.066 TRANSITIONAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Transitional features are architectural elements
or site aspects that must be used to ease the transition between new
development and existing structures and community character. It is the intent
of these standards to:
      (1)   Blend land use types throughout the city to minimize visual
conflicts;
      (2)   Limit the excessive consumption of land though the utilization of
large vegetated buffers to separate potentially conflicting use types; and
      (3)   Limit interruptions in vehicular and pedestrian connections created
by efforts to segregate uses.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)    Transitional features shall be required when:
         (a)   Adjacent residential lots contain differing densities (e.g. a
single-family home site adjacent to a duplex);
         (b)   A lot is developing or redeveloping within the R-2, CCD or T-
N zoning districts;
   (C)   Standards. In areas where transitional features are required, one or
more of the following approaches shall be used, subject to approval and as
required by the Community Development Department, to establish a transition
between uses:
      ( 1)   Use setbacks that are within 25% of the average setbacks for
existing uses on the same block face provided no new use is closer to the
right-of-way than any existing use;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1940.png]
 
      ( 2)   Ensure the façade width and height between façades of structures
on opposing sides of a street are consistent with each other such that neither
façade exceeds the other’s dimensions by more than 25%;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1944.png]
 
      (3)    Graduate building height and mass in the form of building step-
backs or other techniques so that structures with a higher intensity have a
comparable scale with adjacent structures housing lower intensity uses;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1946.png]
 
      (4)    Use similarly sized and patterned architectural features such as
windows, doors, awnings, arcades, pilasters, cornices, wall offsets, building
materials, and other building artic ulations included on the lower intensity
use as depicted in Figure 4-8;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1948.png]
 
      (5)   Locate off-street parking, loading, service, and utility areas to
the rear of structures, adjacent to similar site features on surrounding sites;
      (6)   Prevent incompatible exterior lighting or sources of audible noise
or disturbance from building façades facing lower intensity uses;
      (7)   Prevent abrupt changes in roof form by allowing adjacent
incompatible uses to use similar roof types, slopes, or arrangements;
      (8)   Orient porches, balconies, outdoor space, and other site attributes
such as vending machines associated with attached residential development away
from adjacent detached residential uses;
      (9)   Orient primary building façades directly across from opposing
primary façades regardless of use type (as seen in Figure 4-9); and
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1950.png]
      (10)    When dealing with multi-building developments on one or more
lots, establish a continuum of use intensity where uses of moderate intensity
(darkest colors in Figure 4-10) are sited between high-intensity uses (medium
colors in Figure 4-9) and low-intensity uses (light colors in Figure 4-9) (i.e.
retail to multi-family residential to detached residential).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1942.png]
   (11)   Provide landscape buffer Type "A" consistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.067 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of off-street parking spaces in these zoning
regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way
and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street parking of motor vehicles in accordance
with the utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
   (B)   Application of off-street parking regulation. The regulations and
requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-street parking facilities
in all of the zoning districts of the city.
   (C)   Change in use or occupancy.
      (1)   Change in use or occupancy of land.
         (a)   Any change of use or occupancy of land already dedicated to a
parking area, parking spaces, or loading spaces shall not be made, nor shall
any sale of land, division, or subdivision of land be made which reduces area
necessary for parking, parking stalls, or parking requirements below the
minimum prescribed by these zoning regulations.
         (b)   Off-street parking spaces and loading spaces or lot area
existing upon the effective date of this chapter as denoted in §
153.004 shall not be reduced in number or size unless said number of size
exceeds the requirements set forth herein for a similar new use.
      (2)   Change in use or occupancy of a building. Any change of use of
occupancy of any building or buildings, including additions thereto, requiring
more parking area shall not be permitted until there is furnished such
additional parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
      (3)   Site plan drawing necessary. In all zoning districts, all
applications for a building permit or prior to a change in use for an existing
building or as required for a certificate of occupancy in all zoning districts
shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned indicating
the location of off-street parking and loading spaces in compliance with the
requirements set forth in §
153.067.
   (D)   Prohibited uses related to off-street parking.
      (1)   Required accessory off-street parking spaces in any district shall
not be utilized for open storage, sale, or rental of goods; or storage of
inoperable vehicles and/or storage of snow.
      (2)    For single-family and two-family dwellings, off-street parking of
passenger, small construction, emergency or any other commercial vehicles in
the rear yard is prohibited as illustrated in
Figure 4-11 and in
Table 4-9.
      (3)   Except for temporary uses as permitted by §
153.093 and trailers parking in a designated loading area, no vehicle may be
parked and used for storage of items in any district.
   (E)   Standards applicable to all uses.
      (1)   Location of required parking.
         (a)   Required accessory off-street parking shall be on the same lot
under the same ownership as the principal use being served except under the
provisions of §
153.067(G)(3), subject to the public improvement project exception as regulated
by §
153.106(D)(1).
         (b)   Except for single, two-family, townhouse dwellings and parcels
in the CCD, head-in parking directly off of and adjacent to a public street
with each stall having its own direct access to the public street shall be
prohibited.
         (c)   Except in the case of single, two-family, and townhouse
dwellings, parking areas shall be designed so that circulation between parking
bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and does not depend
upon a public street or alley.
         (d)   Except in the case of single, two-family, and townhouse
dwellings and parcels in the CCD, parking area design which requires backing
into the public street is prohibited.
         (e)   All accessory off-street parking facilities required by this
chapter shall be located and restricted as follows:
            1.   For single-family and two-family dwellings, the part of a
paved driveway within boulevard portion of the street right-of-way shall only
be used for parking in a manner that does not block any public sidewalk or
pathway.
            2.   In the case of single-family dwellings, parking shall be
prohibited in any portion of the rear yard. In the case where the only attached
or detached garage on a property is located in the rear yard, parking may be
allowed in designated driveways leading directly into a garage, or on one open
surfaced space located on the side of a driveway away from the principal use as
shown in
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11. Said extra space shall be surfaced as required by
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11.
            3.   In the case of single-family dwellings, parking in the side
yard shall be allowed on a surfaced space as shown in
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11.
         (f)   All parking must occur on a paved surface except as may be
permitted by this chapter.
      (2)   Vehicular use area design.
         (a)   Curb cuts and access.
            1.   Each property shall be allowed one curb cut access per 125
feet of street frontage. All property shall be entitled to at least one curb
cut.
            2.   The maximum driveway width at the property line shall not
exceed 30 feet and shall taper to a width not to exceed 28 feet at the public
street.
            3.   Within all districts, a five foot radius curb may be
constructed at the public street in addition to the maximum driveway width
allowed.
            4.   Driveway access curb openings on a public street except for
single, two-family, and townhouse dwellings shall not be located less than 40
feet from one another.
            5.   No curb cut access shall be located less than 40 feet from the
intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be
measured from the intersection of lot lines.
            6.   All driveway access openings shall require a culvert unless
the lot is served by storm sewer or is determined unnecessary by the Community
Development Department. Size of culvert shall be determined by the Community
Development Department but shall be a minimum of 15 inches in diameter.
            7.   Except for single, two-family, and townhouse residential
development (and as otherwise noted in this chapter), all open vehicular use
areas shall have a perimeter concrete curb barrier around the entire parking
lot, said curb barrier shall not be closer than six feet to any lot line as
measured from the lot line to the face of the curb.
         (b)   Stall, aisle, and driveway design.
            1.   Each parking space shall be not less than nine feet wide and
20 feet in length exclusive of access aisles, and each space shall be served
adequately by access aisles. EXCEPTION: Where desired, up to 25% of the parking
spaces may be not less than seven and one-half feet in width and not less than
16 feet in length when served adequately by access aisles to accommodate
compact car parking and should be marked as such.
            2.   Except in the case of single-family, two-family, and townhouse
dwellings, parking areas and their aisles shall be developed in compliance with
the following standards:
 
TABLE 4-6: PARKING STALL AND AISLE STANDARDS
Angle Wall to Minimum Wall to Interlock Minimum Interlock to Interlock Minimum
30    48.6’         44.5’                   40.3’
45    56.8’         53.4’                   50.0’
60    62.0’         59.7’                   57.4’
90    64.0’         64.0’                   64.0’
Parallel Parking: 22 feet in length
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1952.png]
 
         (c)   Surfacing.
            1.   Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings,
driveways and stalls shall be surfaced with six inch class five base and two
inch bituminous topping or concrete equivalent. Drainage plans shall be
reviewed and subject to approval by the Community Development Department. The
Community Development Department staff may waive this requirement if it is
determined that the drainage plans do not merit further study. Community
Development Department determination in this regard shall be based on the size
of parking surface area, simplicity of design plan, and proximity/accessibility
to existing storm sewer facilities.
            2.   The grade elevation of any parking area shall not exceed 5%.
         (d)   Striping. Except for single, two-family, and townhouses, all
parking stalls shall be marked with white painted lines not less than four
inches wide.
         (e)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property,
abutting residential uses, and public rights-of-way and be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (f)   Landscaping and screening. All open, non-residential, off-street
parking areas of five or more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from
abutting or surrounding residential districts in compliance with §
153.060(F).
            1.   Interior vehicular use area landscaping – see §
153.060(F)(2).
            2.   Perimeter vehicular use area landscaping – see §
153.060(F)(3).
            3.   Perimeter buffers – see §
153.060(G).
         (g)   Signs. No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight
lines and orderly operation and traffic movement within any parking lot.
      (3)   Parking within a structure. The off-street parking requirements may
be furnished by providing a space so designed within the principal building or
one structure attached thereto; however, unless provisions are made, no
building permit shall be issued to convert said parking structure into a
dwelling unit or living area or other activity until other adequate provisions
are made to comply with the required off-street parking provisions of this
chapter.
      (4)   Vehicular use area stall calculation requirements.
         (a)   General provisions.
            1.   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces shown in Table
4-7 shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement, and/or lease for
and during the life of the respective uses hereinafter set forth.
            2.   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces
results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute
another space.
            3.   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other places of
public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or other
similar seating facilities, each 22 inches of such seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat for the purpose of determining requirements.
            4.   Should a structure contain two or more types of use, each
shall be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking
spaces required.
         (b)   Floor area.
            1.   The term "floor area" for the purpose of calculating the
number of off-street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis
of the interior floor area dimensions of the buildings, structure, or use times
the number of floors.
            2.   Whenever practical, final parking calculations shall be based
on an actual building floor plan.
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type Minimum # of Spaces & Additional Requirements
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type                               Minimum # of Spaces & Additional
                                       Requirements
Residential Uses
Detached Dwelling                      2.0 spaces for each dwelling unit
Duplex                                 2.0 spaces for each dwelling unit
                                       2.5 spaces for each dwelling unit, of
Townhome                               which two must be enclosed, plus one
                                       guest parking space for every four units
Multiple-Family
                                       1.2 spaces for each bedroom, of which
   In general                       one must be enclosed, plus one guest
                                       parking space for every four units
   Senior housing - independent livi0.67 spaces per dwelling unit, plus one
                                       guest parking space for every six units
                                       4.0 spaces plus 0.67 spaces per dwelling
   Senior housing - assisted living unit, plus one guest parking space for
                                       every six units
Group Residential Facility, Single-    2.0 spaces for each three persons for
family                                 whom sleeping accommodations are
                                       provided
Group Residential Facility, Multi-     2.0 spaces for each three persons for
Family                                 whom sleeping accommodations are
                                       provided
Manufactured Home                      2.0 spaces per manufactured home
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type Minimum # of Spaces & Additional Requirements
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type                              Minimum # of Spaces & Additional
                                      Requirements
Civic and Institutional Uses
                                      5.0 spaces for each acre of park over one
                                      acre; two spaces per acre for
                                      playgrounds; and ten spaces for each acre
Active Park Facilities (public or     of play field
private)                              - When a public recreation site has more
                                      than one use designation, the areas must
                                      be divided for determining the required
                                      parking
                                      4.0 spaces plus .67 spaces per dwelling
Assisted Living Facilities            unit, plus one guest parking space for
                                      every six units
Baseball Fields, Stadium              1.0 space for each eight seats of design
                                      capacity
Cemeteries                            See Parking Schedule #2 [§
                                      153.067(H)(3)]
Clinics/Medical Services              4.0 spaces for each 1,000 square feet
Hospitals                             2.0 spaces per each bed
Nursing/Convalescent Home             4.0 spaces plus one for each three beds
                                      for which accommodations are offered
                                      8.0 spaces plus one additional space for
Passenger Terminal                    each 800 square feet of floor area over
                                      1,000 square feet
Passive Parks and Open Space          See Parking Schedule #2 [§
                                      153.067(H)(3)]
                                      10.0 spaces plus one for each 150 square
Public Buildings or Uses              feet in excess of 2,000 square feet of
                                      floor area in the principal structure
Schools, Kindergarten through Junior  1.0 space for each classroom plus one
High                                  additional space for each 50 student
                                      capacity
                                      1.0 space for each seven students based
Schools, High School & post-secondary on design capacity plus one for each
                                      three classrooms
                                      1.0 space for each four seats based on
                                      the design capacity of the main assembly
                                      hall
Place of Public Assembly              - Facilities as may be provided in
                                      conjunction with places of public
                                      assembly shall be subject to additional
                                      requirements which are imposed by this
                                      chapter
Utilities (major)                     See Parking Schedule #2 [§
                                      153.067(H)(3)]
Commercial Uses
Adult Uses                            1.0 space for each 100 square feet of
                                      floor space
                                      1.0 space for each 40 square feet of
                                      floor space.
Auction House                         - Outside sales area shall be added to
                                      the floor space of the principal building
                                      when determining square footage of floor
                                      space
                                      8.0 spaces plus one additional space for
Auto Repair – Minor                 each 800 square feet of floor area over
                                      1,000 square feet
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type Minimum # of Spaces & Additional Requirements
TABLE 4-7: MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES BY USE
Use Type                             Minimum # of Spaces & Additional
                                     Requirements
Commercial Uses
                                     10.0 spaces or one space for each employee
                                     on the maximum shift, whichever is greater
                                     - For self service facilities, there shall
Automotive Wash Facilities           be a minimum of two spaces
                                     - If the wash facility is integrated into
                                     an approved vehicle fuel sales business,
                                     the wash facility shall require no
                                     additional parking
Bed & Breakfasts                     1.0 space for each rental unit in addition
                                     to required residential off-street parking
                                     1.0 space for each 200 square feet of
Business Support Services            floor space
                                     - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
Communications/Broadcast ing         1.0 space for each 400 square feet of
                                     floor space.
                                     1.0 space for each 200 square feet of
Convenience Stores                   floor space
                                     - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
                                     4.0 spaces per golf hole plus spaces
Country Club                         provided for accessory uses in accordance
                                     with this chapter
Day Care Centers                     1.0 space for each employee plus one space
                                     per five children
Entertainment/Recreation, Indoor Commercial
                                     5.0 spaces for each alley plus additional
   Bowling Alley                  spaces as may be required herein for
                                     related uses associated with the principal
                                     structure
                                     1.0 space for each four seats based on the
                                     design capacity of the main assembly hall;
                                     facilities as may be provided in
                                     conjunction with such buildings or uses
   Theater                        shall be subject to additional
                                     requirements imposed by this chapter
                                     - If the theater is located in the
                                     original plat of Monticello, the required
                                     spaces shall be reduced to 1.0 space per
                                     five seats
Other Uses                           See Parking Schedule #2 [§
                                     153.067(H)(3)]
Offices, Professional and Commercial 1.0 space for each 350 feet of floor space
Entertainment/Recreation, Outdoor    10.0 spaces plus one for each 100 square
Commercial                           feet of floor area inside an associated
                                     structure
                                     1.0 space for each two and one-half
                                     guests, measured by building capacity
                                     based on building code limits of all areas
Event Center                         for the event, and one parking space for
                                     each 200 square feet for areas devoted to
                                     food preparation, event staging, and other
                                     support activities.
Financial Institution                1.0 space for each 400 square feet of
                                     floor space.
                                     20.0 spaces for each chapel or parlor,
                                     plus one space for each funeral vehicle
Funeral Homes                        maintained on the premises
                                     - Aisle spaces shall also be provided off
                                     the street for making up a funeral
                                     procession
                                     1.0 space for each rental unit plus one
Hotels or Motels                     space for each ten units and one space for
                                     each employee on the maximum shift
Kennels (commercial)                 1.0 space for each 400 square feet of
                                     floor space.
Landscaping /Nursery Business        See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
                                     1.0 space for each 250 square feet of
Personal Services                    floor space
                                     - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
                                     1.0 space per each recreational vehicle
Recreational Vehicle Camp Site       plus one guest space per ten recreational
                                     vehicles
Repair Establishment                 See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Restaurants
   Sit down/dining area           1.0 space for each 40 square feet of gross
                                     floor area of dining and bar area
   Pick-up or Counter Area        1.0 space for each 15 square feet of gross
                                     floor area but not less than 15 spaces
   Kitchen Area                   1.0 space for each 80 square feet of
                                     kitchen area
Retail Commercial Uses
                                     1.0 spaces for each 200 square feet
   Grocery Uses                   - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
                                     1.0 space for each 200 square feet
                                     - If in the CCD district, one space per
   General Retail                 350 square feet of floor space
                                     - Home improvement retail uses shall
                                     require 1.0 space for each 225 square feet
   Convenience Retail             1.0 space for each 250 square feet
                                     1.0 space for each 200 square feet
Specialty Eating Establishments      - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
                                     4.0 spaces plus two spaces for each
                                     service stall (not pump)
                                     - Those facilities designed for sale of
Vehicle Fuel Sales                   other items than strictly automotive
                                     products, parts, or service shall be
                                     required to provide additional parking in
                                     compliance with other applicable sections
                                     of this chapter
                                     8.0 spaces plus one additional space for
Vehicle Sales and Rental             each 800 square feet of floor area over
                                     1,000 square feet
Veterinary Facilities                1.0 space for each 250 square feet
                                     1.0 space for each 200 square feet
Wholesale Sales                      - If in the CCD district, one space per
                                     350 square feet of floor space
Industrial Uses
Auto Repair – Major                See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Extraction of Materials              See Parking Schedule #2 [§
                                     153.067(H)(3)]
                                     8.0 spaces plus one space for each two
                                     employees on the maximum shift or, at a
General Warehousing                  minimum, at least eight spaces plus one
                                     space for each 1,000 square feet of floor
                                     area
                                     8.0 spaces plus one space for each two
                                     employees on the maximum shift or, at a
Truck or Freight Terminal            minimum, at least eight spaces plus one
                                     space for each 500 square feet of floor
                                     area
Waste Disposal & Incineration        See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Wrecker and Towing Services          See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Heavy Manufacturing                  See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Industrial Services                  See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Light Manufacturing                  See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Machinery/Truck Repair and Sales     See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
Recycling and Salvage Center         See Parking Schedule #1 [§
                                     153.067(H)(2)]
                                     1.0 space per 100 lockers/units on the
                                     inside of the fenced area and at least
                                     five spaces outside the fenced area
Self-Storage Facilities              - If a caretaker's quarters is provided
                                     on-site, at least one covered parking
                                     space for exclusive use by the caretaker
                                     shall be provided
 
            3.   Unusable space (e.g. entries, halls, service areas, bathrooms,
etc) within uses may be excluded from floor area calculations when applicable.
            4.    Required parking spaces may be reduced through alternative
development types (e.g. Planned Unit Development, etc) as permitted in this
chapter.
         (c)   CCD district exceptions. Property owners in the CCD District
shall comply with the parking supply requirements as listed in
Table 4-7 of this chapter. However, property owners may be granted flexibility
from a portion of their required parking supply under the following conditions:
            1.   Where the city finds that there will be adequate opportunity
to provide public parking in the vicinity of the subject property, and at the
city’s option, the owner shall pay into a “CCD” parking fund an amount as
established by City Council Resolution. Said fund shall be used for the
acquisition, construction, and/or maintenance of publicly-owned parking in the
“CCD” district.
            2.   The city may, in addition to, or as an alternative to, the
option listed in §
153.067(E)(4)(c)1. above, and at the discretion of the city, offer the property
owner the opportunity to choose to supply parking at a rate which is 60% of the
requirement listed in §
153.067 provided that the owner grants an easement to the public for automobile
parking use over the subject area. The owner shall retain responsibility for
maintenance of said parking area.
            3.   Location: Parking shall not be located on a parcel between the
front building line of the principal building and the public street, except
where expressly provided for by the City Council after recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
         (d)   Parking Stall Requirement: Schedule #1. Uses subject to Off-
Street Parking Schedule #1 must provide the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces indicated in Table 4-8, Off-Street Parking Schedule #1.
TABLE 4-8: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE #1
Activity Number of Spaces Required
TABLE 4-8: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE #1
Activity                                       Number of Spaces Required
Office or administrative area                  1.0 space per 300 square feet
Indoor sales area                              1.0 space per 200 square feet
Outdoor sales, display, or storage area (3,000 1.0 space per 750 square feet
sq. ft. or less)
Outdoor sales, display, or storage area (over  1.0 space per 1,000 square feet
3,000 sq. ft.)
Indoor Storage/Warehousing/Vehicle Repair/Manufacturing Area
Less than or equal to 3,000 sq. ft.            1.0 space per 200 square feet
3,000 to 5,000 sq. ft.                         1.0 space per 500 square feet
5,000 to 10,000 sq. ft.                        1.0 space per 750 square feet
Greater than 10,000 sq. ft.                    1.0 space per 1,250 square feet
 
         (e)   Parking Stall Requirement: Schedule #2. Uses subject to Off-
Street Parking Schedule #2 have widely varying parking demand characteristics,
making it very difficult to specify a single appropriate off-street parking
standard. Upon receiving a development application for a use subject to
Schedule #2 standards, the Community Development Department is authorized to
apply the off-street parking and loading standard specified for the listed use
that is deemed most similar to the proposed use or establish minimum off-street
parking requirements on the basis of a parking study prepared by the applicant.
The study must include estimates of parking demand based on recommendations of
the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE) or other acceptable estimates as
approved by the Community Development Department, and should include other
reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the same as
or comparable with the proposed use. Comparability will be determined by
density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location. The study must
document the source of data used to develop the recommendations.
      (5)   Vehicular use area design conditional use permit. Stall aisle and
driveway design requirements outlined in §
153.067 may be lessened subject to the following conditions:
         (a)    Any reduction in requirements as provided in this section
requires completion of the conditional use permit process outlined in §
153.028(D).
         (b)    Where a proposed use clearly demonstrates affirmative design
efforts toward the preservation and enhancement of desirable natural site
characteristics, ordinance-required paved parking spaces may be reduced and
installation deferred until such time as the need for the full complement of
parking. The need shall be determined in conformance with a "proof of parking"
plan so approved through a conditional use permit.
         (c)   The applicant must show, and the Planning Commission must find,
that there are existing nonconformities of the property or specific
circumstances related to site conditions which justify a deferral to the
paving, landscaping, or curbing requirements.
         (d)   A deferral shall be considered by the city as a part of an
application which includes full site plans, drawn to scale, of both the
immediate paving, landscaping and curbing improvements and the ultimate paving,
landscaping, and curbing improvements.
         (e)   In all districts other than the A-O District, this deferral
shall apply only to the required paving, curbing and landscaping which is
applicable to the existing portion of the use and building. Paving, curbing and
landscaping attributable to any expansion shall be installed at the time of the
expansion.
      (6)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of
the lessee and owner of the principal use, uses, or building to maintain in a
neat and adequate manner, the parking space, accessways striping, landscaping,
and required fences.
   (F)   Standards applicable to residential uses.
      (1)   Location of required parking in residential areas.
         (a)    For single-family and two-family dwellings, off-street parking
on a paved driveway within 15 feet of any street surface shall be allowed as
long as it does not block any public sidewalk or pathway. For single-family and
two-family dwellings, parking shall be located as found in
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11. Parking on any side of any detached accessory structure shall be
prohibited except in such case that the detached accessory structure is the
only garage for the property.
         (b)   In the case of townhouse dwellings, parking shall be prohibited
in any portion of the front yard except designated driveways leading directly
into a garage or one open paved space located on the side of a driveway away
from the principal use. Said extra space shall be surfaced with concrete or
bituminous material.  
         (c)   Parking and/or storage of passenger vehicles, recreational
vehicles and equipment, emergency vehicles, and small commercial vehicles shall
conform to the requirements of
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11. For the purposes of
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11, emergency vehicles shall be treated as “small commercial
vehicles”, but without limitations as to size.
         (d)   Under no circumstances shall large commercial vehicles be parked
or stored in residential zoning districts, or on property that is used for
residential purposes.
TABLE 4-9: YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS & DRIVEWAYS IN
RESIDENTIAL AREAS
         Diagram Passenger Recreational Emergency    Small
Location Area    Vehicles  Vehicles [1] Vehicles [1] Commercial   Other Notes
         Key     [1]                                 Vehicles [1]
TABLE 4-9: YARD REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS & DRIVEWAYS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
          Diagram Passenger               Emergency  Small
Location  Area    Vehicles   Recreational Vehicles   Commercial Other Notes
          Key     [1]        Vehicles [1] [1]        Vehicles
                                                     [1]
Driveway
leading
directly
into a            Any number One such     One such   Any number
garage    A       (paved)    vehicle      vehicle    (paved)     
within                       (paved)      (paved)
the front
yard of a
lot
Parking                      One such
space             One        vehicle, if             One
adjacent          passenger  it is the               passenger
to the            or small   only such    One such   or small
driveway  B       commercial vehicle      vehicle    commercial  
within            vehicle    within the   (paved)    vehicle
the front         (paved)    front yard              (paved)
yard of a                    (surfaced)
lot
Other
portions
of the    C       No         No           No         No          
front
yard
                  Yes,                    Yes,       Yes,
                  within a   Yes, within  within a   within a
Side              space      a space      space      space
yard,             consisting consisting   consisting consisting
adjacent  D       of the 15  of the 15    of the 15  of the 15  Must maintain minimum 3 foot setback to side lot line in all cases
to garage         feet       feet         feet       feet
side of           adjacent   adjacent to  adjacent   adjacent
structure         to the     the building to the     to the
                  building   (unsurfaced) building   building
                  (surfaced)              (surfaced) (surfaced)
Side yard
more than
15 feet   E       No         No           No         No          
from
garage
Side yard
on
opposite
side of   F       No         No           No         No          
house
from
garage
                  Yes,       Yes, within  Yes,       Yes,
                  within a   a space      within a   within a
Side yard         space      consisting   space      space
on corner         consisting of the 15    consisting consisting
lot       G       of the 15  feet         of the 15  of the 15  Must maintain minimum 6 foot setback to side lot line in all cases.
facing a          feet       adjacent to  feet       feet
public            adjacent   the          adjacent   adjacent
street            to the     building.    to the     to the
                  building   (unsurfaced) building   building
                  (surfaced)              (surfaced) (surfaced)
Rear yard H       No         Yes          No         No         No current limit to number of such vehicles – must maintain a 3 foot
                             (unsurfaced)                       setback to lot line
[1] See §
153.012 for definition.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1954.png]
 
      (2)    Vehicular use area design in residential areas.
         (a)    Curb cuts and access.
            1.    Single- family uses shall be limited to one curb cut access
per property.
            2.    Curb cut access shall be at a minimum three feet from the
side yard property line in residential districts.
            3.   For single and two-family uses, a driveway or other impervious
surface leading to a detached accessory structure in the rear yard shall
require authorization through conditional use permit, unless such driveway
serves a structure in the rear yard that is the only garage for the residential
use.
         (b)   Surfacing. Paving and surfacing requirements for parking and
storage of passenger vehicles, emergency vehicles, recreational vehicles, and
small commercial vehicles for single and two-family dwellings shall be as found
in
Table 4-9 and
Figure 4-11.
         (c)   Residential district garage requirements. In all residential
zoning districts, all detached single-family homes, two-family and duplex units
shall include development of an attached or detached garage. The minimum size
requirement for the garage floor shall be 450 sq. ft. with a maximum door
height of nine ft. and minimum garage door opening of 16 ft. with the following
exceptions and/or deviations by district:
            1.   R-1 District. An attached garage of at least 550 square feet
shall be constructed as part of any single-family home.
            2.   R-A District.
               a.   An attached garage of at least 700 square feet shall be
constructed as part of any single-family home.
               b.   Garage frontage: From side building line to side building
line of any single-family structure, no more than 40% of such building width
shall consist of garage doors that face the street. Side or rear loaded garages
are not subject to this regulation. An exception shall be made for garage doors
that face the street, but are set back at least ten feet in back of the front
building line of the principal use.
               c.   No portion of any garage space may be more than five feet
closer to the street than the front building line of the principal single-
family use.
            3.   R-2 District. An attached garage of at least 450 square feet
shall be constructed as part of any single-family home.
            4.   T-N District.
               a.   A garage of at least 480 square feet, attached or detached,
shall be constructed as a part of any single-family home.
               b.   Garage frontage: From side building line to side building
line of any single-family structure, no more than 50% of such building width
shall consist of garage doors that face the street. Side or rear loaded
garages, or detached garages in the rear yard, are not subject to this
regulation. An exception shall be made for garage doors that face the street,
but are set back at least ten feet in back of the front building line of the
principal use.
               c.   No portion of any garage space may be more than five feet
closer to the street than the front building line of the principal single-
family use.
   (G)   Standards applicable to commercial, industrial and civic/institutional
uses.
      (1)   Location of required parking for commercial, industrial and civic/
institutional uses.
         (a)   In business, industrial and institutional areas, no parking area
may be located upon a public drainage and/or utility easement adjoining a
public street without an encroachment agreement approved by the Community
Development Department.
         (b)   In the B-1 district, off-street parking shall not include semi-
trailer trucks.
      (2)   Vehicular use area design applicable to commercial, industrial &
civic/institutional uses.
         (a)   Access and curbing.
            1.   Curb cut access in industrial and commercial zoning districts
may exceed 24 feet with the approval of the Community Development Department.
Denial by the Community Development Department of curb cut access in excess of
24 feet may be appealed following the procedures outlined in §
153.028(H).
            2.   Curb cut access shall not be closer than six feet to any lot
line as measured from the lot line to the face of the curb. An exception to the
setback requirement shall be granted in business districts where adjoining
business provide for private cross access between parking lots.
            3.   All off-street parking areas and driveways shall have a six-
inch non-surmountable continuous concrete curb around the perimeter of the
parking area and driveways. The Community Development Department may approve
bituminous curbing as a temporary measure under the following conditions:
               a.   If the area is shown by adequate site plans and reasonable
growth to be subject to a future expansion of the driveway and/or parking area.
               b.   The area is shown by adequate site plans to be able to
control site traffic and circulation as recommended by the Community
Development Department. The Community Development Department may approve
movable curb stops as a temporary traffic control measure.
               c.   The area is shown by adequate drainage plans to be able to
control drainage as recommended by the Community Development Department. The
Community Development Department may approve bituminous curbing as a temporary
drainage control measure.
         (b)   Parking setbacks for the CCD District.
            1.   From public street right-of-way: Six feet.
            2.   From private property: Six feet, except that parking lots may
provide shared access driveways or spaces between adjoining private parking
lots. In the CCD, such shared access driveways or spaces shall be permitted,
exempt from the requirement for a conditional use permit applicable in other
zoning districts.
         (c)   Perimeter vehicular use buffer.
            1.     Open, non-residential off-street parking areas shall be
designed to screen headlights from abutting residential districts through the
use of a half-berm design. Said design shall be required in all instances where
headlights are directed at surrounding or abutting residential properties. A
half-berm is required in addition to any buffer yard landscaping requirements
with a design - as illustrated in Figure 4-12.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1956.png]
 
            2.   In the event that drainage or other conditions do not permit a
berm of this size and for parcels in the CCD district which abut residentially
zoned property, a solid, maintenance free fence may be permitted for all or a
portion of the retaining wall to the extent necessary to permit property
drainage. Examples may include a two-foot retaining wall and berm, with a four
foot tall fence section. This alternative may be allowed by conditional use
permit. Any fence proposed in lieu of the required design must be 100% opaque
and in character with the surrounding area.
      (3)   Joint facilities for commercial, industrial & civic/institutional
uses. A conditional use permit for one or more businesses to provide the
required off-street parking facilities by joint use of one or more sites where
the total number of spaces provided are less than the sum of the total required
for each business should they provide them separately. When considering a
request for such a permit, the Planning Commission shall not recommend that
such permit be granted nor the Council approve such a permit except when the
following conditions are found to exist:
         (a)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities required for a theatre,
bowling alley, dance hall, bar, or restaurant may be supplied by the off-street
parking facilities provided by types of uses specified as a primarily daytime
use in division (d) below.
         (b)   Up to 50% of the off-street parking facilities required for any
use specified under division (d) below as primary daytime uses may be supplied
by the parking facilities provided by the following nighttime or Sunday uses:
Auditoriums incidental to a public or parochial school, churches, bowling
alleys, dance halls, theatres, bars, or restaurants.
         (c)   Up to 80% of the parking facilities required by §
153.067 for a church or for an auditorium incidental to a public or parochial
school may be supplied by off-street parking facilities provided by uses
specified under division (d) below as primarily daytime uses.
         (d)   For the purpose of this section, the following uses are
considered as primarily daytime uses: Banks, business offices, retail stores,
personal service shops, household equipment or furniture shops, clothing or
shoe repair or service shops, manufacturing, wholesale, and similar uses.
         (e)   Conditions required for joint use:
            1.   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities with the following
exception: For theatres located in the Original Plat of Monticello, theatre
parking provided by another use shall be located within 500 feet of said
theatre.
            2.   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
            3.   A properly drawn legal instrument executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Administrator and recorded with the County Recorder, Wright County.
      (4)   Cross parking facilities for commercial, industrial and civic/
institutional uses. Adjoining business properties may allow cross parking and/
or access if authorized by a conditional use per the requirements of §
153.028(D) and subject the following conditions:
         (a)   The required island and landscaping requirements in §
153.060 are met.
         (b)   The vehicular use area meets the required setback at the
perimeter of the parcels in question.
         (c)   The curb cut access locations to the parking lot(s) are approved
by the city.
         (d)   A shared parking/access and maintenance agreement is provided by
the parking owners and recorded against all subject properties.
         (e)   A properly drawn legal instrument executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Administrator and recorded with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 833, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 153.068 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulation of loading spaces in these zoning regulations
is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and so to
promote the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum
requirements for off-street loading and unloading from motor vehicles in
accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land or structures.
   (B)   Location.
      (1)   All required loading berths shall be off-street and located on the
same lot as the building or use to be served.
      (2)   The location of required loading births shall be such that
circulation occurs within the designated site or property and does not depend
upon a public street or alley.
      (3)   All loading berth curb cuts shall be located at a minimum 50 feet
from the intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall
be measured from the property line.
      (4)   No loading berth shall be located closer than 50 feet from a
residential district unless within a structure.
      (5)   Loading berths shall not occupy the front yard setbacks.
      (6)   Loading berths located at the front or at the side of buildings on
a corner lot shall only be permitted if the following conditions can be met:
         (a)   Loading berths shall not conflict with pedestrian movement.
         (b)   Loading berths shall not obstruct the view of the public right-
of-way from off-street parking access.
         (c)   Loading berths shall comply with all other requirements of §
153.067.
         (d)   All screening requirements of §
153.060(I) are met.
      (7)   Each loading berth shall be located with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner which will cause the
least interference with traffic.
   (C)   Surfacing. All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with
not less than six-inch class five base and two-inch bituminous surfacing to
control the dust and drainage according to a plan submitted to and subject to
the approval of the Community Development Department.
   (D)   Accessory use, parking and storage. Any space allocated as a required
loading berth or access drive so as to comply with the terms of these zoning
regulations shall not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles, or
snow shall not be included as part of the space requirements to meet the off-
street area.
   (E)   Screening. All loading areas shall be screened and landscaped in
compliance with §
153.060(I), of this chapter.
   (F)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in these zoning regulations, the
first loading berth shall be not less than 55 feet in length, and all loading
berths shall be not less than 30 feet in length. All loading berths shall be
not less than ten feet in width and 14 feet in height, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space.
   (G)   Number of loading berths required. The number of required off-street
loading berths shall be as follows:
      (1)   Manufacturing, fabrication, processing, warehousing, storing,
retail sales, schools and hotels. For such a building 5,000 to 100,000 square
feet of floor area, one loading 55 feet in length and one additional berth for
each additional 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof, plus one berth 30 feet
in length for each 35,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Auditorium, convention hall, exhibition hall, sports arena or
stadium. Ten thousand to 100,000 square feet of floor area, one loading berth;
for each additional 100,000 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof, one
additional loading berth.
§ 153.069 GRADING, DRAINAGE, STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapters 103B and 462, as they may
be amended from time to time; Minn. Rules, Parts 6120.2500-6120.3900, Minn.
Rules Chapters 8410, 8420 and 70510.0210.
      (2)   Findings. The City of Monticello finds that uncontrolled stormwater
runoff and construction site erosion from land development and land disturbing
activities can have significant adverse impacts upon local and regional water
resources, diminishing the quality of public health, safety, public and private
property and natural resources of the community.
      (3)   Purpose. The general purpose of this section is to establish
regulatory requirements for land development and land disturbing activities
aimed at minimizing the threats to public health, safety, public and private
property and natural resources within the community resulting from construction
site erosion and post-construction stormwater runoff.
      (4)    This chapter is intended to meet the current construction site
erosion and sediment and waste control and post-construction stormwater
management regulatory requirements for construction activity and small
construction activity (NPDES Permit) as defined in 40 CFR pt. 122.26(b)(14)(x)
and (b)(15), respectively.
      (5)   This chapter is intended to meet the minimal impact design
standards (MIDS) developed under M.S. 2009, § 115.03, subdivision 5c, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions for the following terms can be found in §
153.012.
      (1)   Best management practices (BMPs).
      (2)   Contractor.
      (3)   Dewatering.
      (4)   Erosion.
      (5)   Erosion prevention.
      (6)   Final stabilization.
      (7)   Impervious surface.
      (8)   Land disturbing activity.
      (9)   Owner.
      (10)   Permanent cover.
      (11)   Sediment.
      (12)   Stabilized.
      (13)   Stormwater.
      (14)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      (15)   Surface water or waters.
      (16)   Temporary erosion protection.
   (C)   Permits.
      (1)   The thresholds for required grading, drainage, stormwater
management and erosion control permits along with the permit review process is
outlined in §
153.028(M).
      (2)   The permittee(s) shall be responsible for obtaining required
permits from other government agencies prior to conducting grading work (e.g.
dewatering a site for development will require one or more permits from the
MPCA).
   (D)   Grading, drainage, stormwater management, and erosion control plan
requirements. Grading, drainage, stormwater management and erosion control
plans are required for any activities that require a grading permit as defined
in §
153.028(M). The plans shall contain the following information and be in
conformance with the city’s plan requirements and design guidelines (“design
manual”):
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, a legal description of the
site, north point, date and scale of drawing and number of sheets;
      (2)   An existing site map: a map of existing site conditions showing the
site and immediately adjacent areas, which shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Existing topography with a contour interval appropriate to the
topography of the land but in no case having a contour interval greater than
two feet;
         (b)   A delineation of all surface waters located on and immediately
adjacent to the site, including depth of water, a description of all vegetation
which may be found in the water, a statement of general water quality and any
classification given to the water body or wetland by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and/or the United
States Army Corps of Engineers;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of existing stormwater drainage
systems and natural drainage patterns on and immediately adjacent to the site
delineating the direction and the rate the stormwater is conveyed from the
site, identifying the receiving stream, river, public water, or wetland and
setting forth those areas of the unaltered site where stormwater collects;
         (d)   A description of the soils of the site, including a map
indicating soil types of areas to be disturbed as well as a soil report
containing information on the suitability of the soils for the type of
development proposed and for the type of sewage disposal proposed which
describes any remedial steps to be taken by the applicant to render the soils
suitable;
         (e)   The location and type of vegetative cover on the site and
clearly delineating any vegetation proposed for removal;
         (f)   One-hundred-year floodplain, flood fringes and floodways
boundaries; and
         (g)   The location of any water body, and any biologically or
archaeologically significant areas within one mile of the site that is
identified as: (CGP Part I.B.6).
            1.   Impaired pursuant to section 303(d) of the Federal Clean Water
Act (33 U.S.C. section 303(d)) where the identified pollutant(s) or stressor(s)
are phosphorus (nutrient eutrophication biological indicators), turbidity,
dissolved oxygen or aquatic biota (fish bioassessment, aquatic plant
bioassessment and aquatic macroinvertebrate bioassessment), and with or without
a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) approved Total Maximum Daily
Load (TMDL) for any of these identified pollutant(s) or stressors(s) also
meeting the specific impaired waters criteria of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
construction general permit (Permit No: MN R10001), regarding construction-site
erosion and sediment control;
            2.   An outstanding resource value waters as listed in Minn. Rules
7050.0180, subp. 3, 4, 5, 6, 6a and 6b;
            3.   A trout waters as listed in Minn. Rules 6264.0050, subp. 2 and
4;
            4.   A wetland defined in Minn. Rules 7050.0186 subd.1a.B;
            5.   Any lands where state or federally listed endangered or
threatened species are known to occur, or properties listed in the National
Register of Historic Places, including archaeological sites may be impacted.
      (3)   A site construction plan which shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed land disturbing
activities and any phasing of those activities;
         (b)   Locations and dimensions of all temporary soil or dirt
stockpiles;
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of all erosion prevention measures and
best management practices necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter;
         (d)   Schedule of anticipated start and completion dates of each land
disturbing activity including the dates of installation of erosion prevention
measures for each phase needed to meet the requirements of this chapter; and
         (e)   Provisions for maintenance of the erosion and sediment
prevention measures prior to final stabilization.
      (4)   A plan of final site conditions, which shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Finished grading shown at contours at the same interval as
provided on the existing site map to clearly indicate the relationship of
proposed changes to the site’s existing topography and remaining features;
         (b)   A landscape plan, drawn to an appropriate scale, including
dimensions and distances and the location, type, size and description of all
proposed landscape materials that will be added to the site;
         (c)   A drainage plan of the developed site delineating in which
direction and the rate stormwater will be conveyed from the site and setting
forth the areas of the site where stormwater will be allowed to collect;
         (d)   The proposed size, alignments and intended use of any structures
to be erected on the site;
         (e)   A clear delineation and tabulation of all impervious surfaces to
be installed on the site, including a description of the surfacing material to
be used;
         (f)   Any other information pertinent to the particular project which
in the opinion of the applicant is necessary for the review of the project;
         (g)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures. Required specifications are referenced in the City
of Monticello’s Design Manual;
         (h)   Provisions for maintenance of erosion and sediment plan,
specifically in boulevards, easements and other public areas, and estimates of
the cost of maintenance;
         (i)   Provisions for regular permittee inspections of all control
measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the approved
grading, drainage, stormwater management and erosion control plan(s); and
         (j)   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and approved or
disapproved in the same manner as a new application per the requirements of §
153.028(M).
      (5)    A copy of the applicant’s Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s
Permit for discharging stormwater from construction activity (MN R100001), if
the area of disturbed land is equal to or greater than one acre or if project
meets the definition of common plan of development that covers one acre or
more. A stormwater pollution prevention plan must be prepared and must meet the
NPDES requirements and conform to the SWPPP standards specified in the MPCA
NPDES construction general permit (Permit No: MN R10001).
   (E)   Stormwater management. Plan required: The proposed provisions for
stormwater runoff shall be documented in a stormwater management plan including
a narrative, prepared by a Minnesota licensed engineer to stating how the
proposed activity meets the requirements of the City of Monticello’s Design
Manual.
      (1)   Minimum standards for runoff water management plans. A runoff water
management plan shall include the following items:
         (a)   A map containing a delineation of the subwatershed contributing
runoff from off site, and proposed and existing subwatersheds on site. The
delineation shall conform to the nomenclature of the water resources management
plan and shall indicate any significant departures from the watershed
delineation of the water resources management plan
         (b)   Delineation of existing on site "wetlands", as defined in the
Wetland Conservation Act, lakes, watercourses, shoreland, and/or floodplain
areas.
         (c)   For water bodies and channels, a listing of normal (runout) and
calculated ten-year and 100-year elevations on site for both existing and
proposed conditions.
         (d)   Stormwater runoff volumes and rates for existing and proposed
conditions.
         (e)   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations completed to design
the proposed stormwater management facilities. Reservoir routing procedures and
critical duration runoff events shall be used for design of water storage areas
and outlets.
         (f)   A checklist of best management practices to demonstrate that, to
the maximum extent practical, the plan has incorporated the structural and
nonstructural best management practices described in the book "Protecting Water
Quality In Urban Areas", published by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or
the applicable publications.
         (g)   A grading plan identifying stormwater overflow routes along
streets or drainage easements designed to protect structures from damage due
to:
            1.   Storms in excess of the design storm; or
            2.   Clogging, collapse or other failure of the primary drainage
facilities.
         (h)   An assessment of the potential for construction or contribution
to regional detention basins, as opposed to the construction of on-site
stormwater basins. The water resources management plan identifies potential
regional stormwater basins for control of rate and nutrient loading. The
following criteria shall be used to determine whether on site storage is
required within the subdivision:
            1.   If the stormwater management plan indicates construction or
enlargement of a storage site or water quality storage in a wetland or other
water body, the facility or its equivalent shall be constructed to meet the
goals of the water resources management plan.
            2.   If a proposed subdivision is indirectly tributary to a water
body and the intervening regional detention storage is inadequate, in the
opinion of city staff, to meet the water quality goals for downstream water
bodies as described in the water resources management plan, additional on-site
stormwater basin construction will be required to meet these goals.
            3.   If a proposed subdivision will increase rates of runoff and
where downstream stormwater storage or conveyance facilities are inadequate to
protect downstream riparian owners from effects of these increases, then on
site stormwater storage must be constructed to restrict stormwater rates to the
predevelopment rates.
      (2)   Where on site water quality detention basins are required, the
permittee(s) will have to comply with the design and sizing requirements
determined by the City of Monticello’s Design Manual.
      (3)   Maintenance of private stormwater management facilities.
         (a)   No private stormwater management facilities may be approved
unless a maintenance plan is provided and is consistent with the City’s Design
Manual. All such facilities shall be inspected annually, with reports submitted
to the city, and maintained in proper condition consistent with the performance
standards for which they were originally designed.
         (b)   Owners of private stormwater management facilities shall provide
an agreement to the city describing responsibility for the long-term operation
and maintenance of the facilities.
      (4)   Public stormwater management facilities – easements. The applicant
shall establish, in a form acceptable to the city, temporary and perpetual
easements, or dedicated outlots, for ponding, flowage, and drainage purposes
over hydrologic features such as water bodies and stormwater basins. The
easements or outlots shall include the right of reasonable access for
inspection, monitoring, maintenance, and enforcement purposes.
   (F)   Construction requirements.
      (1)   Construction specifications.
         (a)   Site dewatering and basin draining: Water pumped from the site
shall be treated by temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand
filters, upflow chambers, hydrocyclones, swirl concentrators or other
appropriate controls as appropriate. Water shall not be discharged in a manner
that causes erosion, scour, sedimentation or flooding of the site, receiving
channels or wetlands.
         (b)   Grading, erosion and sediment controls as specified in the
City’s Design Manual.
         (c)   Tracking: All roads, access drives and parking areas must
utilize a temporary tracking pad and must be of sufficient width and length to
prevent sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways and/or the
stormwater conveyance system. Temporary tracking pads must be installed and
maintained in all locations on the site where vehicles enter and exit.
         (d)   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, shall not be permitted, except when in compliance with all provisions
of this chapter. Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and
drainage patterns shall be recommended as necessary and used to the
satisfaction of the Community Development Department.
         (e)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control
devices, shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed
and have been stabilized.
         (f)   Building products that have the potential to leach pollutants
must be under cover (e.g., plastic sheeting or temporary roofs) to prevent the
discharge of pollutants or protected by a similarly effective means designed to
minimize contact with stormwater.
         (g)   Pesticides, herbicides, insecticides, fertilizers, treatment
chemicals, and landscape materials must be under cover (e.g., plastic sheeting
or temporary roofs) to prevent the discharge of pollutants or protected by a
similarly effective means designed to minimize contact with stormwater.
         (h)   Fueling and maintenance of equipment or vehicles; spill
prevention and response: The permittee(s) shall take reasonable steps to
prevent the discharge of spilled or leaked chemicals, including fuel, from any
area where chemicals or fuel will be loaded or unloaded including the use of
drip pans or absorbents unless infeasible. The permittee(s) must conduct
fueling in a contained area unless infeasible. The permittee(s) must ensure
adequate supplies are available at all times to clean up discharged materials
and that an appropriate disposal method is available for recovered spill
materials. The permittee(s) must report and clean up spills immediately as
required by M.S. § 115.061, as it may be amended from time to time, using dry
cleanup measures where possible.
         (i)   Phasing may be required on all sites based on site specifics,
with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as approved by
the Community Development Department.
         (j)   Silt fence or equivalent sediment control measures to be used
must conform to the city’s standards.
         (k)   Silt fences or equivalent sediment control measures must be
installed along the downslope and sideslope perimeters and up-gradient of any
buffer zones from the approved grading and construction limits before any up-
gradient land-disturbing activities begin. Perimeter controls should be located
to maintain a buffer of existing vegetation during construction, as site
conditions allow, along the edges of any curbs, wetlands, channels or other
water resources that could receive sediment from the site. These controls shall
remain in place until final stabilization has been established.
         (l)   Sufficient silt fence or equivalent sediment control measures
are required to hold all sheet flow runoff generated at an individual site to
minimize sediment from entering surface waters, including curb and gutter
systems and storm sewer systems. Additional measures such as check dams,
diversion, temporary or permanent sedimentation basins and drainage ditches are
required to handle channelized flow. Additional upgradient sediment control
practices or redundant BMPs shall be installed if down gradient sediment
controls are overloaded (based on frequent failure or excessive maintenance
requirement) (CGP Part IV.C.1.a-b).
         (m)   All storm drain inlets must be protected during construction
until all sources with potential for discharging to the inlet have been
stabilized (CGP Part IV.C.4).
         (n)   Soil stabilization shall be initiated immediately to limit soil
erosion but in no case completed later than 14 days after construction activity
in that portion of the site has temporarily or permanently ceased, and seven
days if discharge points are located within one-mile of an impaired or special
waterbody.
         (o)   Final stabilization on all sites shall become established within
six months. The City of Monticello may require the site to be reseeded or a
non-vegetative option employed.
         (p)   Seeding shall be in accordance with the city's current seeding
specification as detailed in the Design Manual. All seeded areas shall be
fertilized, mulched, and disc anchored as necessary for seed retention.
         (q)   Special techniques that meet the design criteria outlined in
Design Manual shall be in place on steep slopes or in drainage ways to ensure
stabilization.
         (r)   Soil stockpiles which shall be inactive for a period of seven or
more days shall include provisions for perimeter sediment controls. The
placement of soil stockpiles adjacent to public rights-of-way or waterways is
prohibited.
         (s)   The entire site must be stabilized to a minimum of 70% coverage,
using a heavy mulch layer or another method that does not require germination
to control erosion, at the close of the construction season.
         (t)   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or
sediment from the site.
         (u)   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall
be employed.
         (v)   For sites that have more than ten acres of disturbed soil that
drains to a common location, one or more temporary sediment basins shall be
constructed. Use of temporary basins is encouraged when construction projects
will impact steep slopes or when highly erodible soils are present. The basin
shall provide treatment to the runoff before it leaves the construction site or
enters surface waters. The temporary sediment basins must be designed and
constructed as follows:
            1.   Provide live storage for a calculated volume of runoff from a
two-year, 24-hour storm from each acre drained to the basin. All basins shall
provide at least 1,800 cubic feet of live storage from each acre drained or
more.
            2.   For basins where the calculation from the previous requirement
has not been performed, a temporary sediment basin providing 3,600 cubic feet
of live storage from each acre drained to the basin shall be provided.
            3.   The outlet structure must be designed to withdraw water from
the surface in order to minimize the discharge of pollutants.
            4.   The basin outlet shall be designed to prevent short-circuiting
and the discharge of floating debris.
            5.   Ensure the basin can be completely drawn down to conduct
maintenance activities.
            6.   Include energy dissipation on the outlet of the basin and a
stabilized emergency overflow to prevent failure of pond integrity.
            7.   Be located outside of surface waters or any buffer zone, and
be designed to avoid draining water from wetlands unless appropriate approval
from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources is obtained.
            8.   If installation of a temporary sediment basin is infeasible,
equivalent sediment controls such as smaller sediment basins, and/or sediment
traps, silt fences, vegetative buffer strips, or any appropriate combination of
measures are required for all down-slope boundaries of the construction area
and for side-slope boundaries where appropriate. Determination of infeasibility
shall be documented in the erosion and sediment control plan.
      (2)   Waterway and watercourse protection requirements. The permittee(s)
shall implement the following waterway and watercourse measures on the site:
         (a)   A temporary stream crossing installed and approved by the local
government unit and regulating agency if a wet watercourse will be crossed
regularly during construction.
         (b)   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during, and
within 24 hours after any in-channel work.
         (c)   The normal wetted perimeter of any temporary or permanent
drainage ditch or swale that drains water from the site, or diverts water
around a site must be stabilized within 24 hours of connecting to a surface
water and within 200 feet of the water’s edge of a public waters that drains to
waters where the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources has promulgated
“work in water restrictions” during specified fish spawning time frames (CGP
Part IV.A.2).
         (d)   Portions of the ditch that are under construction must be
stabilized within 24 hours after the construction activity in that portion has
ceased. The normal wetted perimeter is defined as the area that is in contact
with water during annual flow events.
         (e)   All on-site stormwater conveyance channels designed according to
the criteria outlined in the plan requirements and design guidelines.
         (f)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the outlets
of all pipes and paved channels.
      (3)   Pollution prevention management measures. The permittee(s) shall
implement the following pollution prevention management measures on the site:
         (a)   Solid waste: Collected sediment, asphalt and concrete millings,
floating debris, paper, plastic, fabric, construction and demolition debris and
other wastes must be disposed of properly and must comply with MPCA disposal
requirements.
         (b)   Hazardous materials: Oil, gasoline, paint and any hazardous
substances must be properly stored, including secondary containment, to prevent
spills, leaks or other discharge. Restricted access to storage areas must be
provided to prevent vandalism. Storage and disposal of hazardous waste must be
in compliance with MPCA regulations.
         (c)   External washing of trucks and other construction vehicles must
be limited to a defined area of the site. Runoff must be contained and waste
properly disposed of. No engine degreasing is allowed on site.
         (d)   Portable toilets must be positioned so that they are secure and
will not be tipped or knocked over. Sanitary waste must be disposed of properly
in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 7041.
         (e)   Concrete and other washout waste must have effective containment
for all liquid and solid wastes generated by these operations related to the
construction activity. The liquid and solid washout wastes must not contact the
ground outside a proper containment area. Waste must be disposed of properly
and in compliance with MPCA rules, and a sign must be installed adjacent to
each washout facility.
      (4)   Special and impaired waters. Additional BMPs together with enhanced
runoff controls are required for discharge from a site to special and impaired
water as defined by Appendix A of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
General Stormwater Permit for Construction Activity.
   (G)   Inspection.
      (1)   Notification. The Erosion Control Inspector shall make inspections
as hereinafter required and either shall approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan as approved.
      (2)   Procedure. The city shall inspect all permit sites once per week
and within 24 hours after a rain event greater than one-half inch. The city
shall also require inspections at other development benchmarks as follows and
as applicable. Inspections must be continued until final stabilization has
occurred. To obtain inspections, the permittee shall notify the City of
Monticello at least one working day before the following:
         (a)   Installation of sediment and erosion control measures;
         (b)   Start of construction or site development;
         (c)   Close of the construction season;
         (d)   Completion of final stabilization/landscaping;
         (e)   Removal of erosion control measures;
         (f)   Final project compliance and acceptance close-out.
      (3)   Material requirements. Seed tags shall be submitted to the Erosion
Control Inspector for approval prior to commencing work. Proof of application
rates shall be provided.
      (4)   Permittee inspection. The permittee or his/her agent shall also
make regular inspections of all control measures in accordance with the
inspection schedule outlined on the approved grading, drainage and erosion
control plan(s). The purpose of such inspections will be to determine the
overall effectiveness of the control plan and the need for additional control
measures. All inspections shall be documented in written form and submitted to
the City of Monticello at the time interval specified in the approved permit.
The records of each inspection and maintenance activity shall include the
following information:
         (a)   Date and time of inspection;
         (b)   Name(s) of persons conducting the inspection;
         (c)   Findings of inspections, including recommendations for
corrective actions;
         (d)   Corrective actions taken, including the dates, times and the
name of the party completing the corrective action;
         (e)   Date and the amount of rainfall events that are greater than
one-half inch in a 24-hour period; and
         (f)   Documentation of any changes made to the Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan.
      (5)   Authorization. A member of the Community Development Department
shall enter the property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make regular
inspections to ensure the validity of the reports filed under §
153.068(E)(4).
   (H)   Site maintenance.
      (1)   Responsibilities.
         (a)   Within 24 hours, the permittee shall clean dirt and debris from
streets that has resulted from construction work by the developer, home
builders, subcontractors, their agents or assigns. Prior to any construction in
the plat, the developer shall provide the Community Development Department with
a schedule for erosion and sediment control inspection, street cleaning, and
street sweeping.
         (b)   All silt fences and biorolls must be repaired, replaced or
supplemented when they become nonfunctional or the sediment reached one-half of
the height of the fence or bioroll. Repairs shall be made within 24 hours of
discovery or as soon as field conditions allow access.
         (c)   Temporary and permanent sedimentation basins must be drained and
the sediment must be removed when the depth of the sediment collected in the
basin reached one-half the storage volume. Drainage and removal must be
completed within 72 hours of discovery or as soon as final conditions allow
access.
         (d)   The applicant shall remove all deltas and sediment deposited in
the surface waters, including drainage ways, catch basins, and other drainage
systems and must restabilize the areas where sediment removal results in
exposed soil. The removal and stabilization must take place within seven days
of discovery unless precluded by legal, regulatory or physical access
constraints. In the event of an access constraint, the applicant shall use all
reasonable efforts to obtain access. If the access is precluded, removal and
stabilization must take place within seven calendar days of obtaining access.
The applicant is responsible for contacting all local, regional, state and
federal authorities and obtaining any required permits prior to conducting any
work.
         (e)   No development, utility or street construction will be allowed
and no building permits will be issued unless the development is in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   Final stabilization. The permittee(s) must ensure final stabilization
of the site after the completion of construction activities and prior to the
termination of the permit. Final stabilization is not complete until all
requirement in accordance to the definition in division (B) are complete that
are intended to prevent discharge of pollutants associated with stormwater
discharges from the project.
   (J)   Certification.
      (1)   Approved grading, drainage, stormwater management, and erosion
control plan.
         (a)   Plans for grading, stripping, excavating, and filling work
bearing the stamp of approval of the Community Development Department, as
applicable, shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the work.
         (b)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) must:
            1.   Ensure the SWPPP is prepared by an individual trained in the
design of construction SWPPPs in accordance with the MPCA NPDES construction
general permit training requirements (CGP Part III.A.3);
            2.   Ensure at least one individual is present or available to the
project site within 72 hours that is trained in the job duties for construction
site management to inspect, oversee implementation of, revise, and amend the
SWPPP (CGP Part III.F.b);
            3.   Ensure at least one individual is present or available to the
project site within 72 hours that is trained in the job duties for construction
installation to perform or supervise the installation, maintenance and repair
of Best Management Practices (BMPs) (CGP Part III.F.c);
            4.   Document the name(s) of the trained personnel to design the
construction SWPPP, the construction site manager and the construction
installer. Documentation shall include the date of training, name of instructor
(s), name of entity providing the training, content covered and hours of
training attended (CGP Part III.A.3).
      (2)   As-built grading plan and development plan. Within 30 days after
completion of site development as per the approved grading, drainage and
erosion plan, and prior to the approval of individual building permits, the
developer shall provide the city with an as-built grading plan and development
plan as defined in the City of Monticello Plan Requirements and Design
Guidelines.
      (3)   Procedure. The city will withhold issuance of building permits
until the approved certified as-built grading plan and as-built development
plan are on file with the city, all securities as required by this chapter are
received, conservation easement posts are installed, and all erosion control
measures are in place as determined by the Community Development Department.
      (4)   Removal of erosion control measures. The above specified
requirements will be authorized for removal upon the sodding of the rear yards,
completion of punch list items involving ponds and slopes, final stabilization,
completion of proper turf establishment and placement of the proper
conservation easement posts and signs as specified. Inspection is required
after the removal of erosion control measures to verify proper restoration.
Please refer to City of Monticello’s Design Manual for specifications.
      (5)   Notice of termination (NOT). The applicant must ensure final
stabilization of the project. The applicant must submit a NOT within 30 days of
final stabilization being achieved, or another party assuming control on all
areas of the project that have not achieved final stabilization.
   (K)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Notice of violation. If the grading permittee fails to meet or
maintain sediment and erosion control measures per the approved grading,
drainage, stormwater management, and erosion control plan, the city shall issue
a notice of violation. The notice of violation shall detail the default and
prescribe a remedy and required schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Lapse and order for work.
         (a)   If the grading permittee fails to meet or maintain sediment and
erosion control measures per the approved grading, drainage, stormwater
management and erosion control plan, the city may, in its discretion, perform
the work or contract to have the work completed and draw down on the security
to pay any costs.
         (b)   The city will endeavor to notify the developer in advance of any
proposed action, but failure of the city to do so will not affect the
developer's and city's rights or obligations hereunder.
      (3)   Stop work order/revocation of grading permit. In the event that any
person holding a grading permit pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of
the permit or implements site development in such a manner as to materially
adversely affect the health, welfare, environment, or safety of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood or development site so as to be
materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood, the City of Monticello may suspend or revoke
the grading permit through the issuance of a stop work order or the revocation
of the grading or building permit.
      (4)   Violation and penalties.
         (a)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or maintain
any grading, excavation, or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or
in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and each day
during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued, or permitted, shall constitute a separate offense.
         (b)    Upon conviction of any such violation, such person,
partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine as specified by the
city ordinance per the fee schedule for each offense. In addition to any other
penalty authorized by this section, any person, partnership, or corporation
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required
to bear the expense of such restoration.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.070 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to enhance the quality
and longevity of buildings in all zoning districts of the city, and to protect
citizen investments in property value by ensuring complementary building style,
construction, and appearance.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Consistency required. In all districts, all buildings shall be
finished on all sides with consistent architectural quality, materials, and
design.
      (2)   New materials. In recognition of the ever-changing marketplace for
new finishing materials, the Community Development Department may authorize the
use of materials not listed herein if it is determined that such a material is
substantially similar or superior to one or more of the approved building
materials.
   (C)   Residential district requirements.
      (1)   All residence districts. No metal siding shall be permitted wider
than 12 inches or without a one-half inch or more overlap and relief.
      (2)   R-1 and R-2 Districts. A minimum of 15% of the front building
façade of any structure in the R-1 or R-2 Districts, less the square footage
area of windows and garage doors, shall be covered with brick or stone. Any
attached or major detached accessory building that can be seen from the street
shall meet this same standard when consistent with the principal structure.
Structures with front facades covered by at least 70% stucco or real wood may
reduce the brick or stone coverage to 5%. The Planning Commission may approve
optional facade treatments prior to building permit through site plan review
when additional architectural detailing so warrants. Such detailing may include
usable front porches, extraordinary roof pitch or other features.
      (3)   R-A and T-N Districts. A minimum of 20% of the front building
façade of any structure in the R-A or T-N zoning district, less the square
footage area of windows and garage doors, shall be covered with brick or stone.
Any attached or major detached accessory building that can be seen from the
street shall meet this same standard when consistent with the principal
structure. Structures with front facades covered by at least 70% stucco or real
wood may reduce the brick or stone coverage to 10%.
      (4)   R-3 District and other districts with multiple-family housing. The
R-3 and R-4 District and other districts with multiple-family housing shall be
subject to building material standards as follows:
         (a)   All building walls facing a public street shall be covered with
stone, brick, cultured masonry simulating brick or stone, or other enhanced
materials to an extent not less than 20% of the exposed wall silhouette area;
and
         (b)   Multiple-family structures of 13 or more units shall, when using
lap horizontal siding, be constructed of heavy gauge steel or cement-board,
with no use of vinyl or aluminum permitted. Natural wood or species that is
resistant to decay may be permitted.
      (5)   Roofing materials. Roofing materials in residential districts,
including for principal and accessory buildings, shall consist of shingles made
of asphalt, fiberglass, durable rot-resistant wood (such as cedar), stone (such
as slate) or architectural metal (including steel and copper). Heavy gauge
steel or copper may be used for standing-seam roofing. Steel may be used only
when designed to resemble traditional residential architectural roofing
materials.
   (D)   Business district requirements. In all Business Zoning Districts (see
table 3-1), the following building materials standards shall apply.
      (1)   No galvanized or unfinished steel, galvalum, or unfinished aluminum
buildings, except those specifically designed to have a corrosive designed
finish such as“corten” steel, shall be permitted in the districts listed
herein.
      (2)   Buildings in these zoning districts shall maintain a high standard
of architectural and aesthetic compatibility with conforming surrounding
properties to ensure that they will not adversely impact the property values of
the abutting properties and shall have a positive impact on the public health,
safety, and general welfare, insofar as practicable.
      (3)   Exterior building finishes in the districts subject to this section
shall consist of materials compatible in grade and quality to the following:
         (a)   Brick.
         (b)   Natural stone.
         (c)   Decorative rock face or concrete block.
         (d)   Cast-in-place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels.
         (e)   Wood, provided that the surfaces are finished for exterior use
and wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or
cypress.
         (f)   Glass.
         (g)   Exterior insulated finish systems, where said system is
manufactured to replicate the look of one of the approved building materials in
this section.
         (h)   Stucco.
      (4)   Metal exterior finishes shall be permitted only where coordinated
into the overall architectural design of the structure, such as in window and
door frames, mansard roofs or parapets, and other similar features, and in no
case shall constitute more than 15% of the total exterior finish of the
building.
      (5)   Metal roofing. Metal shall be an allowed roofing material in the
“B”, Business Districts, provided such material is designed to resemble
traditional commercial architecture and/or is designed to complement the
architectural design of the building.
      (6)   Building materials and design for the CCD District. All buildings
within the CCD shall meet the materials and design standards of the
Comprehensive Plan as defined by the Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan
Amendment, the requirements of the CCD District, as well as the standards in §
153.070 for Business District requirements. In the case of a conflict between
these standards, the stricter of the standards shall be applied.
   (E)   Industrial requirements.
      (1)   In the Industrial and Business Campus District (IBC), the following
building materials and standards shall apply:
         (a)   Buildings shall maintain a high standard of architectural and
aesthetic compatibility with conforming surrounding properties to ensure that
they will not adversely impact the property values of the abutting properties
and shall have a positive impact on the public health, safety, and general
welfare, insofar as practicable.
         (b)   Exterior building finishes shall not consist of galvanized or
unfinished steel, or unfinished aluminum.
         (c)   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials compatible
in grade and quality to the following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Natural stone;
            3.   Decorative rock face block or burnished block;
            4.   Wood, provided that the surfaces are finished for exterior use
and wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or
cypress;
            5.   Glass;
            6.   Stucco or substantially similar finish product;
            7.   Exterior insulated finish systems, where said system is
manufactured to replicate the look of one of the approved building materials in
this section;
            8.   Cast in place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels.
         (d)   Metal exterior finishes shall be permitted only where
coordinated into the overall architectural design of the structure, such as in
window and door frames, mansard roofs or parapets, and other similar features,
and in no case shall constitute more than 15% of the total exterior finish of
the building.
         (e)   Any exterior wall adjacent to a public street must have a higher
level of aesthetics. This could be accomplished by architectural design
features. increased use of stone and/or brick across 15% of the facade area,
combination of glass and architectural metals, or a wall plane articulation
across 15% of the facade area. Such articulation must extend at least five feet
from the primary building line of the principal building structure.
      (2)   In the Light Industrial District (I-1), the following building
material standards shall apply:
         (a)   Exterior building finishes shall not consist of galvanized or
unfinished steel, or unfinished aluminum.
         (b)   Any exterior wall adjacent to a public street must have a higher
level of aesthetics. This could be accomplished by architectural design
features, increased use of stone and/or brick across 25% of the façade area,
combination of glass and architectural metals, or a wall plane articulation
across 25% of the façade area. Such articulation must extend at least five feet
from the primary building line of the principal building structure.
         (c)   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials compatible
in grade and quality to the following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Natural stone;
            3.   Decorative rock face block or burnished block;
            4.   Glass;
            5.   Stucco or substantially similar finish product;
            6.   Exterior insulated finish systems. where said system is
manufactured to replicate the look of one of the approved building materials in
this section;
            7.   Cast in place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels;
            8.   Textured finishes on metal panels to simulate stucco or other
similar treatments;
            9.   Commercial-grade siding made of cement board. composition
board, or other durable material. not including vinyl.
      (3)   In the Heavy Industrial (I-2) districts, the following building
material standards shall apply:
         (a)   Exterior building finishes shall not consist of galvanized or
unfinished steel, or unfinished aluminum.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b755f03dd5a1183a4dba0ed4718e081d30a8a204/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1958.png]
 
         (b)   Any exterior wall adjacent to a public street must have a higher
level of aesthetics. This could be accomplished by architectural design
features, increased use of stone and/or brick across 15% of the façade area,
combination of glass and architectural metals, or a wall plane articulation
across 15% of the façade area. Such articulation must extend at least five feet
from the primary building line of the principal building structure.
         (c)   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials compatible
in grade and quality to the following:
            1.   Brick;
            2.   Natural stone;
            3.   Decorative rock face block or burnished block;
            4.   Glass;
            5.   Stucco or substantially similar finish product;
            6.   Exterior Insulated Finish systems. where said system is
manufactured to replicate the look of one of the approved building materials in
this section;
            7.   Cast n place concrete or pre-cast concrete panels;
            8.   Textured finishes on metal panels to simulate stucco or other
similar treatments;
            9.   Commercial-grade siding made of cement board, composition
board, or other durable material, not including vinyl.
   (F)   Institutional requirements. All institutional uses shall adhere to the
building materials requirements spelled out for commercial districts in §
153.070(D) above.
(Ord. 791, passed 11-14-2022; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.071 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the installation
and operation of Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS) within the City of
Monticello not otherwise subject to siting and oversight by the State of
Minnesota under the Minnesota Power Plant Siting Act (M.S. Chapter 216E, as it
may be amended from time to time).
   (B)   WECS Requirements.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   Number per lot. No more than one WECS per lot shall be
permitted.
         (b)   Height and setbacks. In all zoning districts, the setback of any
WECS or associated structures shall comply with the minimum yard requirements
for principal structures within the district in which the WECS is to be located
or the distance of 1.1 times the total height, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Tower configuration.
            1.   All wind turbines which are part of a commercial WECS shall be
installed with a tubular, monopole type tower;
            2.   All non-commercial WECS shall be installed with monopole or
lattice tower type;
            3.   No guyed towers shall be permitted.
         (d)   Color and finish.
            1.   All wind turbines and towers that are part of a commercial
WECS shall be white, grey or another non-obtrusive color.
            2.   Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
            3.   Blades may be black in order to facilitate deicing.
         (e)   Lighting.
            1.   Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency of
strobe, shall adhere to but not exceed requirements established by Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) permits and regulations.
            2.   Red strobe lights are preferred for night-time illumination to
reduce impacts on migrating birds; red pulsating incandescent lights should be
avoided.
         (f)   Other signage. All signage on site shall comply with City Code.
The manufacturer’s or owner’s company name and/or logo may be placed upon the
nacelle (compartment containing the electrical generator) of the WECS.
         (g)   Feeder lines. All communications and feeder lines, equal to or
less than 34.5 kV in capacity, installed as part of a WECS shall be buried
where reasonably feasible. Feeder lines installed as part of a WECS shall not
be considered an essential service.
         (h)   Shadow flicker. Shadow flicker may not exceed 30 hours per year
and shall not fall more than ten feet from an existing residential property.
         (i)   Waste disposal. Solid and hazardous wastes, including but not
limited to crates, packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used
oils and lubricants, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
         (j)   Discontinuation and decommissioning.
            1.   A WECS shall be considered a discontinued use after 45 days
without energy production, unless a plan is developed and submitted to the City
of Monticello outlining the steps and schedule for returning the WECS to
service. All WECS and accessory facilities shall be completely removed within
90 days of the discontinuation of use.
            2.   Each commercial WECS shall have a decommissioning plan
outlining the anticipated means and cost of removing WECS at the end of their
serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued use. The cost estimates shall
be made by a competent party; such as a professional engineer, a contractor
capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or experience
with decommissioning. A security or bond in an amount sufficient to cover
complete decommissioning process shall be required as a condition of the
conditional use permit.
         (k)   Orderly development. Upon issuance of a conditional use permit,
all commercial WECS shall notify the appropriate state agencies as may be
required by state statute (e.g. Department of Commerce, Public Utilities
Commission, Environmental Quality Board).
      (2)   Safety design standards.
         (a)   Engineering certification. For all WECS, the manufacture’s
engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that the turbine,
foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
         (b)   Clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least 12
feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
         (c)   Warnings. For all commercial WECS, a sign or signs shall be
posted on the tower, transformer and substation warning of high voltage. Signs
with emergency contact information shall also be posted on the turbine or at
another suitable location as determined by the city.
         (d)   Unauthorized climbing. The WECS shall be guarded against
unauthorized climbing. The first 12 feet of the tower shall be non-climbable by
design or be enclosed by a six-foot-high, non-climbable fence with a secured
access.
      (3)   WECS performance standards.
         (a)   Noise. All WECS shall comply with Minn. Rules 7030 governing
noise and §
153.091(A)(2)(f).
         (b)   Electrical codes and standards. All WECS and accessory equipment
and facilities shall comply with the National Electric Safety Code and other
applicable standards.
         (c)   Federal Aviation Administration. All WECS shall comply with FAA
standards and permits.
         (d)   Minnesota State Building Code. All WECS shall comply with the
International Building Code as adopted by the State of Minnesota Building Code.
         (e)   Interference.
            1.   The applicant shall minimize or mitigate interference with
electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves, or
television signals cause by any WECS.
            2.   The applicant shall notify all communication tower operators
within two miles of the proposed WECS location upon application to the city for
a WECS permit.
            3.   No WECS shall be constructed so as to interfere with any
governmental unit microwave transmissions.
         (f)   Right of entrance. Through acceptance of a conditional use
permit for a WECS, the owner/operator grants permission to the city to enter
the property to remove the WECS pursuant to the terms of the conditional use
permit and to assure compliance with other conditions set forth in the permit.
         (g)   Avoidance and mitigation of damages to infrastructure and
utilities.
            1.   Roads.
               a.   Applicants shall identify all county, city or township
roads to be used for the purpose of transporting commercial WECS, substation
parts, concrete, and/or equipment for construction, operation or maintenance of
the commercial WECS and obtain applicable weight and size permits from the
impacted road authority(ies) prior to construction.
               b.   Applicants shall be responsible for restoring or paying
damages as agreed to by the applicable road authority(ies) sufficient to
restore the road(s) and bridges to preconstruction conditions.
            2.   Drainage system. The applicant shall be responsible for
immediate repair of damage to public drainage systems stemming from
construction, operation or maintenance of the WECS.
            3.   Public and private utilities. The owner of the WECS is
responsible for any damage to any below grade public or private utilities, due
to the installation, operation, decommissioning, or action otherwise resulting
for any WECS.
   (C)   Required permits. No person, firm or corporation shall erect,
construct in place, re-erect, replace or make structural repairs to any tower
without making application for and receiving an approved conditional use or
site plan approval and building permit, when applicable. In all cases, review
by the Community Development Department for all required permits will be
necessary. Site plans and conditional use permits shall be applied for and
reviewed under the applicable procedures established in §§
153.025 through
153.028.
   (D)   WECS permit and site plan application requirements.
      (1)   All applications for a WECS conditional use and/or site plan review
shall provide the following to be considered complete:
         (a)   The names of project applicant;
         (b)   The name of the property owner;
         (c)   The legal description AND address of the project;
         (d)   A description of the project including:
            1.   Number of proposed units;
            2.   Type of units proposed for construction;
            3.   Name plate generating capacity of each unit;
            4.   Rotor diameter(s);
            5.   Tower height(s) determined by the distance from the
surrounding grade to the rotor hub or top of the tower, whichever is higher;
and
            6.   Total height of all wind turbines and means of interconnecting
with the electrical grid.
         (e)   Property survey, including the location of property lines, wind
turbines, electrical wires, interconnection points with the electrical grid,
and all related accessory structures. The survey shall include distances and be
drawn to a measurable scale;
         (f)   Evidence that the applicant can obtain and maintain adequate
liability insurance for the WECS and subject property;
         (g)   Engineer’s Minnesota State certification and project design
specifications;
         (h)   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the
property.
      (2)   Additional submittal requirements for commercial WECS only:
         (a)   The latitude and longitude of individual wind turbines;
         (b)   A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the
property and surrounding area, including any other WECS within ten rotor
diameters of the proposed WECS;
         (c)   Location of wetlands, scenic, and natural areas including bluffs
within 1,320 feet of the proposed WECS;
         (d)   FAA permit application;
         (e)   Location of all known communications towers within two miles of
the proposed WECS;
         (f)   Proof that the WECS will not interfere with emergency or other
microwave transmission;
         (g)   A noise study, prepared by a qualified professional, that
demonstrate that except for intermittent episodes, the WECS shall not emit
noise in excess of the limits established in Minn. Rules 7030 governing noise
and §
153.091(A)(2)(f) of this chapter, as applicable;
         (h)   A shadow flicker model that demonstrates that shadow flicker
shall not fall on, or in, any existing residential structure. Shadow flicker
expected to fall on a roadway or a portion of a residentially zoned property
may be acceptable if the flicker does not exceed 30 hours per year; and the
flicker will fall more than 100 feet from an existing residence; or the traffic
volumes are less than 500 vehicles (ADT). The shadow flicker model shall:
            1.   Map and describe with a 1,000-foot radius of the proposed
dispersed wind energy system the topography, existing residences and location
of their windows, location of other structures, wind speeds and directions,
existing vegetation and roadways. The model shall represent the most probable
scenarios of wind constancy, sunshine constancy, and wind directions and speed;
            2.   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker caused by the
proposed project and the expected durations of the flicker at these locations,
calculate the total number of hours per year of flicker at all locations;
            3.   Identify problem areas where shadow flicker will interfere
with existing or future residences and roadways and describe proposed
mitigation measures, including, but not limited to, a change in siting of the
WECS, a change in the operation of the WECS, or grading or landscaping
mitigation measures.
         (i)   Decommissioning plan; and
         (j)   Description of potential impacts on nearby WECS and wind
resources on adjacent properties.
§ 153.072 TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS AND ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Purpose. The City of Monticello acknowledges the legal right of
telecommunication providers to locate within the city, and the need to
accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses. However, the
city wishes to implement its legal authority to adopt zoning requirements which
are nondiscriminatory, not intended to prohibit telecommunications service, and
not based on health effects of radio frequency emissions. In order to establish
uniform, nondiscriminatory regulations that protect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the city, these regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design,
landscaping, and siting standards;
      (2)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
and weather related occurrences through structural standards and setback
requirements;
      (3)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the number of
towers needed to serve the community;
      (4)   Utilize business, industrial and public land, buildings and
structures for telecommunications whenever possible and/or appropriate;
      (5)   Provide for the appropriate location and development of towers and
antennas to accommodate the communication needs of the residents and businesses
within the City of Monticello.
   (B)   Private amateur radio. Private amateur radio, for the purposes of this
chapter, shall mean equipment, including antennae, antennae support structures,
and other related material, necessary to conduct ham and short wave radio
reception and transmissions, only for use by those persons properly licensed by
the Federal Communications Commission for such reception and transmissions, and
who are in full compliance with all licensing requirements.
      (1)   One antenna and associated antenna support structure shall be a
permitted accessory use in all zoning districts, provided that:
         (a)   The owner/operator has current versions of all required licenses
to operate said equipment.
         (b)   All equipment shall be installed in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications, and pursuant to valid building and electrical
permits, and any other applicable permit requirements.
         (c)   Subject to CUP provisions in §
153.072(B)(1)(d) of this chapter, no antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed the allowable height limits of the applicable zoning district in which
it is located, plus 20 feet.
         (d)   By conditional use permit, the height provisions of §
153.072(B)(1)(c) may be exceeded, up to a maximum height of 70 feet, upon a
showing that the additional height is necessary for proper function of the
equipment due to interference from terrain, vegetation, or adjoining buildings.
Any such additional height shall require a setback from all property lines of
no less than one-half-foot for every one foot above the limits established in §
153.072(B)(1)(c).
         (e)   Except as allowed by §
153.072(B)(1)(f), no freestanding antenna or antenna support structure shall be
located within any required yard other than the rear yard of any parcel.
         (f)   An antenna and its support structure may be located within the
buildable area of a lot if mounted directly to the principal structure.
      (2)   Any private amateur radio antenna or antenna support structure
which is no longer in use, or for which the owner of property no longer has
valid licenses, or which has fallen into disrepair to the extent that it can no
longer serve its intended purpose, or which constitutes a hazard or nuisance,
shall be considered a violation of the zoning ordinance, and shall be removed.
   (C)   Private receiving antennae and antenna support structures. Private
receiving antennae and antenna support structures, for the purposes of this
chapter, shall mean television and other electronic reception antennae for
private use.
      (1)   Private antennae less than three meters in width and related
support structures shall be a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts,
provided that:
         (a)   No antenna or antenna support structure shall exceed the
allowable height limits of the applicable zoning district in which it is
located, plus 20 feet.
         (b)   No freestanding antenna or antenna support structure shall be
located within any required yard other than the rear yard of any parcel.
         (c)   An antenna and its support structure may be located within the
buildable area of a lot if mounted directly to the principal structure.
      (2)   Any private antenna or antenna support structure which is no longer
in use, or which has fallen into disrepair to the extent that it can no longer
serve its intended purpose, or which constitutes a hazard or nuisance, shall be
considered a violation of the zoning ordinance, and shall be removed.
   (D)   Commercial transmission/reception antennae and antenna support
structures. Commercial transmission and reception antennae and antenna support
structures, for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean commercial and
industrial communications equipment accessory to business operations of one
meter in width or greater, but not personal wireless telecommunications service
equipment.
      (1)   Commercial transmission/reception antennae and antenna support
structures shall be allowed as accessory uses only by conditional use permit
following the provisions of §
153.028(D) of the zoning ordinance, and shall comply with the following
additional requirements:
         (a)   Antennae and antenna support structures for commercial
transmission/reception shall not occupy the front yard of any parcel.
         (b)   Antennae and antenna support structures allowed under this
section shall be fully screened from adjoining residentially zoned parcels.
         (c)   Antennae and antenna support structures allowed under this
section shall be fully screened from adjoining public right-of-way.
         (d)   Antennae and antenna support structures allowed under this
section shall be fully screened from adjoining commercially-zoned property,
that is, any parcel with a “B” zoning designation.
         (e)   Antennae and antenna support structures allowed under this
section shall meet all other zoning conditions related to the location of
mechanical equipment, whether ground or roof-top mounted.
   (E)   Wireless telecommunications service antennae and antenna support
structures. Wireless telecommunications service antennae and antenna support
structures, for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean any equipment
necessary to provide or support all types of wireless electronic
communications, including, but not necessarily limited to, wireless “cellular”
telephone, radio, and internet transmission and reception communications
between mobile communications providers and users, including public safety
communications. “Small cell” wireless antennae and antenna support structures,
defined exclusively as those facilities that are 50 feet or less in height and
located within the public right-of-way subject to the city’s right-of-way
ordinance, are generally excepted from these provisions. Such facilities are
subject to the provisions of §
153.072(E)(3).
      (1)   Wireless telecommunications service antennae.
         (a)   Co-location of antennae for personal wireless services shall be
a conditional use in all zoning districts on any existing conforming antenna
support structure.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunications service antennae support structures.
         (a)   Except as otherwise allowed by §
153.072(E)(2)(b) below, support structures for personal wireless service
antennae shall be allowed as an accessory use only by conditional use permit,
subject to the following provisions:
            1.   Antenna support structures for personal wireless services
shall be no greater in height than the maximum height requirements of the
zoning district in which the antenna support structure is located, unless
otherwise allowed within this section.
            2.   Antenna support structures for personal wireless services “A-
O” zoning district, all residential zoning districts and the “B-1” zoning
district shall be required to be attached to, or mounted upon, the principal
building, and shall match said building in color and other design features so
as to minimize visibility.
            3.   Antenna support structures for personal wireless services in
the “B-2”, “B-3” and “B-4” zoning district shall be limited in height to 75
feet as measured from the natural grade at the location of the structure.
            4.   Antenna support structures for personal wireless services in
the “I”, Industrial districts shall be limited in height to 150 feet as
measured from the natural grade at the location of the structure.
            5.   Any antenna support structure shall be designed to accommodate
the co-location of other antenna arrays.
            6.   Any freestanding antenna support structure shall be of
monopole design.
            7.   All freestanding antenna support structures for personal
wireless services shall be painted a galvanized light-grey color.
         (b)   Support structures for personal wireless service antenna may be
allowed as an accessory use by conditional use permit on residentially zoned
lots occupied by public uses, subject to the following provisions:
            1.   The site upon which the antenna support structure is located
is occupied by a principal structure.
            2.   In no case shall an antenna support structure exceed 199 feet
as measured from natural grade at the location of the structure.
            3.   Any antenna support structure shall be designed to accommodate
the colocation of other antenna arrays.
            4.   Any freestanding antenna support structure shall be of
monopole design.
            5.   All freestanding antenna support structures for personal
wireless services shall be finished with a galvanized light-grey color.
            6.   The provisions of §
153.072(F) are satisfied.
      (3)   “Small cell” wireless facilities.
         (a)   “Small cell” wireless service antennae and antenna support
structures shall require a conditional use permit when located in the right-of-
way adjacent to any residentially zoned parcel, PUD (planned unit development)
zoned project which includes residential dwellings, or other residential use,
or any historic district. The CUP shall be reviewed pursuant to the provisions
of §
153.028(A) of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance, and any other relevant
restrictions. No conditional use permit shall be granted for any such facility
that creates a substantial burden on the adjoining residential area or the
public right-of- way in which it is located.
         (b)   No “small cell” support structure shall exceed 50 feet in height
above the finished grade of the ground on which the structure is located.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (b) above, the city may approve “small
cell” facilities taller than 50 feet by conditional use permit in rights-of-way
adjacent to non-residential property when the city finds that such approval
will have specific and substantial public benefits, including, but not limited
to, reduction in the overall number or visual impacts of such facilities in the
public right-of-way.
         (d)   Small cell facilities proposed to be co-located on existing
support structures on private property, such as parking lot light poles, may be
allowed as permitted uses provided no portion of the existing support structure
or proposed antenna will exceed the allowable height for such structures in the
subject zoning district and that the property is not a residentially zoned
parcel, PUD (planned unit development) zoned project which includes residential
dwellings, or other residential use, or any historic district.
         (e)   Any small cell wireless service antennae or new antenna support
structures located outside of the public right-of-way, such as on private
property, regardless of ownership, and which would exceed the allowable height
for the support structure in the subject zoning district shall require a
conditional use permit and be subject to all other general requirements of §
153.072, including this section, as well as any other applicable zoning or city
code restrictions.
   (F)   General provisions for wireless telecommunications service antennae
and antenna support structures.
      (1)   No new freestanding antenna support structure shall be located
within one mile of any existing freestanding antenna support structure.
      (2)   No new freestanding antenna support structure shall be approved
when there exists a co-location opportunity within one-half mile of the
proposed structure location.
      (3)   Prerequisite. A proposal for a new telecommunications tower shall
not be approved unless it can be documented by the applicant to the
satisfaction of the city that the telecommunications equipment planned for the
proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or
structure within a one mile radius of the proposed tower—transcending all
municipal boundaries—due to one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of an
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a licensed
professional engineer, and any existing or approved tower or structure cannot
be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at the tower or structure.
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and structures within a one mile
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary for
reasonable function.
         (d)   The applicant has demonstrated that location of the antennas, as
proposed is necessary to provide adequate coverage and capacity to areas which
cannot be adequately served by locating the antennas in a less restrictive
district or an existing structure. Information provided as part of the capacity
analysis, that is a trade secret, pursuant to M.S. §
13.37, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be classified as non-
public data.
         (e)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or building.
      (4)   Siting provisions.
         (a)   Antennae shall be located on existing buildings and structures
whenever possible.
         (b)   No part of any antenna or antenna support structure, nor any
appurtenances to such structure or antenna, shall extend over any public right-
of-way or property line, nor be located within an public utility or drainage
easement.
         (c)   Antenna support structures shall be designed to replicate
materials and colors of similar structures in the area, such as lighting or
utility poles.
      (5)   Setbacks.
         (a)   In all zoning districts, the antenna support structure and any
appurtenant structures shall comply with the minimum setback requirements of
the district in which the proposed structure is to be located, or the distance
determined as the fall zone of the structure by a licensed professional
engineer, whichever is greater.
         (b)   In all zoning districts, no freestanding antenna support
structure shall be located within 250 feet of an existing residence, or the
proposed home location on an approved preliminary plat.
         (c)   All antenna support structures shall be located in the rear yard
of parcel whenever practical.
      (6)   Design and construction.
         (a)   No advertising or identification of any kind intended to be
visible from the ground or other structures is permitted, except applicable
warning and equipment information signage required by the manufacturer or by
federal, state, or local authorities.
         (b)   All antennae, antenna support structures, and accessory
structures shall be in compliance with all city and State Building Codes, as
applicable, and shall obtain all necessary permits.
         (c)   Structure design, mounting and installation of the antenna and
antenna support structure shall be in compliance with the manufacture’s
specifications, and installation plans shall be approved and certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
         (d)   Antenna support structures and antennae shall be grounded for
protection against a direct strike by lightning and shall comply, as to
electrical wiring and connections, with all applicable provisions of all state
codes.
         (e)   All transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within a structure or cabinet whenever possible, and shall adhere to the
following:
            1.   If a new tower accessory building is necessary to house such
equipment, it shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the
surrounding environment, and shall be screened from view by landscaping as
deemed necessary by the City Council.
            2.   Accessory equipment associated with a rooftop antenna,
satellite dishes, or wall antenna shall be located within the building,
cabinet, or within a roof or ground enclosure which is constructed of materials
and color scheme compatible with the principal building.
            3.   All transmitting, receiving and switching equipment shall be
housed within a structure or cabinet. Such structure shall be architecturally
designed to blend in with the surrounding environment, and shall be screened
from view by landscaping consistent with the screening and landscaping
requirements of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance.
            4.   Antenna support structures located within 1,000 feet of the
FiberNet Monticello Co-Location Building shall be required to locate all
transmitting, receiving and switching equipment within the FiberNet Monticello
Co-Location.
      (7)   Lights and attachments.
         (a)   No antenna or antenna support structure shall have lights,
reflectors or other illuminating devices of any kind, unless required by a
federal or state regulatory authority.
         (b)   Lights attached to antenna support structures may be approved by
the City Council as a part of a conditional use permit when such lights are
used to illuminate a parking lot or other use on the ground, provided such
lights meet the exterior lighting requirements of the Monticello Zoning
Ordinance.
      (8)   Site landscaping.
         (a)   The site on which an antenna or antenna support structure is
located shall be landscaped to control dust, weeds, drainage, and to improve
aesthetics of the property.
      (9)   Non-interference.
         (a)   No antenna installation shall transmit signals in a way that
causes interference with any other electronic device.
   (G)   Application process and submittal requirements for wireless
telecommunications service antenna support structures.
      (1)   Submittal requirements. All applications for a conditional use
permit for any antenna or antenna support structure shall be accompanied by the
following materials:
         (a)   Documentation, in the form of a signed lease or other adequate
proof of property interest, demonstrating that the applicant has authority to
seek the requested permit from the owner or owners of the parcel in question.
         (b)   A statement describing the proposed project, together with
written justification supporting the proposed installation.
         (c)   Proof of insurance against injury or property damage caused by
structural failure of any element of the installation.
         (d)   The legal description of the property on which the improvements
are to be located.
         (e)   A certified survey of the property showing all existing
conditions, along with the proposed improvements.
         (f)   A coverage study prepared by a radio frequency engineer showing
alternative antenna support structure locations, co-location options, and
whether such alternatives can accommodate the proposed antenna with reasonable
coverage, including any known approved but unconstructed locations. Such plan
shall include all existing towers, buildings, and other possible support
structures.
         (g)   A landscaping and screening plan.
         (h)   A grading and drainage plan.
         (i)   Architectural drawings of all appurtenant structures planned for
the site.
         (j)   A decommissioning plan outlining the means, process, and
anticipated costs of removing all improvements at the end of their service
life, or upon discontinued use.
         (k)   A security acceptable to the city adequate to ensure safe
removal of all improvements upon decommissioning.
         (l)   A development agreement specifying the terms of the conditional
use permit, including improvements, decommissioning, financial security, and
other elements.
         (m)   Other information specified by the Community Development
Director and/or City Council necessary to support the application and permit
adequate municipal review of the request.
   (H)   Outside review. At the request of the Community Development Director,
the city may seek and obtain the advice of outside experts to review technical
materials submitted by the applicants, including the advice of structural
experts, radio frequency engineers, or for any other related area of analysis.
The applicant shall submit an escrow to cover the costs of such expertise.
   (I)   Removal of abandoned or unused antennae, antenna support structures,
or other appurtenant elements. Any tower and/or antenna which is not used for
six successive months shall be deemed abandoned and may be required to be
removed from the property. All abandoned or unused towers and associated
facilities shall be removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at
the site unless a time extension is approved by the City Council. After the
facilities are removed, the site shall be restored to its original or an
improved state. If a tower is not removed within 12 months after the cessation
of operations at a site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by
the city and the costs of removal assessed against the property. The owner of
the tower and the owner of the property are both responsible for removal of the
tower as required by this section.
USE STANDARDS
§ 153.090 USE TABLE.
   (A)   Explanation of use table structure.
      (1)   Organization of Table 5-1. Table 5-1 organizes all principal uses
by use classifications and use types.
         (a)   Use classifications. The use classifications are: agricultural
uses; residential uses; civic and institutional uses; commercial uses; and
industrial uses. The use classifications provide a systematic basis for
assigning present and future land uses into broad general classifications
(e.g., residential and commercial uses). The use classifications then organize
land uses and activities into specific “use types” based on common functional,
product, or physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity,
the type of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered
and site conditions.
         (b)   Use types. The specific use types identify the specific uses
that are considered to fall within characteristics identified in the use
classifications. For example; detached dwellings, parks and recreational areas,
and schools are “use types” in the Single-family Residence District.
      (2)   Symbols used in Table 5-1.
         (a)   Permitted Uses = P. A “P” indicates that a use is permitted by
right, subject to compliance with all other applicable provisions of this
chapter. Uses may be subject to special regulations as referenced in the
“additional requirements” column.
         (b)   Conditionally Permitted Uses = C. A “C” indicates that a use is
permitted provided the city can establish conditions necessary to ensure the
use is compatible to the proposed location and surrounding properties.
Inability of the city to establish conditions to adequately control anticipated
impacts is justification for denial of a conditionally permitted use.
Conditional uses may also be subject to special regulations as referenced in
the “additional requirements” column.
         (c)   Interim Permitted Uses = I. An “I” indicates that a use may be
permitted for a brief period of time provided certain conditions are met, and a
specific event or date can be established for discontinuance of the use.
Inability of the city to establish conditions to adequately control anticipated
impacts is justification for denial of an interim permitted use. Interim
permitted uses may also be subject to special regulations as referenced in the
“additional requirements” column.
         (d)   Prohibited Uses = Shaded cells. A shaded cell indicates that the
listed use is prohibited in the respective base zoning district.
         (e)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. In any zoning
district, whenever a proposed use is neither specifically allowed nor denied,
the use will be considered prohibited in which case an amendment to the
ordinance text would be required to clarify if, where and how a proposed use
could be established.
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                 Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                     Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                                Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                                    Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD     PCD       IBC I1      I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
Agricultural Uses
                                                                                                       §
Agriculture                       P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P                    P   P       P  153.091 (B)
                                                                                                       (1)
                                                                                                       §
Agricultural Sales                P                                                                    153.091 (B)
                                                                                                       (2)
                                                                                                       §
Community Gardens                 P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P                                            153.091 (B)
                                                                                                       (3)
                                                                                                       §
Stables                           C                                                                    153.091 (B)
                                                                                                       (4)
                                                                                            §
Residential Uses                                                                            153.091
                                                                                            (C)(1)
                                                                                            §
Attached Dwelling Types                                                                    153.091
                                                                                          (C)(2)
                                                                                          (a)
                                                                                                     §
   Duplex                               P     C                    See     See                      153.091 (C)
                                                                      Table   Ordinance                (2)(b)
                                                                      5- 1A  No.                     §
   Townhouse                            C     P                                                     153.091 (C)
                                                                                                       (2)(c)
                                                                                                       §
   Multiple- family                     C     P  C    C                                            153.091 (C)
                                                                                                       (2)(d)
Detached Dwelling                 P  P  P  P  P           P                                            None
Group residential facility,                                                                            §
single-family                     P  P  P  P  P                                                        153.091 (C)
                                                                                                       (3)
Group residential facility,                                                                            §
multi- family                              C     C  C                                                  153.091 (C)
                                                                                                       (3)
                                                                                                       §
Mobile and manufactured home park          C     C  C  P  C                                            153.091 (C)
                                                                                                       (4)
Civic and Institutional Uses
Active park facilities (public)   P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P                    P   P       P  None
 
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                 Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                     Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                         Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                             Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD   PCD       IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
Civic and Institutional Uses
                                                                                                §
Active park facilities (private)  P  P  P  P  P  P  P                                           153.091(D)
                                                                                                (1)
                                                                                                §
Assisted living facilities                 C     P  C     C  P                                  153.091(D)
                                                                                                (2)
                                                                                                §
Cemeteries                        C  C  C  C  C  C  C                                           153.091(D)
                                                                                                (3)
Clinics/medical services                                  C  P     P                  C         None
Essential services                P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P                  P   P  P  None
                                                                                                §
Hospitals                                                 C  P     P                  C         153.091(D)
                                                                                                (4)
                                                                                              §
Nursing/ convalescent home        C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C     P                          153.091(D)
                                                                                              (5)
Passenger terminal                                           C  C  C  See   See       C         None
Passive parks and open space      P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  P  Table Ordinance P   P  P   
                                                                      5-1A  No.                 §
Place of public assembly                C  C  C  C  C      P  C                              153.091(D)
                                                                                                (6)
                                                                                                §
Public buildings or uses          C  C  C  C  C  C  C  P  C  C  P  P                  C   P  P  153.091(D)
                                                                                                (7)
                                                                                                §
Public warehousing temporary                                    I                         I  I  153.091(D)
                                                                                                (8)
                                                                                                §
Schools, K-12                           C  C  C  C  C                                 C   I  I  153.091(D)
                                                                                                (9)
Schools, higher education                                                             C          
                                                                                                §
Utilities (major)                                            C                            C  C  153.091(D)
                                                                                                (10)
 
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                 Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                     Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                         Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                             Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD   PCD       IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
Commercial Uses
Adult uses                                                                                P  P  §
                                                                                                153.046(T)
                                                                                                §
Auction house                                                                                C  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (2)
                                                                                                §
Auto repair - minor                                             C  C                      P  P  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (3)
                                                                                                §
Automotive wash facilities                                      P  C                            153.091(E)
                                                                                                (4)
                                                                                                §
Bed and breakfasts                C  C  C  C  C                                                 153.091(E)
                                                                                                (5)
                                                                                                §
Brew pub                                                        P  P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                                (6)
Business support services                                       P  P                  P   P  P  None
                                                                                              §
Commercial lodging                                              P  P                P         153.091(E)
                                                                      See   See                 (7)
                                                                      Table Ordinance           §
Commercial self-storage                                         C    5-1A  No.           C     153.091(F)
                                                                                                (3)
                                                                                                §
Communications/broadcasting                                       P                  P   P  P  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (8)
                                                                                                §
Convenience retail                                        C  P  P  P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                                (9)
                                                                                                §
Country club                      C                                                             153.091(E)
                                                                                                (10)
                                                                                                §
Day care centers                                          C  C  C  P                  P   C    153.091(E)
                                                                                                (11)
Entertainment/ recreation, indoor                                                               §
commercial                                                      P  P                  C   C  C  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (12)
Entertainment/ recreation,                                                                      §
outdoor commercial                C                             C  C                         C  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (13)
 
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                 Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                     Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                         Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                             Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD   PCD       IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
Commercial Uses
Animal kennel/boarding                                                                          §
(commercial)                      C                             C  C                         C  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (17)
                                                                                                §
Event center                                                 C  C  C                            153.091
                                                                                                (E)14)
                                                                                                §
Financial institution                                        P  P  P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                                (15)
                                                                                                §
Funeral services                                             P    P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                                (16)
                                                                                                §
Landscaping/ nursery business     P                                                             153.091(E)
                                                                                                (18)
Offices, commercial and                                                                         §
professional services                                     P  P  P  P                  P   P  P  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (20)
                                                                                              §
Personal services                                         C  P  P  P                          153.091(E)
                                                                      See   See                 (22)
Production brewery or micro-                                          Table Ordinance           §
distillery without taproom                                            5-1A  No.           P  P  153.091(F)
                                                                                                (12)
                                                                                                §
Production brewery or micro-                                                                    153.091(E)
distillery with taproom or                                      C  C                  C   C  C  (23)
cocktail room                                                                                   §
                                                                                                153.091(F)
                                                                                                (13)
                                                                                                §
Recreational vehicle camp site    C                                                             153.091(E)
                                                                                                (24)
                                                                                                §
Repair establishment                                      C  P     P                      P  P  153.091(E)
                                                                                                (25)
                                                                                                §
Restaurants                                                  C  P  P                  C         153.091(E)
                                                                                                (26)
 
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                    Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO R R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted          A
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                        Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                            Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO R R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD   PCD       IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted          A
Commercial Uses
Retail commercial uses (other)                                                                 §
buildings less than 10,000 sq.                              P  P  P                            153.091(E)
ft.                                                                                            (27)
Retail commercial uses (other)                                                                 §
buildings over 10,000 sq. ft.                               C  P  P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                               (27)
Retail service                                              P  P  P                            §
                                                                                               153.048
                                                                                               §
Specialty eating establishments                          C  P  P  P                            153.091(E)
                                                                                               (28)
                                                                                               §
Vehicle fuel sales                                          C  C  C                            153.091(E)
                                                                                             (29)
                                                                                             §
Vehicle sales and rental                                       C     See   See                 153.091(E)
                                                                     Table Ordinance           (30)
                                                                     5-1A  No.                 §
Veterinary facilities (rural)     C                                                            153.091(E)
                                                                                               (31)
Veterinary facilities                                                                          §
(neighborhood)                                              C  C  C                            153.091(E)
                                                                                               (31)
Wholesale sales                                                                      P   P  P  None
Industrial Uses
                                                                                               §
Auto repair - major                                            C                        P  P  153.091(F)
                                                                                               (1)
                                                                                               §
Bulk fuel sales and storage                                                               C  153.091(F)
                                                                                               (2)
 
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                 Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                     Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
TABLE 5-1: USES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts                                          Additional
“P” = Permitted                                                                              Requirements
“C” = Conditionally Permitted AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 MH B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD    PCD       IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim Permitted
Industrial Uses
                                                                                                 §
Contractor's yard, temporary                                                           I   I  I  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (4)
                                                                                                 §
Extractive use                    I                             I  I                       I  I  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (5)
                                                                                                 §
General warehousing                                                                    C   P  P  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (6)
                                                                                                 §
Heavy manufacturing                                                                           C  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (7)
Industrial services                                                                        C  P  None
Industrial self- storage                                                                         §
facilities                                                                                 C  C  153.091(F)
                                                                                               (8)
                                                                                               §
Land reclamation                  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C  C                 C   C  C  153.091(F)
                                                                      See    See                 (9)
                                                                      Table  Ordinance           §
Light manufacturing                                                   5-1A  No.      P   P  P  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (10)
                                                                                                 §
Machinery/truck repair and sales                                                              C  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (11)
                                                                                                 §
Recycling and salvage center                                                                  C  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (14)
                                                                                                 §
Truck or freight terminal                                                                     C  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (15)
                                                                                                 §
Waste disposal and incineration                                                               C  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (16)
                                                                                                 §
Wrecker and towing services                                     C                             P  153.091(F)
                                                                                                 (17)
 
TABLE 5-1A: CENTRAL COMMUNITY DISTRICT (CCD) USES SUB-AREA
          Riverfront    Broadway (B)   Walnut &   Pine (D)    General CCD Notes
          (A)                          Cedar (C)
          Entertainment                Retail,    Office,     Housing,
          and open      Retail,        supported  large space supported
Use Types space,        supported by   by housing retail      by limited
          supported by  entertainment; and        users, and  retail and
          retail        housing 2nd    services   retail      services
                                                  service
TABLE 5-1A: CENTRAL COMMUNITY DISTRICT (CCD) USES SUB-AREA
               Riverfront    Broadway (B)   Walnut &  Pine    General   Notes
               (A)                          Cedar (C) (D)     CCD
                                                      Office, Housing,
               Entertainment                Retail,   large   supported
               and open      Retail,        supported space   by
Use Types      space,        supported by   by        retail  limited
               supported by  entertainment; housing   users,  retail
               retail        housing 2nd    and       and     and
                                            services  retail  services
                                                      service
Additional use requirements applicable per §
153.091
Uses:
Residential Uses
Single- family               P*                               CUP       *Upper floors
                                                                        only
Multi 3 du or                P*             CUP*              P         *Upper floors
under                                                                   only
                                                                        *Townhous es
Townhouse      CUP           CUP*           CUP               P         on Broadway
                                                                        east of Pine
                                                                        only
Multi 4-12 du  CUP           CUP            CUP               CUP
Multi 13+ du   CUP           CUP            CUP       CUP     CUP
                                                                        *Allowed on
                                                                        ground floor
Ground floor                 CUP*           P                 P         for townhouses
                                                                        on Broadway
                                                                        east of Pine
Commercial
Brew Pub
<10,000 sq.    P             P              P         P
ft.
Brew Pub
>10,000 sq.    CUP           P              CUP       P
ft.
Commercial Day                              CUP       CUP     P
Care
Commercial     P             CUP            CUP       P
Lodging
Entertainment/
Recreation,
Indoor         CUP*          CUP*           CUP*      CUP               <10,000 sq.
Commercial                                                              ft. only
(including
theaters)
Entertainme
nt/Recreation
Outdoor
Commercial
                                                                        Subject to §
Event centers  CUP           CUP            CUP       CUP     CUP       153.091(F)(14
                                                                        )
Funeral                                                       CUP
services
Personal       P             P              P         P       CUP
services
Places of
public         CUP           CUP            CUP       CUP     CUP
assembly
Production
brewery/       P             P              P         P
taproom
Micro-
distillery/    P             P              P         P
cocktail room
Professional
office -       CUP*          P              P         P       P         Upper floors
services and                                                            preferred
retail
                             CUP* - not     P/CUP* on P/CUP*
Commercial                   allowed on     ground    on      P         Upper floors
office                       ground floor   floor     ground            preferred
                                                      floor
Financial                    P              P         P       P         Drive thru by
                                                                        CUP
Restaurants,
bars <10,000   P             P              P         P       CUP
sq. ft.
Restaurants,
bars > 10,000  CUP           P              CUP       P       CUP
sq. ft.
Retail Sales
<10,000 sq.    P             P              P         P       P
ft.
Retail Sales
>10,000 sq.    CUP           CUP            CUP       P       CUP
ft.
Retail with    CUP           P              P         P       P
service
Specialty
Eating
Establishments P             P              P         P       CUP
<10,000 sq.
ft.
Vehicle fuel                                          CUP
sales
Veterinary                                                              No outdoor
facilities <                 CUP            CUP       CUP     CUP       uses
10,000 sq. ft.
Industrial Uses
Industrial PUD                              PUD Only          PUD Only
Civic and Institutional Uses
Clinics/
medical                      CUP            CUP       P       P
services
Public
buildings or   P             CUP            P         CUP     CUP
uses (incl.
public parks)
Schools Pre-                 CUP            CUP       CUP
K-12
 
 
TABLE 5-1B THE POINTES AT CEDAR DISTRICT (PCD)
See §
153.048
 
TABLE 5-1C: CANNABIS BUSINESS USES
Use Types             Base Zoning Districts                              Additional
"N" = Not Allowed                                                        Requirements
“P” = Permitted
“C” = Conditional AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4 B1 B2 B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim
"A" = Administrativ e
TABLE 5-1C: CANNABIS BUSINESS USES
Use Types             Base Zoning Districts                                  Additional
"N" = Not Allowed                                                            Requirements
“P” = Permitted
“C” = Conditional AO RA R1 R2 TN R3 R4    B1 B2 B3 B4  CCD PCD IBC I1 I2
“I” = Interim
"A" = Administrativ e
Commercial Uses
                                                                             §
Cannabis retailer     N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  P  P   N   N   N   N  N  153.091(E)(3
                                                                             3)
A O                   RA R  R  T  R  R  B 1   B  B3 B4 CCD PCD IBC I 1 I
                         1  2  N  3  4        2                        2
Commercial Uses   
                                                                             §
                                                                             153.091(E)(3
Cannabis                                                                     3)
microbusiness -       N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  P/ P/  N   N   N   N  N  *CUP
retail location only                                C* C*                    required for
                                                                             on-site
                                                                             consumption
                                                                             CUP
Cannabis                                                                     §
mezzobusiness -       N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  P  P   N   N   N   N  N  153.091(E)(3
retail location only                                                         3)
Medical cannabis                                                             §
retailer              N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  P  P   N   N   N   N  N  153.091(E)(3
                                                                             3)
Medical cannabis                                                             §
combination business  N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  P  P   N   N   N   N  N  153.091(E)(3
- retail location                                                            3)
only
Lower-potency hemp                                                           §
edible retailer       N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N P  P  P   N   N   N   N  N  153.091(E)(3
                                                                             3)
                                                                             §
                                                                             153.093(E)(1
Temporary cannabis    N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  A  A   N   N   N   N  N  2)
event                                                                        §§
                                                                             96.21 -
                                                                             96.25
Industrial Uses
                                                                             §
Cannabis cultivator   N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
                                                                             §
Cannabis manufacturer N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
Cannabis                                                                     §
microbusiness         N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
Cannabis                                                                     §
mezzobusiness         N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
                                                                             §
Cannabis wholesaler   N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
                                                                             §
Cannabis transporter  N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
Cannabis testing                                                             §
facility              N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
                                                                             §
                                                                             153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
                                                                             *Accessory
Cannabis delivery                                                            only to
service               N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  C* C*  N   N   N   C  P  licensed
                                                                             cannabis or
                                                                             lower-
                                                                             potency hemp
                                                                             retail in B-
                                                                             3 or B-4
Medical cannabis                                                             §
processor             N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
Medical cannabis                                                             §
combination business  N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
Lower-potenc y hemp                                                          §
edible manufacturer   N  N  N  N  N  N  N   N N  N  N   N   N   N   C  P  153.091(F)(1
                                                                             9)
 
(Ord. 762, passed 8-23-2021; Ord. 780, passed 7-25-2022; Ord. 791, passed 11-
14-2022; Ord. 797, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 804,
passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 830, passed 7-22-2024; Ord. 835, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.091 USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   General regulations applicable to all uses.
      (1)   Combination uses. In commercial and industrial base zoning
districts, combination uses may be allowed within the principal building with
each use subject to all regulations in this chapter.
      (2)   Nuisances prohibited. In addition to any nuisance provisions within
city code, the following shall apply:
         (a)   Refuse and garbage.
            1.   In all districts, all refuse, rubbish, or garbage shall be
kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such a purpose.
            2.   The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping the
land free of refuse, rubbish, or garbage.
         (b)   Glare.
            1.   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking area, sign,
or other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any
adjoining residential zone or from the public streets.
            2.   Direct or sky-reflected glare, where from floodlights or from
high temperature processes such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed
into any adjoining property.
            3.   The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in some
manner so as not to cast light on adjacent property.
            4.   Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted in view
of adjacent property or public right-of-way.
            5.   Any light or combination of lights which cast light on a
public street shall not exceed one foot candle (meter reading) as measured from
the center line of said street.
            6.   Any light or combination of lights which cast light on
residential property shall not exceed 0.4 foot candles (meter reading) as
measured from said property.
         (c)   Smoke. The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance
with and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 1-15.
         (d)   Dust and other particulated matter. The emission of dust, fly
ash, or other particulated matter by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
Regulation APC 1-15.
         (e)   Noise. Noises emanating from any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the State of Minnesota pollution control standards and rules.
In no case shall noise emanations constitute a nuisance as defined and
regulated by this code.
      (3)   Building and structure location. All buildings and structures shall
be so placed so that they will not obstruct future streets which may be
constructed by the city in conformity with existing streets and according to
the system and standards employed by the city.
      (4)   Cannabis-related businesses.
         (a)   Findings and purpose.
            1.   The City of Monticello (hereinafter "city") makes the
following legislative findings: The purpose of this division is to implement
the provisions of M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from time to time, which authorizes
the city to protect the public health, safety, welfare of city residents by
regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of city.
            2.   The city finds and concludes that the proposed provisions are
appropriate and lawful land use regulations for city, that the proposed
amendments will promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions are in the
public interest and for the public good.
         (b)   Authority and jurisdiction. The city has the authority to adopt
this division pursuant to:
            1.   M.S. § 342.13(c), as amended from time to time, regarding the
authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the
time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided that
such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis
businesses.
            2.   M.S. § 342.22, as amended from time to time, regarding the
local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses, subject to
any Joint Powers Agreement with Wright County which explicitly supersedes these
regulations.
            3.   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
            4.   M.S. § 462.357, as amended from time to time, regarding the
authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
         (c)   Any cannabis-related business or lower-potency hemp edible
business licensed by the State of Minnesota under M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from
time to time, shall be subject to the following requirements, in addition to
any specific standards in this section, and other reasonable regulations
required as a condition of any zoning permit issued for such uses.
            1.   No cannabis-related business use shall operate outside of the
hours of operation established by M.S. Ch. 342, as amended from time to time,
or those established by the city, whichever is more restrictive.
            2.   No cannabis-related business use shall operate or occur on
property used for residential purpose.
            3.   No cannabis-related business use shall create odors that are
detectable beyond the property lines of such use.
            4.   The facility shall display its state-issued license on the
interior of the facility, visible to the public, at all times.
            5.   No person or facility shall dispose of cannabis or cannabis-
containing products in an unsecured waste receptacle not in possession and
control of the licensee and designed to prohibit unauthorized access.
            6.   All cultivation, processing, storage, display, sales or other
distribution of cannabis shall occur within an enclosed building and shall not
be visible from the exterior of the building.
            7.   Outdoor storage is prohibited for all cannabis-related uses.
            8.   Cannabis-related business uses shall comply with the city's
sign regulations.
            9.   Cannabis-related business uses shall comply with all other
applicable standards of the Monticello Zoning Ordinance and city code.
            10.   Buffers. No cannabis-related business use shall be located
closer to any property occupied by any of the following uses, measured as a
horizontal distance from the closest point of the property on which the
cannabis business is located to the closest point of the property occupied by:
               a.   School: 1,000 feet.
               b.   Daycare: 500 feet from any day care facility that is
located in a zoning district where cannabis businesses are not allowed. This
buffer shall not apply to day care facilities that are located in a zoning
district in which a cannabis business is allowed.
               c.   Residential treatment facility: 500 feet.
               d.   Public park: 500 feet from attractions within a public park
regularly used by minors. Public parks included shall be as identified in the
city's most currently adopted park system or master plan. This buffer shall not
apply to sidewalks or trails, or other public lands.
   (B)   Regulations for agricultural uses.
      (1)   Agriculture.
         (a)   Agricultural related buildings and structures including farm
dwellings shall be subject to Minnesota Pollution Control Standards.
         (b)   Agricultural uses shall not include commercial feed lots or
other commercial operations.
         (c)   The keeping and/or raising of livestock raising shall be
prohibited in all zoning districts except for the A-O District.
      (2)   Agricultural sales. All agricultural sales businesses shall adhere
to the following:
         (a)   Activities shall be limited to those listed within the
definition for an agricultural sales business.
         (b)   The agricultural sales business shall be located on land owned
or leased by the producer or the operator of the business, and not within or on
any public rights-of-way or easements.
         (c)   The operator must be able to demonstrate at all times to the
city that there is sufficient access, parking and maneuvering space, that the
location and adequacy of approaches are sufficient, that there is suitable and
safe access for pedestrians, and that customer parking is away from the travel
way and in close proximity to the agricultural sales business.
         (d)   All waste materials shall be enclosed in containers provided on
the site, and shall not generate any nuisance impacts on adjacent properties.
         (e)   All sidewalks, roadways, and parking areas shall be treated as
necessary to eliminate dust nuisance impacts on adjacent properties.
      (3)   Community garden.
         (a)   Prior to a parcel being utilized as a community garden, the
landowner shall be required to secure an annual community garden permit from
the Community Development Department.
         (b)   Each community garden must have two or more gardeners as a
prerequisite for obtaining a permit to ensure code and permit guidelines are
followed.
         (c)   Unused plots and common areas shall be maintained and kept free
of weeds, dead plant materials, and other debris/garbage.
         (d)   Containers, including water bins, and planters, shall not hold
standing water unless they are completely covered.
         (e)   Composting of vegetative matter is allowed (leaves, plants, wood
chips, etc.); composting of meat, human or pet waste is prohibited.
         (f)   Overhead lighting is prohibited.
         (g)   Signage is limited to a single, non-illuminated, single sided
sign of four square feet.
      (4)   Stables.
         (a)   Animal building, holding, grazing, and exercise areas are
located a minimum of 1,000 feet from any residential, commercial, or industrial
use district.
         (b)   The land area of the property containing such use of activity
meets the minimum established for the district.
         (c)   All applicable requirements of the State Pollution Control
Agency are complied with.
   (C)   Regulations for residential uses.
      (1)   General regulations for all dwellings. All dwellings located in any
residence district shall conform to the following minimum requirements in
addition to the specific requirements applicable to the individual residence
districts:
         (a)   Except for in the M-H zoning district, all dwellings shall be
placed on a permanent foundation which complies with the Minnesota State
Building Code, and which are solid for the complete circumference of the
dwelling.
         (b)   All dwellings shall have a minimum width and depth of 20 feet,
exclusive of porches, entryways, or attached storage sheds.
         (c)   All dwellings shall be served by public sanitary sewer and
water.
         (d)   Direct vehicular access to residential units from arterial or
collector roadways shall be prohibited unless no other reasonable alternative
exists as determined by the Community Development Department.
         (e)   In addition to standards applicable to all houses in residential
districts, manufactured homes, as defined by Minnesota Statutes, shall be built
in compliance with the Minnesota Manufactured Homes Building Code and all
statutory requirements (see M.S. §§ 327.31 through 327.35, as they may be
amended from time, on manufactured homes).
         (f)   No cellar, basement, garage, tent, trailer, motor vehicle or
accessory building shall at any time be used as an independent residence or
dwelling unit, either temporarily or permanently. Tents, play houses or similar
structures may be used for play or recreational purposes.
         (g)   Except for dwellings classified as elderly (senior citizen)
housing, the minimum floor area per dwelling unit shall be as prescribed in
individual zoning district regulations.
         (h)   Apartment and condominium dwelling units shall only be located
in multiple-family buildings or in buildings within the CCD district as
regulated by this chapter.
      (2)   Attached dwelling.
         (a)   Regulations applicable to all attached dwelling types.
            1.   Size of development. All attached dwelling developments that
contain more than two structures with dwelling units and/or having a structure
containing more than ten dwelling units shall require a conditional use permit.
            2.   Usable open space. Except for mixed use projects in the CCD
District, each multiple-family dwelling site or townhouse site shall contain at
least 500 square feet of usable open space for each dwelling unit contained
thereon, or a minimum of 30% green space, whichever is greater. For the
purposes of this chapter, green space shall include lawn, shrubs, trees, or
other planted open space usable for gardens, shade, or recreation and shall not
include planted areas between parking areas or sidewalks and parking areas
which are less then ten feet in width, nor shall it include any part of the
public right-of-way, delineated wetland(s), or required stormwater ponding
areas below the ten-year flood elevation.
         (b)   Duplex and two-family dwellings.
            1.   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces per unit shall be
provided within an enclosed garage of at least 400 square feet.
            2.   All driveways and required off-street parking spaces shall be
surfaced with concrete, bituminous or approved equivalent.
            3.   Legal nonconforming single-family dwellings located within R-
3 Zoning Districts may be converted to duplex dwellings by conditional use
permit where environmental conditions on the property support preservation of
trees, drainage patterns, or other related features.
         (c)   Townhouse.
            1.   No building shall contain more than eight dwelling units.
            2.   Each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual front
and rear entrances.
            3.   Private driveways for garages in townhouse developments shall
provide a minimum of 20 feet worth of parking space which does not interfere
with the use of public sidewalks or trails.
            4.   Setbacks:
               a.   Buildings in townhouse developments shall be located at
least 20 feet apart and 20 feet from the back of the curb of a private roadway.
               b.   The applicable setbacks required in the underlying zoning
district shall be met along the perimeter lot lines of the development and
along all public roadways.
         (d)   Multiple-family.
            1.   Development of a multiple-family building shall be compatible
with the existing and planned land use of the area and conflicts shall not be
created between commercial and residential use and activities.
            2.   If in the R-2 district, multiple-family buildings shall be
limited to four dwelling units.
            3.   If in the B-2 District, multiple-family buildings shall be
adequately served by a collector or arterial street.
            4.   If in the B-1, B-2 or CCD district, multiple-family units
shall be in the form of apartments or condominiums located above the first
floor of the building, unless otherwise authorized to be on the first floor by
a conditional use permit meeting the following additional standards:
               a.    The proposed site for residential use is consistent with
the goals and objectives of the City's Comprehensive Plan and detailed in the
Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled "Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan."
               b.   The proposed site does not interrupt the flow of commercial
pedestrian traffic in the “CCD” district.
               c.   Density for ground floor residential units shall not exceed
one unit per 9,000 square feet of lot area, exclusive of land area utilized by,
or required for, permitted uses on the property.
            5.   Multiple-family housing in the R-3, B-1, B-2 or CCD zoning
districts shall be subject to the requirements found in Table 3-8 of §
153.043.
            6.   Multiple-family housing in the R-4 zoning district shall be
subject to the requirements found in Table 3-9 of §
153.043.
      (3)   Group residential facility.
         (a)   Licensed day care facilities qualifying as group residential
facilities shall adhere to the following:
            1.   No overnight facilities are provided for the children served.
Children are delivered and removed daily.
            2.   All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly
adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         (b)   Group residential facility, multi-family.
            1.   Group residential facility, multi-family shall require
authorization through a conditional use permit following the provisions of §
153.028(D), subject to the following conditions:
               a.   Density of residents shall equal no more than one person
per 520 square feet of total net livable area in the principal dwelling.
               b.   Living accommodations for on-site resident staff shall be
deducted from the principal dwelling square footage for purposes of determining
density in division (1) above.
               c.   The property shall be developed to provide two off-street
parking spaces for staff and one space per three residents for visitors.
               d.   Parking areas shall be paved with concrete or bituminous
surface, and shall meet all other standards of parking lot design in this
chapter, with the exception that the use shall be exempt from curb
requirements.
               e.   The property shall maintain a minimum of 30% landscaped
green space based on the gross area of the property.
               f.   The building shall be designed and constructed to be
consistent with the architectural character of the neighborhood in which it is
located.
      (4)   Manufactured homes/manufactured home park.
         (a)   Manufactured homes in general. All manufactured homes within the
City of Monticello shall be built in conformance with the manufactured home
building code and comply with all provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Manufactured home parks. Development of new manufactured home
parks shall be encouraged to use the planned unit development (PUD) process to
allow the city to vary or modify the strict application and requirements for
manufactured home parks to more readily accommodate this type of development.
However, absent development through a PUD, the following requirements shall
apply:
            1.   In general:
               a.   The minimum total manufactured home park area shall be five
acres.
               b.    Each designated manufactured home site shall not be less
than 2,500 sf.
               c.   Notwithstanding the type of development concept used, the
maximum density shall be 13 manufactured homes per acre.
               d.   Manufactured homes shall be the only permitted dwelling
type in a manufactured home park.
               e.   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes
in a manufactured home park.
               f.   There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in a
manufactured home park.
               g.   Laundry and clothing shall be hung out to dry only on lines
located in Council approved areas established and maintained exclusively for
that purpose.
               h.   Adequate storm shelters for all residents of the
manufactured home park shall be provided on-site.
               i.   No part of any manufactured home park shall be used for
non-residential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well-being of park residents and for the management and
maintenance of the park.
               j.   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored in a
manner which meets shoreland district requirements (if within a shoreland
district) and applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces.
            2.   Grading, drainage and groundcover:
               a.   Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage, topography
shall not create hazards to the property or the health and safety of the
occupants.
               b.   The ground surface in all parts of every manufactured home
park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe,
efficient manner.
               c.   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every manufactured
home park shall be paved or covered with stone, screening or other solid
material, or protected with a grass that is capable of preventing soil erosion
and of eliminating objectionable dust.
               d.   No portion of a manufactured home park shall be subject to
unpredictable or sudden flooding.
            3.   Setbacks and lot requirements:
               a.   Manufactured homes shall be separated from each other and
from other buildings and structures by at least 15 feet.
               b.   An accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage
cabinet, carport, windbreak, and porch which has an opaque top or roof, shall,
for purposes of all separation requirements, be considered to be part of the
manufactured home. However, applicable building code separation requirements
shall still apply as applicable.
               c.   There shall be a minimum distance of twenty feet between
the manufactured home stand and abutting park street.
               d.   All manufactured homes, off-street parking spaces, and
structures shall be located at least thirty feet from any property boundary
line abutting upon a public street or highway and at least thirty feet from
other property boundary lines.
               e.   Each manufactured home site shall have frontage on an
approved roadway and the corner of each manufactured home site shall be marked
and each site shall be numbered.
               f.   Dedicated storage area(s) and building(s) shall be for the
sole use of the residents of the manufactured home park and are not available
for use by non-residents.
            4.   Screening and open space:
               a.   All manufactured home parks located adjacent to
residential, recreational, commercial or industrial land uses shall provide
screening such as fences, shrubs, trees along the property boundary line
separating the park and such uses, and shall be maintained by the state license
holder in a neat and orderly manner.
               b.   A minimum of 2,000 sf. for every acre, or part thereof, in
a manufactured home park shall be provided for definable play areas and open
space. Such areas of open space and play area shall not be areas included
within any setback nor shall they include any areas of less than twenty feet in
length or width.
            5.   Parking. Each manufactured home site shall be served by two
off-street parking spaces for automobiles.
            6.   Utilities:
               a.   All manufactured homes shall be connected to a public water
and sanitary sewer system or a private water and sewer system approved by the
State Department of Health.
               b.   All installations for disposal of surface stormwater must
be approved by the city.
               c.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
               d.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating, or other purposes
at each manufactured home site shall be as approved by the city.
               e.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no
overhead wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other
lighting purposes.
               f.   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the
inspection of plumbing, electrical facilities, and related manufactured home
equipment.
               g.   The method of garbage, waste, and trash disposal must be
approved by the city.
               h.   Owner shall pay any required sewer and connection fees to
the city.
            7.   Lighting:
               a.   Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment, and the
like.
               b.   The manufactured home park ground shall be lighted as
approved by the city from sunset to sunrise.
            8.   Accessory structures:
               a.   Accessory storage buildings serving the overall park and
not an individual unit in manufactured home parks, if not reviewed and approved
as part of a PUD, shall be conditionally permitted subject to the following
additional requirements:
                  (i)   The storage building and any accompanying outdoor
storage area shall be for the sole use of the residents of the manufactured
home park and shall not be used by non-residents.
                  (ii)   Accompanying outdoor storage areas shall be fully
screened from surrounding manufactured home units and adjacent properties.
               b.   For individual residential units within a mobile or
manufactured home park, the following standards shall apply:
                  (i)   Only one detached accessory structure, major or minor,
shall be allowed.
                  (ii)   The maximum area of a detached accessory structure
shall be 300 square feet.
                  (iii)   The maximum height of the structure shall be 15 feet
as measured at the median height of the roof.
                  (iv)   The detached accessory structure may not be located
between the front line of the residential unit and the park access road.
                  (v)   Such structure shall be located five feet from any
other structure.
                  (vi)   The location of accessory structures shall be
permitted only with the permission of the manufactured home park owner.
                  (vii)   Detached accessory structures exceeding 300 square
feet shall require authorization through conditional use permit, which shall be
subject to the following requirements:
                     A.   Permission of the park owner.
                     B.   Detached accessory structure shall have access to the
park road.
                     C.   No other detached accessory structure shall be
permitted.
                     D.   The maximum height of the structure shall be 15 feet
as measured at the median height of the roof.
   (D)   Regulations for civic and institutional uses.
      (1)   Active park facilities – private. Private park facilities must be
operated only for the enjoyment and convenience of the associated residents and
their guests.
      (2)   Assisted living facilities.
         (a)    The development must be contained on an single parcel; 30% of
the parcel must be preserved as open space at least two-thirds of which shall
be useable.
         (b)   To continue to qualify for the senior citizen housing
classification, the owner or agent shall annually file with the Community
Development Department a certified copy of a monthly resume of occupants of
such a multiple dwelling, listing the number of tenants by age.
         (c)   One off-street loading space shall be provided in compliance
with §
153.068, Off-Street Loading Spaces.
         (d)   Elevator service shall be provided to each floor level which
contains senior housing units.
         (e)    Efficiency units shall be a minimum floor area of 440 square
feet, and shall not exceed 20% of the total number of apartments in a multiple
dwelling, or the maximum established in the district, whichever is less.
         (f)   One bedroom units shall be a minimum floor area of 520 square
feet.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
         (a)   New cemeteries shall be located on a site or parcel with an area
of at least two and one-half acres.
         (b)   New cemeteries shall be located on a site or parcel that fronts
an arterial or collector street.
         (c)   Cemeteries shall include adequate space for the parking and
maneuvering of funeral processions.
         (d)   Interments shall take place at least 50 feet from any lot line.
         (e)   Cemeteries shall not be located within one-half mile of
Interstate Highway 94.
      (4)   Hospitals. A hospital shall:
         (a)   Be located on a site of at least five acres.
         (b)   Be located on a parcel that fronts or has direct access to an
arterial or collector street.
         (c)    Be served by public water and wastewater systems.
         (d)   Side yards shall be double the minimum requirements established
for the applicable district.
         (e)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property shall be screened with an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type "B") in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (f)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided in compliance
with §
153.067 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (g)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are considered
and satisfactorily provided in accordance with §
153.068.
         (h)   Exterior lighting standards outlined in §
153.063 shall be met.
      (5)   Nursing or convalescent home.
         (a)   Side yards shall be double the minimum requirements established
for the applicable district.
         (b)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property shall be screened with an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (c)   One off-street loading space in compliance with §
153.067 is installed.
      (6)   Places of public assembly.
         (a)   Institutions on parcels exceeding 20,000 square feet in area
shall be located with direct frontage on, and access to, a collector or
arterial street.
         (b)   The buildings are set back from adjoining residential districts
a distance no less than double the adjoining residential setback.
         (c)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property shall be screened with an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (d)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
153.067 of this chapter and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (e)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are considered
and satisfactorily provided.
         (f)   Public assembly in the B-3 District:
            1.   Shall only be allowed on properties of ten acres in size or
more, except that the city may consider such uses on smaller properties by
interim use permit, subject to the following requirements:
               a.   The applicant for an IUP would enter into a development
agreement specifying the duration of the IUP, with a time limitation.
               b.   The applicant would be able to demonstrate that the interim
occupancy would not interfere with other commercial uses of the property,
either in the nature of the use, the times of operation, or demand for
services, such as parking or other impacts.
               c.   The IUP would expire upon the end of the specified term, or
when the applicant vacates the property, and would not be transferable to
another similar public assembly use.
               d.   Changes in scope or nature of the proposed use, operation,
or other elements would require amendment to the IUP and the development
contract, or a new IUP, depending on the change.
               e.   No such IUP, subsequent amendment, or reapplication may
result in a duration of the subject use for more than ten years of cumulative
and continuous occupancy.
            2.   Public assembly uses in the B-3 District must occupy buildings
of at least 20,000 gross square feet of area.
            3.   Public assembly uses in the B-3 District shall provide off-
street parking areas that are designed to meet their unique traffic patterns
and parking accumulation ratios. For the B-3 district, the requirement shall be
one parking space per two and one-half seats in the main assembly area, based
on the building code calculation for maximum occupancy.
            4.   Proposed public assembly applications in the B-3 District will
be required to provide a traffic study demonstrating peak traffic periods, and
the ability to manage traffic loads without negatively impacting the adjoining
public streets. Private and/or public street improvements may be required to
ensure no negative impacts.
            5.   CUP applications for public assembly uses in the B-3 District
will require the identification of the principal use, and those other uses of
the subject property that are proposed as accessory uses. All such uses must be
allowed in the B-3 District.
         (g)   In the CCD, the following conditions shall apply:
            1.   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
            2.   Site planning shall minimize parking lot development adjacent
to public area in the district, including streets, pathways, and open spaces.
      (7)   Public buildings or uses:
         (a)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property shall be screened with an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (b)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting the principal use in compliance with §
153.067 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (d)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are considered
and satisfactorily provided in accordance with §
153.068.
         (e)   Exterior lighting standards outlined in §
153.063 shall be met.
      (8)   Public warehousing, temporary.
         (a)   The use shall be allowed by interim use permit, with a
termination date of no later than five years from the date of approval.
         (b)   The interim use shall apply to public storage of equipment only,
and shall not apply to any private entity, either during or after the term of
the permit.
         (c)   The use, if not allowed as a permitted principal use, may be a
“secondary use” allowed on the property, separate and unrelated to the
principal use.
         (d)   The use shall occupy indoor storage only, in one or more
existing buildings, and shall not include outdoor storage.
         (e)   The use shall otherwise meet all zoning and building code
standards.
         (f)   The use shall not interfere with other permitted, conforming
private uses of the property, nor with the provision of public services to the
property or the neighborhood in which it is located.
         (g)   No signage shall be allowed identifying the use, other than
permitted directional signage on the property.
      (9)   Pre-K-12 schools (public or private):
         (a)   Educational institutions on parcels exceeding 20,000 square feet
in area shall be located with direct frontage on, and access to, a collector or
arterial street.
         (b)   The buildings are set back from adjoining residential districts
a distance no less than double the adjoining residential setback.
         (c)   When abutting a residential use in a residential use district,
the property shall be screened with an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (d)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance with §
153.067 and that such parking is adequately screened and landscaped from
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (e)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are considered
and satisfactorily provided in accordance with §
153.068.
         (f)   Exterior lighting standards outlined in §
153.063 shall be met.
         (g)   If locating within an industrial zoning district:
            1.   A specified termination date is documented.
            2.   The proposed parcel has adequate improved parking to
accommodate the student capacity.
            3.   The proposed building is constructed or altered only in ways
which do not interfere with future refitting for industrial use.
         (h)   Buildings and structures must comply with building code
requirements as adopted by the City of Monticello.
      (10)   Utilities (major).
         (a)   An electrical power facility, substation, or transmission
station as a principal use of property shall be set back at least 100 feet from
all lot lines. Service or storage yards shall be prohibited.
         (b)   All commercial WECS systems shall adhere to the requirements of
§
153.071.
   (E)   Regulations for commercial uses.
      (1)   Adult uses: See §
153.046(T).
      (2)   Auction house.
         (a)   The architectural appearance and function plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to
cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within
a reasonable distance of the lot.
         (b)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with at least a semi-opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “C”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (c)   Parking areas shall be landscaped and screened from view in
compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (d)   Off-street parking shall comply with §
153.067.
         (e)   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict through traffic movements, and shall be subject to the approval of
the Community Development Department.
         (f)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (g)   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the Community Development Department.
         (h)   All signing and information or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
         (i)   The use shall require authorization through a conditional use
permit following the provisions of §
153.028(D).
         (j)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to
change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying the conditions.
         (k)   No pets or livestock may be sold at this auction sales facility.
         (l)   Provisions must be made to control and reduce noise when
adjacent to a residential zoning district.
         (m)    All outside storage and outdoor sales and display, if allowed,
shall be effectively screened from public view in accordance with §
153.060(I) and limited to 10% of the gross floor area of the principal use
building.
      (3)   Auto repair – minor.
         (a)   The use shall be designed to ensure proper functioning of the
site as related to vehicle stacking, circulation, and turning movements.
         (b)    Repair of all vehicles shall occur within an enclosed building.
Temporary outdoor vehicle storage may be allowed in an outdoor storage area
that is no larger than 25% of the buildable area of the lot, is located behind
the front building line of the principal structure, and is screened with a
wooden fence, maintenance free vinyl or masonry wall in accordance with  §
153.062, Fences & Walls.
         (c)   If gasoline is sold on-site, the use shall also comply with the
standards for vehicle fuel sales as regulated by this chapter.
         (d)   Vehicles not being repaired but used as a source of parts shall
be prohibited unless full enclosed within a building.
         (e)   Vehicles that are repaired and are awaiting removal shall not be
stored or parked for more than 30 consecutive days. In cases where a vehicle is
abandoned by its lawful owner before or during the repair process, the vehicle
may remain on site as long as is necessary after the 30-day period, provided
the owner or operator of the establishment demonstrates steps have been taken
to remove the vehicle from the premises using the appropriate legal means.
         (f)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with at least a semi-opaque buffer in accordance with (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type "C") in accordance with §
153.060(G).
      (4)   Automotive wash facilities.
         (a)   All automotive wash facilities shall adhere to the following
standards:
            1.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the
building and site shall be consistent with the existing buildings and area to
avoid impairment in property values and blight within a reasonable distance of
the lot.
            2.   Magazining or stacking space is constructed to accommodate
that number of vehicles which can be washed during a maximum 30-minute period
and shall be subject to the approval of the Community Development Department.
            3.   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be
screened with at least a semi-opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “C”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
            4.   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
            5.   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from
view of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
153.060(F).
            6.   The entire area other than occupied by the buildings or
plantings shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage
which is subject to the approval of the Community Development Department.
            7.   The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject
to the approval of the Community Development Department.
            8.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement, and shall be subject to the
approval of the Community Development Department.
            9.   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
            10.   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
            11.   Car wash facility shall have direct access to major
thoroughfare via driveway or frontage road.
            12.   Intermittent sounds produced by car wash operation such as
the sound of a vacuum or warning signal shall not be audible to adjoining
residential properties.
      (5)   Bed and breakfast facilities.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast operations shall be limited to residential
structures existing prior to the date of this chapter.
         (b)   The property shall be landscaped with at least a basic buffer
(Table 4-2, Buffer Type “A”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (c)    Food served on the premises may be served only to overnight
guests of the bed and breakfast.
         (d)   The owner, operator, or manager of the bed and breakfast shall
reside on the premises.
         (e)   Activities shall be limited to those customary to the operation
of a bed and breakfast facility. Commercial use of the property for other
activities not normally associated with the operation of a bed and breakfast
such as wedding receptions, parties, etc., are not allowed.
         (f)   Operation of the bed and breakfast facility shall comply with
all state regulations governing such facilities.
      (6)   Brew pubs.
         (a)   Brew pubs shall be permitted in the CCD, B-3 and B-4 Districts
provided that:
            1.   The brew pub sells 85% or more of its beer on-site.
            2.   The beer is brewed primarily for sale in the restaurant and
bar, and may be dispensed directly from the brewery’s storage tanks.
            3.   Brewpubs may also sell beer for off-sale consumption in
growler containers provided the conditions are met.
      (7)   Commercial lodging.
         (a)   All hotels and motels shall adhere to the following:
            1.   A hotel or motel shall have its principal frontage, access,
and orientation direction on an arterial street or collector street.
            2.   Vehicular access from a local residential street is
prohibited.
            3.   No more than one security or caretakers quarters may be
provided on the site, and such quarters shall be integrated into the building’s
design.
         (b)   In the CCD District, the following additional standards shall
apply:
            1.   The principal building lot coverage is no less than 50% of the
property, exclusive of easements devoted to public pedestrian use or other
outdoor public spaces.
            2.   The building, site, and signage meet the standards for the
“CCD” District.
            3.    The proposed use demonstrates compatibility and consistency
with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and as detailed in the Comprehensive Plan
Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan.”
      (8)   Communications/broadcasting. All communication antennas, antenna
support structures and satellite dishes shall adhere to the applicable
accessory use requirements for such outlined in §
153.092.
      (9)   Convenience retail. In the B-1 zoning district, the following
conditions shall apply:
         (a)   The site is adequately served by a collector street.
         (b)   Access point to the site shall be limited to a collector street.
         (c)   Conformity with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained.
         (d)   Adequate screening and landscaping from neighborhood residential
districts is provided in accordance with this chapter.
         (e)   Traffic generated by the proposed use does not exceed the
capacity of surrounding streets and intersections to accommodate it.
         (f)   The site shall conform to parking requirements as provided in
this chapter.
         (g)   Building setback from residential uses must be 30 feet or
greater.
         (h)   Parking lot setback from residential uses must be 15 feet or
greater.
         (i)   The site shall conform to signage requirements as recommended by
the city. At no time shall the signage exceed the requirements as provided in
this chapter.
         (j)   The site shall conform to lighting requirements as provided in
this chapter. The lighting shall be restricted to be consistent with the hours
of operation, within one half hour of open and close times.
         (k)   The hours of operation shall be limited to 6:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m., except as may be approved by conditional use permit.
         (l)   In addition to the above requirements, if in the CCD, the
following conditions shall apply:
            1.   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
            2.   Site planning shall maximize building exposure to the street.
            3.   Drive-through facilities shall be located to minimize their
exposure to the street.
            4.   Accessory structures, including canopies, menu boards, pay
windows, and other structures supporting drive-through functions shall be
constructed of materials to match those of the principal building.
            5.   Site planning shall be designed to emphasize connections to
pedestrian facilities.
      (10)   Country club.
         (a)   The principal use, function, or activity is open, outdoor in
character.
         (b)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site be covered by
buildings or structures.
         (c)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with at least an aesthetic buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (d)   The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the districts.
      (11)   Day care center.
         (a)   No overnight facilities shall be provided for children served by
the daycare. Children must be delivered and removed from the facility daily.
         (b)   An outdoor recreational facility:
            1.   Shall be appropriately separated from the parking lot and
driving areas by a fence not less than four feet in height;
            2.   Shall be located continuous to the day-care facility;
            3.   Shall not be located in any yard abutting a major
thoroughfare;
            4.   Shall not have an impervious surface for more than one-half of
the playground area;
            5.   Shall extend at least 60 feet from the wall of the building or
to an adjacent property line, whichever is less, or shall be bound on not more
than two sides by parking and driving areas; and
            6.   Shall be a minimum size of 2,000 sq. ft., or in the
alternative 75 sq. ft. per child at licensed capacity, whichever is the greater
figure.
         (c)   All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly
adhered to and all required operating permits are secured.
         (d)    In addition to divisions (a) through (c) above, day care
centers in the I-1 district shall adhere to the following additional
requirements:
            1.   Only be allowed as a secondary combination use which
complements a primary business;
            2.   Only be conducted in the principal building, and not exceed
20% of the total principal building square footage;
            3.   Be physically separated from the other activities occurring in
the principal building;
            4.   Not have a dedicated entrance (other than emergency exits)
from the exterior of the principal building;
            5.   Not have dedicated off-street parking or signage.
      (12)   Entertainment/recreation – indoor commercial.
         (a)   No auctions shall take place on the premises.
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Noise shall be controlled consistent with the standards of this
chapter.
         (d)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with an aesthetic buffer (Table 4-2, Buffer Type “B”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
      (13)   Entertainment/recreation – outdoor commercial.
         (a)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with at least a semi-opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “C”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (b)    Adequate measures to contain the proposed activity on the
subject site shall be provided.
         (c)   Dust and noise are controlled consistent with City Ordinance.
         (d)   No auctions shall take place on the premises.
         (e)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m..
         (f)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
      (14)   Event centers.
         (a)   Proximity to residential uses. Property upon which event centers
are located shall not abut residentially zoned property, with the exception of
R-3 and R-4 zoned properties.
         (b)   Parking. Off-street parking for event centers shall be provided
in accordance with §
153.067.
         (c)   Event size. Event centers shall be allowed a maximum event size
as specified by the conditional use permit.
         (d)   Number of events.
            1.   Event centers in the B-3 and B-4 District are not restricted
in the number of events allowed unless restricted by the conditional use
permit.
            2.   Event centers in the B-2 District may be limited to certain
days or number of events by the City Council per the conditional use permit.
         (e)   Hours of operation. Event center hours of operation shall be as
established by the City Council per the conditional use permit.
         (f)   Noise regulations. Event centers shall be subject to the noise-
related provisions of City Code.
         (g)   Food regulations. Event centers may serve food and beverages as
an accessory activity in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and
city regulations.
         (h)   Overnight accommodations. Overnight accommodations are not
allowed.
         (i)   Accessibility. All buildings used in conjunction with event
centers shall meet applicable accessibility requirements imposed by state or
federal law.
         (j)   Code compliance. The building(s) used for the event center shall
meet any and all applicable federal, state, and local codes, including those
which apply to sanitary facilities.
         (k)   Outdoor events. All events shall take place within the event
center building(s), unless otherwise allowed in the zoning district or City
Code.
      (15)   Financial institutions. Drive-thru service, if approved as an
accessory use to a financial institution, shall be located to the side or rear
of the principal building whenever feasible.
      (16)   Funeral services.
         (a)   Funeral homes shall have its principal frontage, access, and
orientation direction on an arterial or collector street.
         (b)   All structures shall be located so as not to require access from
an interior residential street.
      (17)   Animal kennel/boarding (commercial):
         (a)   The kennel shall be sufficiently insulated so no unreasonable
noise or odor can be detected off the premises.
         (b)   Outdoor kennels or cages and any outdoor storage uses are
prohibited.
         (c)   The facility’s minimum floor area size must provide for 75
square feet per dog and 20 square feet per cat or other animal at any one time,
exclusive of office or storage area. The facility must provide one cage or air
kennel per animal.
         (d)   Animal wastes shall be immediately cleaned with solid wastes
being enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors and
organisms. All animal waste must be properly disposed of daily by a contracted
refuse service.
         (e)   For all areas for animal care or keeping, wall finish materials
below 48 inches in height shall be impervious, washable materials such as
sealed masonry, ceramic tile, glassboard, or marlite. Floor finish shall be
sealed concrete or other approved impervious surface.
         (f)   If an outdoor exercise area is provided, it shall be at least
100 square feet in size for each animal that occupies that area at any time.
         (g)   Outdoor areas used for animal training or exercise shall be
enclosed or fenced in such manner as to prevent the running at large or escape
of animals confined therein and must fully screen the activity from public
right-of-way and adjacent property.
         (h)   If adjacent to residential uses, outdoor animal use areas must
be set back at least 50 feet from all property lines, and 75 feet from
residential property lot lines.
         (i)   Outdoor use areas must be located in side or rear yards of the
property.
         (j)   Fencing materials must be at least six feet in height, must be
fully opaque and must consist of durable, maintenance-free materials.
         (k)   Use of outdoor areas is limited to 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
         (l)   Outdoor use areas shall be limited to no more than six animals
outside at any one time.
         (m)   Animals must be supervised at all times when outdoors.
         (n)   No more than four animals shall be outside the fenced area per
supervising staff person and all animals must be leashed.
         (o)   Related accessory services including grooming, veterinary
services, and accessory retail sales may be conducted or provided at the
facility, provided that:
            1.   Veterinary services are limited to annual checks and
vaccination services and shall not exceed 30% of the total building area.
            2.   Retail component of kennel facility shall not exceed 15% of
total building area.
         (p)   The facility ventilation system must be completely separate and
independent of other tenant space within the building.
         (q)   All city code, State Health Department and Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency licenses and requirements for such facilities are current and
compliant.
      (18)   Landscaping/nursery business.
         (a)   The business shall be located next to a collector or arterial
street as identified in the comprehensive plan, or otherwise located so that
access to the site will not conduct significant traffic on local residential
streets.
      (19)   Medical/clinical services. In the CCD, the following conditions
shall apply:
         (a)   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
         (b)   Street-level floor planning designed to accommodate use by or
conversion to future use as retail land uses.
      (20)   Offices (commercial).
         (a)   Outdoor storage and accessory building - major shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Buildings or structures with less than 51% of office space shall
not be classified as an office use and shall be regulated by the other use of
the structure.
         (c)   If in the B-1 district, the following shall apply:
            1.   The traffic generated will not raise traffic volumes beyond
the capacity of the surrounding area.
            2.   The architectural appearance of the building housing the
office use shall reflect the building character of the area and shall not be so
dissimilar as to cause impairment of property values or constitute a blighting
influence within the neighborhood.
            3.   The provisions of this chapter are considered and
satisfactorily met.
            4.   The site shall conform to signage requirements provided under
§
153.064.
            5.   The site shall conform to lighting requirements as provided in
this chapter. The lighting shall be restricted to be consistent with the hours
of operation, within one half hour of open and close times.
         (d)   In the CCD, the following conditions shall apply:
            1.   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
            2.   Street-level floor planning designed to accommodate use by or
conversion to future use as retail land uses.
            3.   Parking areas shall be situated so as to minimize their
exposure to public areas, or shall be landscaped and screened to minimize large
expanses of open pavement.
      (21)   Offices (professional) including financial institutions.
         (a)    Outdoor storage and accessory building - major shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Buildings or structures with less than 51% of office space shall
not be classified as an office use and shall be regulated by the other use of
the structure.
         (c)   If in the B-1 district, the following shall apply:
            1.   The traffic generated will not raise traffic volumes beyond
the capacity of the surrounding area.
            2.   The architectural appearance of the building housing the
office use shall reflect the building character of the area and shall not be so
dissimilar as to cause impairment of property values or constitute a blighting
influence within the neighborhood.
            3.   The provisions of this chapter are considered and
satisfactorily met.
            4.   The site shall conform to signage requirements provided under
§
153.064.
            5.   The site shall conform to lighting requirements as provided in
this chapter. The lighting shall be restricted to be consistent with the hours
of operation, within one half hour of open and close times.
         (d)   In the CCD, the following conditions shall apply: Building
architecture shall be designed to reflect retail street-level architecture as
defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and detailed in the Comprehensive
Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan.”
         (e)   Street-level floor planning designed to accommodate use by or
conversion to future use as retail land uses.
         (f)   Parking areas shall be situated so as to minimize their exposure
to public areas, or shall be landscaped and screened to minimize large expanses
of open pavement.
         (g)   Parking supply shall be calculated at the same rate as retail
sales.
      (22)   Personal services.
         (a)    Outdoor storage and accessory building - major shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Drive-thru service shall require authorization through
conditional use permit in accordance with §
153.091.
         (c)   In the B-1 district, the following shall apply:
            1.   Outdoor lighting shall be restricted to be consistent with the
hours of operation, within one half hour of open and close times.
            2.   Hours of operation shall be limited to 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
         (d)   Establishments engaged in dry cleaning shall be held to the
following requirements:
            1.   Dry cleaning processing shall be restricted to the B-
4 district.
            2.   Dry cleaning operations shall be self-contained in terms of
noise and fumes with no venting to outside of building.
            3.   Dry cleaning facilities shall have direct access to major
thoroughfare via driveway or frontage road.
         (e)   Tattoo facilities and providers shall be required to comply with
the requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health licensing requirements
and regulations, and display evidence of such compliance in a conspicuous
location within the establishment.
      (23)   Production breweries and micro-distilleries with accessory taproom
or cocktail room. Production breweries and micro-distilleries with accessory
taproom or cocktail room shall be allowed by conditional use permit in the CCD,
B-3 and B-4 Districts, provided that:
         (a)   The owner of the brewery qualifies for and receives a brewer
license and a malt liquor wholesale license from the State of Minnesota,
according to M.S. § 340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The brewery or micro-distillery includes an accessory brewer's
taproom or cocktail room for the on-sale of products produced on-site, and such
room shall require the applicable license from the City of Monticello,
according to City Code.
         (c)   On-site sale of beer in the form of growlers shall require a
brewery license for off-sale of malt liquor, according to City Code. Off-sale
hours of sale must conform to hours of sale for retail off-sale licensees in
the City of Monticello.
         (d)   Total production of malt liquor may not exceed 10,000 barrels
annually. Of the 10,000-barrel production limit, onsite taproom retail sales
shall not exceed 3,500 barrels annually, 500 barrels of which may be sold off-
sale as growlers. The brewer shall annually submit production reports with the
request to renew a brewer taproom or off-sale malt liquor license.
         (e)   A micro-distillery may be issued a license for off-sale of
distilled spirits. The license may allow the sale of one 375-milliliter bottle
per customer per day of product manufactured on-site, subject to the following
requirements:
            1.   Off-sale hours of sale must conform to hours of sale for
retail off-sale licensees in the City of Monticello.
            2.   No brand may be sold at the micro-distillery unless it is also
available for distribution by wholesalers.
         (f)   Total production of liquor may not exceed 40,000 proof gallons
annually. Of the 40,000 proof gallon production limit, onsite cocktail retail
sales shall not exceed 3,500 proof gallons annually, 500 proof gallons of which
may be sold off-sale in 375 milliliter bottles. The distiller shall annually
submit production reports with the request to renew a cocktail room or off-sale
liquor license.
         (g)   The brewery or micro-distillery facility provides adequate space
for off-street loading and unloading of all trucks greater than 22 feet in
length. In the absence of off-street loading, the city may impose limits on
deliveries or shipments using the public rights-of-way, including regulating
the number of trucks per day and the hours that deliveries are permitted.
         (h)   Loading docks shall be located and designed so they are not
visible from adjoining public streets or adjoining residential zoning.
         (i)   No outdoor storage is permitted on the site, with the exception
that waste handling (refuse and/or recycling) may occur in an enclosure that is
fully screened from adjoining streets and residential zoning.
         (j)   No odors from the business may be perceptible beyond the
property line.
         (k)   The business must be housed in a building that utilizes building
design similar to, or compatible with, common commercial architecture, and
shall avoid large wall expanses which contribute to an industrial environment.
         (l)   The brewer must demonstrate the capacity for producing,
processing and storing malt liquor on the commercial site through the provision
of a building floor plan illustrating production, bottling, and storage areas.
         (m)   All exterior lighting shall be compliant with §
153.063.
      (24)   Recreational vehicle camp site.
         (a)   The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district.
         (b)   The site shall be served by a major or arterial street capable
of accommodating traffic which will be generated.
         (c)   All driveways and parking areas shall be surfaced with a
dustless material.
         (d)   Plans for utilities and waste disposal shall be subject to
approval by the Community Development Department, and all applicable
requirements of the State Pollution Control Agency are complied with.
         (e)   Not more than 5% of the land area of the site shall be covered
by buildings or structures.
         (f)   The locations of such use shall be at minimum 100 feet from any
abutting residential use district.
      (25)   Repair establishments.
         (a)    Outdoor storage and accessory building - major shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Outdoor storage shall be prohibited in the B-1, B-2 and CCD
districts.
         (c)   No process involved in a repair operation shall produce noise,
vibration, air pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb
or endanger neighboring properties.
      (26)   Restaurants.
         (a)   For all restaurants, if the establishment (building) or outdoor
seating area is located within 300 feet of a residential zoning district, the
following standards shall apply:
            1.   The use shall require authorization through a conditional use
permit.
            2.   Primary access from local residential streets shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Restaurants having outdoor seating (including, but not limited
to, seating for dining or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified
entertainment outside of the building) shall comply with the following
standards:
            1.   The outdoor portions of the restaurant shall not operate after
10:00 p.m. unless a special event permit for such events has been approved by
the City Council. Such a permit supersedes the provisions of City Code.
            2.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
            3.   The outdoor portions of the restaurant shall not operate after
10:00 p.m. unless a special event permit for such events has been approved by
the City Council. Such a permit supersedes the provisions of City Code.
            4.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
         (c)   Restaurants having drive-through facilities shall require a
conditional use permit and comply with the following standards:
            1.   All requirements for an accessory drive-through facility shall
be met.
            2.   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the
building and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area
as to cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence
within a reasonable distance of lot.
            3.   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be
screened with at least a semi-opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “C”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
            4.   Each light standard island and all islands in the parking lot
landscaped or covered.
            5.   Parking areas shall be screened from view of abutting
residential districts in compliance with §
153.060(F).
            6.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movements, and shall be subject to the
approval of the Community Development Department.
            7.   If in the CCD District, the following standards shall also
apply:
               a.   The design of the site promotes pedestrian access adjacent
to and along the property.
               b.   Site lighting shall utilize fixtures similar in style to
that designated by the city for use in public areas of the “CCD” district.
               c.   The building, site, and signage meet the standards for the
“CCD” district and design review is conducted by the Planning Commission.
               d.   Drive through facilities comply with the requirements of §
153.092(D)(14).
               e.    The proposed use demonstrates compatibility and
consistency with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and as detailed in the
Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan.”
      (27)   Retail commercial uses (other).
         (a)    If the retail sales includes consignment sales, the following
standards shall apply:
            1.   No auctions shall take place on the premises.
            2.   There shall be no outside storage.
      (28)   Specialty eating establishments.
         (a)    Drive through service shall be reviewed through the conditional
use permit process and shall be located to the side or rear of the building
whenever feasible.
         (b)   For all specialty eating establishments, if the establishment
(building) or outdoor seating area is located within 300 feet of a residential
zoning district, the following standards shall apply:
            1.   The use shall require authorization through a conditional use
permit.
         (c)   Restaurants having outdoor seating (including, but not limited
to, seating for dining or listening to live or recorded acoustic or amplified
entertainment outside of the building) shall comply with the following
standards:
            1.   The outdoor portions of the restaurant shall not operate after
10:00 p.m.
            2.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
         (d)   In addition to the above requirements, if in the CCD, the
following conditions shall apply:
            1.   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
            2.   Site planning shall maximize building exposure to the street.
            3.   Drive-through facilities shall be located to minimize their
exposure to the street.
            4.   Accessory structures, including canopies, menu boards, pay
windows, and other structures supporting drive-through functions shall be
constructed of materials to match those of the principal building.
            5.   Site planning shall be designed to emphasize connections to
pedestrian facilities.
      (29)   Vehicle fuel sales.
         (a)    Regardless of whether the dispensing, sale, or offering for
sale of vehicle fuels including gasoline, diesel, natural gas, or other
petroleum fuels and oils, electric charging stations of more than two such
stations, hydrogen, or any other fuel intended to power motor vehicles of any
sort is the principal use of the property or is accessory to the conduct of the
use or business, the standards and requirements imposed by this chapter for
vehicle fuel sales shall apply. These standards and requirements are, however,
in addition to other requirements which are imposed for other uses of the
property.
         (b)   A principal building is required wherever fuel pumps are to be
installed, which square footage shall be a minimum of 10% of the total lot
area.
         (c)   If the facility is in a Business Zoning District and/or
associated with a business use in another district, such as a PUD district, the
dispensing of such fuels shall be associated with a principal building
accessible to the public, in which retail transactions of such fuels and/or
other goods may occur.
         (d)   Wherever fuel pumps are to be installed, pump islands shall be
installed.
         (e)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
         (f)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         (g)   If in the CCD District, the following standards shall also
apply:
            1.   The design of the site promotes pedestrian access adjacent to
and along the property.
            2.   No more than two curb cuts of 24 feet in width or less shall
be permitted.
            3.   Site lighting shall utilize fixtures similar in style to that
designated by the city for use in public areas of the “CCD” district.
            4.   The building, site, and signage meet the standards for the
“CCD” district and design review is conducted by the Planning Commission.
            5.   The proposed use demonstrates compatibility and consistency
with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and as detailed in the Comprehensive Plan
Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello Small Area Plan.”
         (g)   Electric vehicle charging facilities of more than two charging
stations may be permitted in any zoning district on parcels on which a public
use or building is also present. Such use shall require authorization through
conditional use permit and subject to all provisions of §
153.091(E)(29).
      (30)   Vehicle sales or rental.
         (a)   The minimum building size for any vehicle sales or rental use
shall comply with the standards in Table 5-3.
 
TABLE 5-3: MINIMUM BUILDING SIZE FOR VEHICLE SALES/RENTAL USES
Parcel Size                  Lot Coverage Percent* Minimum Building Size*
Less than 2 acres            5%                    2,500 sq. ft.
2 acres to less than 4 acres 7%                    10,000 sq. ft.
4 acres to less than 8 acres 9%                    20,000 sq. ft.
8 acres or more              9%                    40,000 sq. ft.
*Whichever requires the larger building
 
         (b)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with an opaque buffer (Table 4-2, Buffer Type “D”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (c)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (d)   The outside sales and display area shall be hard surfaced.
         (e)   The outside sales and display area does not utilize parking
spaces which are required for conformance with this chapter.
         (f)   Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department.
         (g)    There is a minimum lot area of 22,500 square feet and minimum
lot dimensions of 150 feet by 130 feet.
         (h)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department shall be installed.
      (31)   Veterinary facilities.
         (a)   Treatment shall be limited to small household pets unless the
facility is conditionally permitted as a rural veterinary facility.
         (b)   In the CCD district, animals shall only be housed overnight if
they are undergoing medical treatment or observation. Overnight boarding for
non-medical reasons shall be prohibited.
         (c)   The site shall be designed to prevent animal waste from being
exposed to stormwater or entering the stormwater system, streams, lakes, or
conveyances. If an area is provided for animals walking, it shall not be
exposed to stormwater and the waste shall immediately be picked up and disposed
of properly.
         (d)   Animals shall not be kept outdoors or be allowed to remain
outside unsupervised.
         (e)   All animals must be leashed.
         (f)   No outside storage of carcasses.
         (g)   The facility shall be subject to an annual inspection by a City
Health Officer at owner's expense.
         (h)   In the CCD, F-1 sub-district, the following additional standards
shall apply:
            1.   Building architecture shall be designed to reflect retail
street-level architecture as defined in the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
detailed in the Comprehensive Plan Amendment entitled “Downtown Monticello
Small Area Plan.”
            2.   Street level floor planning designed to accommodate use by or
conversion to future use as retail uses.
            3.   Overnight animal boarding shall only be allowed as an
accessory use to clinic services, and shall be situated so as to prohibit
exposure, noise, or other nuisance conditions.
      (32)   Retail service.
         (a)   Repair of all goods shall occur within an enclosed building.
         (b)   Outdoor sales and display shall be conducted in accordance with
this chapter.
         (c)   Off-street loading and delivery shall be in accordance with this
chapter and shall not reduce the required off-street parking required for the
site and use.
         (d)   Outdoor storage shall be prohibited.
         (e)   No process involved in a service operation shall produce noise,
vibration, air pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb
or endanger neighboring properties.
         (f)   If adjacent to a residential property, the use shall require
installation of a buffer yard in accordance with this chapter.
      (33)   Cannabis retail business. Including cannabis retailer, medical
cannabis retailer, medical cannabis combination business with retail location,
cannabis microbusiness retail location, and cannabis mezzobusiness retail
location shall be subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Cannabis retailers as enumerated above shall comply with all of
the requirements of §
153.091(C).
         (b)   Any location of a cannabis retailer, medical cannabis retailer,
medical combination business retail location, cannabis microbusiness retail
location or cannabis mezzobusiness retail location in a B-3 or B-4 zoning
district shall have a license or endorsement allowing for retail sales at that
location from the State of Minnesota OCM.
         (c)   The combination of retail cannabis sales and any other cannabis
business as a "microbusiness" or "mezzobusiness" shall be considered a single
business entity for purposes of signage allowances.
         (d)   No cannabis-related business shall permit consumption of any
product on- site, except by conditional use permit, subject to the following
conditions:
            1.   The facility shall only be located in the B-3 or B-4 zoning
district.
            2.   If the facility is a part of a multi-tenant building, the
facility shall ensure that no odors from smoke or other on-site activities can
be detectable outside of the facility.
            3.   Consumption may be allowed only indoors, located in a
specified area physically separated from other retail floor space.
         (e)   No cannabis-related business with a retail component or
endorsement shall provide delivery of its product to retail customers unless
expressly allowed by a state license, except that medical cannabis retailers
may make deliveries to their customers with valid medical prescriptions.
         (f)   Receipt of cannabis products by a retail customer shall only
occur within the building establishment and shall not occur through any outside
pick-up or drive-through delivery process.
   (F)   Regulations for industrial uses.
      (1)   Automobile repair - major.
         (a)   Door opening to service area garage must not face street
frontage.
         (b)   Vehicle storage area limited to 50% of floor space of the
structure housing the auto body shop.
         (c)   All vehicles being serviced and all vehicle parts must be stored
inside or in vehicle storage area.
         (d)   Vehicle storage area shall be enclosed by enclosure intended to
screen the view of vehicles in storage from the outside. Enclosure shall
consist of a six-foot high, 100% opaque fence designed to blend with the auto
body shop structure and consisting of materials treated to resist
discoloration.
         (e)   The floor of the vehicle storage area shall consist of asphalt
or concrete paving.
         (f)   All work on vehicles or vehicle parts shall be conducted within
an enclosed building.
         (g)    No conditional use permit shall be granted for an auto body
shop located within 600 feet of a residential zone existing at the time the
conditional use permit is granted.
      (2)   Bulk fuel sales and storage.
         (a)   Gas storage shall be limited to quantities not exceeding 500,000
cubic feet and not located within 100 feet from any lot line.
         (b)   Gas storage with quantities not exceeding 200 cubic feet, if the
pressure is greater than 100 pounds per square inch, shall not be located
within 50 feet of any lot line.
      (3)   Commercial self-storage facilities.
         (a)   Site layout.
            1.   The minimum lot area shall be at least two acres.
            2.   If separate buildings are constructed, there shall be a
minimum separation of ten feet between buildings.
         (b)   Operation.
            1.   The only commercial uses permitted on-site shall be the rental
of storage bays and the pickup and deposit of goods or property in cold
storage. Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate, or process
goods, to service or repair vehicles, small engines or electrical equipment, or
conduct similar repair activities, to conduct garage sales or retail sales of
any kind, or to conduct any other commercial or industrial activity on the
site.
            2.   Individual storage bays or private postal boxes within a self-
service storage facility use shall not be considered premises for the purpose
of assigning a legal address.
            3.   No more than one security or caretaker quarters may be
developed on the site, and shall be integrated into the building’s design.
            4.   Except as otherwise authorized in this division, all property
stored on the site shall be enclosed entirely within enclosed buildings.
            5.   If buildings or driving lanes are within 200 feet of a
residential dwelling, the hours of public access to the self-storage use shall
be restricted to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (c)   Parking and circulation.
            1.   The one- or two-way traffic flow patterns in aisleways shall
be clearly marked. Marking shall consist, at a minimum, of standard directional
signage and painted lane markings with arrows.
            2.   Appropriate access and circulation by vehicles and emergency
equipment shall be ensured through the design of internal turning radii of
aisleways.
            3.   All access ways shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or
comparable paving materials.
         (d)   Building appearance.
            1.   Garage doors serving individual storage units shall be
perpendicular to a public or private street so as to not be visible from
adjacent streets.
            2.   Outdoor lighting shall be the minimum necessary to discourage
vandalism and theft, and shall be provided in accordance with §
153.063, Exterior Lighting.
            3.   The exterior facades of all structures facing a public street
shall adhere to §
153.070, Building Materials.
            4.   Windows may not exceed 20% of any street-facing façade and
shall not be reflective.
            5.   A maximum of two colors (excluding roof colors) shall be used
on wall facades visible from off-site areas. Colors shall be neutral, and shall
not be used to call attention to the use.
            6.   Perimeter or exterior walls visible from a public street or
detached residential dwelling shall not include metal as a primary material.
            7.   All mechanical equipment and dumpsters shall be fully screened
from off-site views.
         (e)   Fencing. All areas adjacent to a street frontage not occupied by
a building shall include fencing designed in accordance with the following
standards:
            1.   Fences shall be no shorter than six feet or taller than eight
feet.
            2.   Fencing shall be masonry, wrought iron, steel, or aluminum and
shall be painted or vinyl coated with colors that complement the buildings.
            3.   Chain link fencing is prohibited except where the use abuts
lots with a business zoning designation, but in no instance shall chain link
fencing be visible from a public street.
            4.   Metal fences shall include brick pilasters or supports located
with consistent on-center spacing.
            5.   Wooden or chain link entry gates into the use are prohibited.
      (4)   Temporary contractor's yards.
         (a)   Temporary contractor's yards shall be allowed only by interim
use permit, subject to the standards of §
153.028(E).
         (b)   Temporary contractor's yards shall be accommodated only in
association with the construction of public infrastructure projects on public
property, rights-of-way, or public easements.
         (c)   Temporary contractor's yards shall be located only on property
directly abutting a county, state or federal highway, and shall minimize use of
local streets. No local streets may be used by temporary contractor equipment,
with the exception of streets or utilities currently under construction or
reconstruction for that purpose, or which are deemed necessary for such use by
the City Engineer to provide access to a permitted construction site.
         (d)   Such yards shall provide haul routes for approval by the City
Engineer.
         (e)   Such yards shall provide adequate securities, as determined by
the City Council, for the restoration of any municipal infrastructure damaged
due to the operation of the yard.
         (f)   Such yards shall provide, as a condition of their permit, for
adequate stormwater management, dust control, traffic control, and other
requirements of the City Engineer.
         (g)   Interim use permits for temporary contractor's yards shall
include a restoration plan ensuring the restoration of the property to a
condition meeting the zoning and nuisance standards of the city.
      (5)   Extractive uses.
         (a)   All regulations in this chapter shall be met.
         (b)   Plans shall be provided to illustrate how the land will be left
in a usable condition upon cessation of extraction activities, shall prove that
the finished grade will not adversely affect the surrounding land or future
development of the site on which the mining is being conducted, and the route
of trucks moving to and from the site.
         (c)   The interim use permit authorizing the extraction of materials
shall regulate:
            1.   The type(s) of material being mined on the site;
            2.   A program for rodent control;
            3.   A plan for fire control and general maintenance of the site;
            4.   Controls for vehicular ingress and egress, and for control of
material disbursed from wind or hauling of material to or from the site;
            5.   A calendar of specific dates when mining operations will be
conducted, including specific beginning and ending dates, but not for a period
exceeding five years from beginning to end of permit; and
            6.   The submission of a surety by the applicant in an amount
determined by the Community Development Department to be equal to 100% of the
value of the cost of restoring land whereupon mining is to occur and repairing
the degradation of roadways used to transport soils.
         (d)   On-site sales may be allowed as part of the interim use permit
subject to all conditions established by the City Council to ensure the health,
safety, and welfare of those visiting the site and of surrounding property
owners.
         (e)   For extraction of materials under this section within the
Pointes at Cedar Zoning District, no such permit shall be issued except where:
            1.   The city has an interest in the subject property ownership;
            2.   The city is conducting the extraction under a contract with
the fee title owner or representative; or
            3.   The city approves such a permit for another government agency
and/or its contractor for a public project.
         (f)   In the Pointes at Cedar (PCD) or A-O Districts, and at the
city's sole discretion, the IUP under this section may include screening,
concrete mixing, asphalt plant operation, or other activities utilizing the raw
materials being extracted from the site, provided the city finds that no
adverse impact on adjoining property use will occur, including, but not limited
to, noise, odors, dust, or other particulate matter.
         (g)   For the purposes of this section, mining or excavation shall
mean solely the removal of minerals, including sand, stone, clay, gravel, or
soil in quantities of more than 100 cubic yards, and hauling of said materials
from the site. For quantities of less than 100 cubic yards, or for projects
that extract and relocate the materials on the same project site regardless of
quantity, administrative grading permits may be issued without need for an IUP.
         (h)   For extraction operations which will last only one season, such
as for public road construction projects, the City Council may issue a
temporary extraction permit. Such permit may include the placement of a
bituminous hot mix plant and other accessory equipment. Said permits shall only
apply if the extraction site is to be opened, closed and reclaimed within one
year. The Zoning Administrator may waive some of the information required by
division (5)(k) below in the case of a temporary extraction permit. A temporary
extraction permit shall be administered as an interim use permit.
         (i)   For extraction operations issued an interim use permit under
this section, the city may, at its sole discretion, approve the import of
recyclable concrete or asphalt materials for the purpose of crushing and re-use
of those materials off-site. No crushing, washing, refining, processing, or
other recycling machinery shall be operated within 500 feet of any residential
property boundary, nor shall such machinery be operated for more than two weeks
in any calendar year. Any such crushing or similar activity shall be
operational only during the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday.
         (j)   Any extraction IUP issued under this division (F)(5) shall
include, as a component of the IUP, a mandatory land reclamation permit, as
regulated under division (F)(10).
         (k)   Information required. The following information shall be
provided by the person requesting the permit:
            1.   Name and address of person requesting the extraction permit;
            2.   The exact legal property description and acreage of area to be
mined;
            3.   The following maps of the entire site and to include all areas
within 100 feet of the site.
               a.   Map A, existing conditions to include:
                  (i)   Contour lines at five two-foot intervals;
                  (ii)   Existing vegetation;
                  (iii)   Existing drainage and permanent water areas;
                  (iv)   Existing structures; and
                  (v)   Existing wells.
               b.   Map B, proposed operations to include:
                  (i)   Structures to be erected;
                  (ii)   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of
proposed excavation;
                  (iii)   Location of tailings deposits showing maximum height
of deposits;
                  (iv)   Location of machinery to be used in the extraction
operation;
                  (v)   Location of storage of mined materials, showing height
of storage deposits;
                  (vi)   Location of vehicle parking, truck staging, queueing,
or stacking area, access roads and local truck routes;
                  (vii)   Location of storage of explosives, equipment, and
other equipment materials;
                  (viii)   Erosion and sediment control structures;
                  (ix)   Screening, berms, and proposed plantings; and
                  (x)   Location of leak containment structures, in the event
of a petrochemical leak or spill.
               c.   Map C, reclamation plan to include:
                  (i)   All of the information required in division (F)(10).
         (l)   Financial guarantee. The city shall require a cash escrow, or
irrevocable letter of credit in a form and from a financial institution
acceptable to the city, to guarantee compliance with this division and terms
and specifications of the interim use permit. The city shall have the right to
use the financial guarantee to remove stockpiles, complete site rehabilitation,
and correct other deficiencies or problems, in the event the owner or operator
is in default of the permit obligations. The amount of financial guarantee
shall be equal to $5,000 for every permitted acre or any other amount deemed
acceptable by the City Council. The financial guarantee may be adjusted
periodically to reflect ongoing progress, at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator, and shall remain in full force and effect until all conditions
of the permit have been met, including site restoration.
         (m)   Exceptions. An extraction permit shall not be required for any
of the following:
            1.   Excavation for a foundation, basement, or other building
activity, if such work has been properly permitted.
            2.   Excavation by city authorities or their contractors in
connection with construction and maintenance of roads, highways, bridges,
stormwater management projects, parks or utilities within the city limits,
conducted solely within the related easement areas or rights-of-way.
            3.   Grading and removal of materials in accordance with the
development of an approved plat or development, if the activity was reviewed as
part of the approval process.
      (6)   General warehousing.
         (a)   The use shall be located at least 500 feet from any residential
district, school, or day care center.
         (b)   The use shall not locate storage areas within a required setback
or perimeter buffer.
         (c)   The use shall locate outdoor storage areas to the rear of the
principal structure. All such outdoor storage shall be screened from view of
adjacent properties in conformance with the requirements of §
153.060(I).
         (d)   The use shall be designed to ensure proper functioning of the
site as related to vehicle stacking, circulation, and turning movements.
         (e)   The use shall have direct access onto an arterial or collector
roadway.
      (7)   Heavy manufacturing.
         (a)   The use shall be located at least 500 feet from any residential
district, school, or day care center.
         (b)   The use shall locate outdoor storage areas to the rear of the
principal structure and be screened with a fence or wall in accordance with §
153.060(I). The height of materials and equipment stored shall not exceed the
height of the screening fence or wall.
         (c)   The use shall be designed to ensure property functioning of the
on-site transportation circulation system.
         (d)   The use shall have direct access onto an arterial or collector
roadway.
      (8)   Industrial services.
         (a)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be paved.
         (b)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department shall be installed.
         (c)   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (d)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with an opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type "D") in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (e)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from
view of abutting properties and the public right of way in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (f)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
         (g)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         (h)   No outside storage except as permitted or conditionally
permitted in compliance with §
153.092(D)(26).
         (i)   If the business requires the use of large commercial vehicles or
other large machinery, a specific area shall be designated for the exterior
storage of the vehicles and equipment.
      (9)   Industrial self-storage facilities.
         (a)   Such facilities shall occupy no less than 2,000 square feet per
individual storage unit in any complex or building.
         (b)   All individual units shall have overhead door access and service
access separate from other units, and no common access shall be permitted.
         (c)   Such use shall be authorized by conditional use permit.
         (d)   Site layout:
            1.   The minimum lot area shall be at least two acres.
            2.   If separate buildings are constructed, there shall be a
minimum separation of ten feet between buildings.
         (e)   Operation:
            1.   The only commercial uses permitted on-site shall be the rental
of storage bays and the pickup and deposit of goods or property in cold
storage. Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate, or process
goods, to service or repair vehicles, small engines or electrical equipment, or
conduct similar repair activities, to conduct garage sales or retail sales of
any kind, or to conduct any other commercial or industrial activity on the
site.
            2.   Individual storage bays or private postal boxes within a self-
service storage facility use shall not be considered premises for the purpose
of assigning a legal address.
            3.   No more than one security or caretaker quarters may be
developed on the site, and shall be integrated into the building’s design.
            4.   Except as otherwise authorized in this division, all property
stored on the site shall be enclosed entirely within enclosed buildings.
            5.   If buildings or driving lanes are within 200 feet of a
residential dwelling, the hours of public access to the self-storage use shall
be restricted to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (f)   Parking and circulation.
            1.   The one- or two-way traffic flow patterns in aisleways shall
be clearly marked. Marking shall consist, at a minimum, of standard directional
signage and painted lane markings with arrows.
            2.   Appropriate access and circulation by vehicles and emergency
equipment shall be ensured through the design of internal turning radii of
aisleways.
            3.   All access ways shall be paved with asphalt, concrete, or
comparable paving materials.
         (g)   Building appearance.
            1.   Garage doors serving individual storage units shall be
perpendicular to a public or private street so as to not be visible from
adjacent streets.
            2.   Outdoor lighting shall be the minimum necessary to discourage
vandalism and theft, and shall be provided in accordance with §
153.063, Exterior Lighting.
            3.   The exterior facades of all structures facing a public street
shall adhere to §
153.070, Building Materials.
            4.   Windows may not exceed 20% of any street-facing façade and
shall not be reflective.
            5.   A maximum of two colors (excluding roof colors) shall be used
on wall facades visible from off-site areas. Colors shall be neutral, and shall
not be used to call attention to the use.
            6.   Perimeter or exterior walls visible from a public street or
detached residential dwelling shall not include metal as a primary material.
            7.   All mechanical equipment and dumpsters shall be fully screened
from off-site views.
         (h)   Fencing. All areas adjacent to a street frontage not occupied by
a building shall include fencing designed in accordance with the following
standards:
            1.   Fences shall be no shorter than six feet or taller than eight
feet.
            2.   Fencing shall be masonry, wrought iron, steel, or aluminum and
shall be painted or vinyl coated with colors that complement the buildings.
            3.   Chain link fencing is prohibited except where the use abuts
lots with a business zoning designation, but in no instance shall chain link
fencing be visible from a public street.
            4.   Metal fences shall include brick pilasters or supports located
with consistent on-center spacing.
            5.   Wooden or chain link entry gates into the use are prohibited.
         (i)   Open storage. Open storage of recreational vehicles and travel
trailers of the type customarily maintained by persons for their personal use
shall be permitted within a self-service storage facility use, provided that
the following standards are met:
            1.   No outdoor storage shall be visible from off-site views.
            2.   The storage shall occur only within a designated area, which
shall be clearly delineated.
            3.   The size of the storage area shall not exceed 25% of the
buildable area of the site.
            4.   Outdoor storage areas shall be located to the rear of the
principal structure and be screened with a wooden fence or masonry wall at
least eight feet high.
            5.   Storage shall not occur within the areas set aside for minimum
building setbacks.
            6.   No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on-site.
            7.   Vehicles shall be allowed on the premises for storage only.
      (10)   Land reclamation. The interim use permit authorizing land
reclamation shall require:
         (a)   A finished grade plan which will not adversely affect the
adjacent land;
         (b)   The type of fill permitted;
         (c)   A program for rodent control;
         (d)   A plan for fire control and general maintenance of the site;
         (e)   Controls for vehicular ingress and egress, and for control of
material disbursed from wind or hauling of material to or from the site;
         (f)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan;
         (g)   A calendar of specific dates when land reclamation operations
will be conducted, including specific beginning and ending dates;
         (h)   The submission of a surety by the applicant in an amount
determined by the Community Development Department to be equal to 100% of the
value of the cost of restoring land whereupon land reclamation is to occur and
repairing the degradation of roadways used to transport soils; and
         (i)   Unless otherwise required by the City Council, a minimum of four
inches of clean, uncontaminated topsoil shall be placed on all final graded and
rehabilitated areas. The peaks and depressions of the area shall be graded and
backfilled to a surface which will result in a gently rolling topography in
substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding area, and which
will minimize erosion due to rainfall. No finished slope shall exceed 25% in
grade.
      (11)   Light manufacturing. Light manufacturing uses may include a
commercial component provided the following standards are met:
         (a)   The commercial component is directly related to the products
being created by the light manufacturing use.
         (b)   The commercial component shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor
area of the principal use.
      (12)   Machinery/trucking repair & sales and industrial services.
         (a)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department shall be installed.
         (b)   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (c)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with an opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “D”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (d)   Parking or car magazine storage space shall be screened from
view of abutting residential districts in compliance with §
153.060(F).
         (e)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
         (f)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         (g)   Any such facility shall include a principal building of no less
than 30,000 square feet in floor area. The square footage shall be increased by
15% of each acre of the parcel size above five acres.
         (h)   Additional accessory buildings related to the principal use may
be provided on the site as a part of essential operations of this use without
the need for PUD approvals but shall be limited to no more than 15% of the
gross square footage of the principal use. Leasing of such buildings to other
business entities or operations would require the processing of a PUD per §
153.028(O).
         (i)   Any outdoor storage (separate from approved sales and display
area) of vehicles and/or equipment awaiting repair accessory to the principal
use shall be limited to an area of the site no greater than the footprint of
the principal building.
         (j)   Any outdoor storage of vehicles and/or equipment awaiting
repair, repair vehicles and/or equipment must be kept on a paved surface such
as bituminous or concrete, screened from view of adjoining public rights-of-way
and residentially zoned property. Such outdoor storage area must be designated
on an approved site plan. Sites utilizing heavy equipment shall rely on
reinforced concrete to ensure long-term durability of the paved surface.
         (k)   Any outdoor display of for-sale vehicles or equipment must be
paved with a hard surface such as bituminous or concrete and occupy an area of
the site no greater than 200% of the footprint of the principal building, not
including areas dedicated to required parking and general circulation on the
site. Such outdoor display area must be designated on an approved site plan.
         (l)   Sites utilizing heavy equipment shall rely on reinforced
concrete to ensure long-term durability of the paved surface.
         (m)   All conditions pertaining to a specific site are subject to
change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal request,
finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as well or
better by modifying the conditions.
         (n)   If the business repairs semi-trucks or other large machinery, a
specific area shall be designated for the exterior storage of the things being
repaired and/or other vehicles and equipment accessory and incidental to the
vehicle or machinery being repaired or serviced.
      (13)   Production breweries and micro-distilleries. Production breweries
and micro-distilleries shall be allowed as a permitted use in the I-1 and I-
2 District, provided that:
         (a)   The owner of the brewery qualifies for and receives a brewer
license and a malt liquor wholesale license from the State of Minnesota,
according to M.S. § 340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Total production of malt liquor may not exceed 250,000 barrels
annually.
      (14)   Production breweries and micro-distilleries with accessory taproom
or cocktail room. Production breweries and micro-distilleries with accessory
taproom or cocktail room shall be allowed by conditional use permit in the IBC,
I-1 and I-2 Districts, provided that:
         (a)   The facility is located in an area that includes and/or serves
commercial traffic.
         (b)   The facility is not located within 500 feet of a residential
zoning district.
         (c)   The owner of the brewery qualifies for and receives a brewer
license and a malt liquor wholesale license from the State of Minnesota,
according to M.S. § 340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (d)   Total production of malt liquor may not exceed 250,000 barrels
annually.
      (15)   Recycling and salvage center.
         (a)   The center shall be on a parcel with an area of at least four
acres.
         (b)   The center shall be located at least 250 feet from any
residential district, school, or day care.
         (c)   Except for a freestanding office, no part of the center shall be
located within 25 feet of any property line, or the minimum buffer yard
setbacks required in §
153.060(G), whichever requires the greater setback.
         (d)   All recycling activities and storage areas shall be effectively
screened from view by walls, fences, or buildings. Such screening shall be
designed and installed to ensure that no part of recycling activities or a
storage area can be seen from rights-of-way or adjacent lots.
         (e)   All outdoor storage areas shall be surrounded by a solid fence
or wall that is at least eight feet high, located no less than 30 feet from any
public right-of-way, and located no less than 15 feet from any adjacent
property.
         (f)   Recyclable materials shall be contained within a leak-proof bin
or trailer, and not stored on the ground. In the alternative, the outdoor
storage of recyclable materials may occur on the ground, provided that the
ground is surfaced with a suitable material acceptable to the city to control
dust and drainage in a manner that is consistent with the city’s stormwater
management requirements, and is fenced and screened to ensure that no storage
is taller in elevation than the height of the screening.
         (g)   The facility shall at all times comply with the terms of the
MCPA permitting for the site, and shall promptly comply with any order of
mitigation or correction issued by the MPCA when an inconsistency or violation
is found. The city may require additional improvements to protect the city’s
stormwater management system resulting from operation of the facility,
including but not limited to, additional stormwater treatment, reporting, and
notifications as appropriate.
         (h)   There shall be no collection or storage of biodegradable wastes
(as defined by the PCA) on the site. The storage of hazardous wastes shall be,
at all times, found to be in compliance with the requirements and permitting of
the MPCA as applicable to the site and the material in question.
         (i)   Space shall be provided to park each commercial vehicle operated
by the center.
         (j)   The facility shall be administered by on-site persons during the
hours the facility is open.
         (k)   The site shall be maintained free of fluids, odors, litter,
rubbish, and any other non-recyclable materials. The site shall be cleaned of
debris on a daily basis and shall be secured from unauthorized entry and
removal of materials when attendants are not present.
         (l)   Noise levels shall be controlled in accordance with §
153.091(A)(2)(e).
         (m)   Signage shall include the name and phone number of the facility
operator and indicate any materials not accepted by the center.
         (n)   Access to the center shall be from a collector or arterial
street.
         (o)   No dust, fumes, smoke, vibration or odor above ambient level
shall be detectable on abutting properties.
      (16)   Truck or freight terminal.
         (a)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building
and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing, conforming buildings or
areas as to cause impairment in property values or constitute a blighting
influence within the district in which the proposed use is located.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be screened from view of abutting
residential districts and public streets in compliance with §
153.060(I). Trucks and trailers stored on the site shall be screened from
adjoining residential areas and public streets with a combination of trees,
shrubs, and fencing to ensure that no view of the trailers is possible from
abutting residential property to a height of no less than 12 feet.
         (c)   The entire site, other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings, must be paved with a hard surface such as bituminous
or concrete sites utilizing heavy equipment shall rely on reinforced concrete
to ensure long-term durability of the paved surface. All surfaces shall be
developed with a stormwater management system approved by the City Engineer.
         (d)   The site shall meet minimum lot dimension requirements of the
District.
         (e)   No outside storage except as permitted or conditionally
permitted in compliance with §
153.092(D)(26).
         (f)   Parking areas accessible to the public, including customers and
employees shall be paved.
         (g)   No more than 6,000 square feet of the site shall be devoted to
the storage, parking, and/or circulation of semi-tractors and trailers, as
illustrated on a site plan submitted in connection with an application for a
conditional use permit.
         (h)   All service activities shall occur within the principal building
or approved accessory buildings.
      (17)   Waste disposal and incineration.
         (a)   Disposal must be in accordance with Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency regulations.
         (b)   The facility must secure applicable local, county, state, and/or
federal permits.
      (18)   Wrecker and towing services.
         (a)   All outside storage shall be enclosed by a sight-obscuring fence
of up to eight feet in height. The fence and the materials used to construct it
shall be approved of by the city.
         (b)   No vehicles shall be stored within the 100-year floodplain.
         (c)   Upon receiving a motor vehicle which will not be repaired, the
applicant will take measures to ensure that no discharge of any fluids from any
motor vehicle shall be permitted into or onto the ground.
         (d)   No dismantling of motor vehicles shall be allowed.
         (e)   No vehicles shall be stored within 300 feet of a well that
serves as a public or private water supply unless such well serves the
business.
         (f)   Towed vehicles shall be stored only in areas behind the front
building line of the property, screened as required in this section. Towing
equipment and vehicles may be parked in specifically designated locations on an
approved site plan.
      (19)   Industrial cannabis businesses. Including the following cannabis-
related uses: cultivator; manufacturer; wholesaler; transporter; testing
facility; delivery service; mezzobusiness; microbusiness; any such business
that conducts these activities for lower-potency hemp enterprises; any such
business that conducts these activities for medical cannabis enterprises; or
any other cannabis-related business enterprise that is not expressly and solely
a retail business, shall be subject to the following standards:
         (a)   Industrial cannabis businesses shall comply with all of the
requirements of §
153.091(C).
         (b)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be paved.
         (c)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department shall be installed.
         (d)   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way as to have no
direct source of light visible from adjacent land in residential use or from
the public right-of-way and shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (e)   In an I-1 District, when abutting a residential use, the
property shall be screened with an opaque buffer (Table 4-2, Buffer Type "D")
in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (f)   In an I-2 District, no parcel may be used for cannabis-related
business if such parcel abuts a residential district.
         (g)   All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be minimized and shall be in compliance with §
153.064.
         (h)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         (i)   Waste-handling equipment and processes shall be enclosed and
indoors.
         (j)   No outside storage shall be allowed for any cannabis-related
business. Parking of delivery or transport vehicles shall occur only in
designated spaces, and shall not be considered outside storage.
         (k)   Cannabis cultivation uses as part of any industrial cannabis
business shall be subject to the following additional requirements:
            1.   Cannabis cultivators shall limit site and/or building lighting
to ensure that light at the property line is measured at 0.0 footcandles.
            2.   All lighting shall be hooded, downcast, and not create glare
to any other property.
            3.   All buildings shall comply with the city's zoning and building
regulations, and be adaptable to other non-cultivation use.
(Ord. 762, passed 8-23-2021; Ord. 771, passed 2-28-2022; Ord. 780, passed 7-25-
2022; Ord. 791, passed 11-14-2022; Ord. 797, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 799, passed
2-27-2023; Ord. 804, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. 827, passed 6-24-2024; Ord. 828,
passed 6-24-2024; Ord. 830, passed 7-22-2024; Ord. 835, passed 11-25-2024)
§ 153.092 ACCESSORY USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses
that are incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses. The purpose
of this section is to allow a broad range of accessory uses, so long as such
uses are located on the same site as the principal use, and so long as they
comply with the standards set forth in this section in order to reduce
potentially adverse impacts on surrounding lands.
   (B)   General standards and limitations for accessory uses and structures.
      (1)   Compliance with chapter requirements. All accessory uses and
accessory structures shall conform to all applicable requirements of this
chapter. The provisions of this section establish additional standards and
restrictions for particular accessory uses and structures.
      (2)   General standards. All accessory uses and accessory structures
shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Directly serve the principal use or structure;
         (b)   Be customarily accessory and clearly incidental and subordinate
to the principal use and structure;
         (c)   Be subordinate in area, extent, and purpose to the principal use
or structure;
         (d)   Be owned or operated by the same person as the principal use or
structure;
         (e)   Be located on the same lot as the principal use or structure,
subject to the public improvement project exception as regulated by §
153.106(D)(1);
         (f)   Not be constructed or established prior to the time the
principal use or structure is constructed or established, subject to the public
improvement project exception as regulated by §
153.106(D)(1);
         (g)   Together with the principal use or structure, not violate any
standards of this chapter;
         (h)    Not be located within platted or recorded easements or over
underground public utilities without an encroachment agreement issued by the
Community Development Department;
         (i)   An accessory building shall be considered an integral part of
the principal building if it is connected to the principal building either
directly or by an enclosed passageway. Such accessory buildings shall adhere to
requirements for the principal building;
         (j)   If a principal building is proposed to be removed with no
immediate replacement, all accessory structures shall also be removed;
         (k)   Not constitute a combination use, which is the combination of
two principal uses (combination uses will not meet the above standards in terms
of being subordinate or providing service to the principal use).
      (3)   Location of accessory uses or structures. Except for fences and
walls, the following standards shall apply to all accessory structures:
         (a)   All accessory structures, except as may be specifically denoted,
shall be located at least six feet from all lot lines, and at least the minimum
distance from public rights-of-way as denoted in the individual zoning district
regulations. All such structures must meet applicable building codes related to
fire separation distance.
            1.   A side yard setback of 20 feet shall be maintained from
property lines abutting public streets.
         (b)   Detached accessory buildings shall be six feet or more from any
other building or structure on the same lot.
         (c)   Detached accessory structures shall not be located beyond the
front building line established by the principal structure, with the exception
of commercial canopies and signs, which must adhere to regulations of this
chapter.
      (4)   Maximum height.
         (a)   Detached accessory buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height
except in the I-1 and I-2 districts.
         (b)   No accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal
structure unless specifically allowed by this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum number of accessory structures. In all residential zoning
districts, the following limitations on accessory structures shall apply:
         (a)   No more than one private, detached major accessory building may
be erected for each dwelling;
         (b)   No more than one private, detached minor accessory building may
be erected for each dwelling;
         (c)   Additional major or minor accessory buildings may be erected if
approved via a conditional use permit pursuant to §
153.028(D).
      (6)   Temporary family health care dwellings opt out. The City of
Monticello opts-out of the requirements of M.S. §
462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
   (C)   Table of permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Listed accessory uses. 
Table 5-4, lists the allowed types of accessory uses and structures within each
zoning district. If a specific accessory use is allowed in a district, the
column underneath the district is marked with a "P." If a specific accessory
use is conditionally permitted in a district, the column underneath the
district is marked with a "C." If the accessory use or structure is not allowed
in a district, the column is shaded. If there is a reference contained in the
column entitled "additional requirements", refer to the cited section(s) for
additional standards that apply to the specific accessory use.
      (2)   Interpretation of unidentified accessory uses.
         (a)   The Community Development Department shall evaluate applications
for accessory uses that are not identified in
Table 5-4 on a case-by-case basis using the following standards:
            1.   The definition of “accessory use” (see §
153.012 – Definitions) and the general accessory use standards and limitations
established in §
153.092(B);
            2.   The additional regulations for specific accessory uses
established in §
153.092(D), Specific Standards for Certain Accessory uses;
            3.   The purpose and intent of the base and overlay districts in
which the accessory use or structure is located;
            4.   Any potential adverse impacts the accessory use or structure
may have on other lands in the area as compared to other accessory uses
permitted in the district; and
            5.   The compatibility of the accessory use or structure, including
the structure in which it is housed (if applicable), with other principal and
accessory uses permitted in the district.
         (b)   The decision of the Community Development Department to permit
or deny an unlisted use or structure is final, but may be appealed pursuant to
§
153.028(H).
      (3)   Table of permitted accessory uses and structures.
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B     P I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 CCD C B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                                   D C
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B     P C  I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 CCD D    B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                                        C
                                                                         §
Accessory building - minor        P P P P P P P P P P P P P        P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                         (1)
                                                                         §
Accessory building - major        P P P P P P P C P P P P P        P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                         (2)
                                                                         §
Adult use - accessory                                                  C 153.092v(D)
                                                                         (3)
                                                                         §
Agricultural buildings            P                                      153.092(D)
                                                                         (4)
Air conditioning units            P P P P P P P P P P P P P        P P P §
                                                                         153.060(I)
                                                                         §
Automated teller machines (ATMs)                  P P P P P       P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                        (5)
                                                                        §
Automobile repair - major                             C       See        153.092(D)
                                                              Ord.       (6)
                                                              776        §
Automobile repair - minor                             C C                153.092(D)
                                                                         (7)
                                                                         §
Boarder(s)                        P P P                                  153.092(D)
                                                                         (8)
                                                                         §
Bulk fuel sales/storage                             P P P C          C C 153.092(D)
                                                                         (9)
Cocktail room (retail sales                                              §
accessory to micro-distillery)                        C C C        C C C 153.092(D)
                                                                         (10 )
Co-located wireless               C C C C C C C C C C C C C        C C C §
telecommunications antennae                                              153.072(E)
Columbarium (accessory use to                                            §
cemeteries)                       P P P P P P P                          153.092(D)
                                                                         (11 )
 
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C C B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D D C
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C       I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C P C D B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D       C
                                                                        §
Commercial canopies                               P P P P P       P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                        (12)
Commercial transmission/                              C C C       C C C §
reception antennae/ structures                                         153.072(D)
                                                                       §
Donation drop-off containers                          P P  See         153.092(D)
                                                            Ord.        (13)
                                                            776        §
Drive- through services                             C C C C       C C C 153.092(D)
                                                                        (14)
Entertainment/ recreation -                                             §
outdoor commercial                                    C C C       C     153.092(D)
                                                                        (15)
EV charging facility, 2 or fewer  P P P P P P P P P P P P P P     P P P  
stations
EV charging facility, 3-                    P P     P P P C C     P P P  
6 stations
EV charging facility, 7+ stations           C C     C C C C C     C C C  
Fences or walls                   P P P P P P P P P P P P P       P P P §
                                                                        153.062
Greenhouse/ conservatory (non-                                          §
commercial)                       P P P P P P P P P P P P P       P P P 153.092(D)
                                                            See         (16)
                                                            Ord.        §
Heliports                                         C C   C C 776   C     153.092(D)
                                                                        (17)
                                                                        §
Home occupations                  P P P P P P P P   P     P             153.092(D)
                                                                        (18)
 
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C C B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D D C
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C       I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C P C D B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D       C
                                                                        §
Indoor food/ convenience sales                    P P P P P       P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                        (19)
                                                                        §
Indoor storage                                    P P P P P       P     153.092(D)
                                                                        (20)
                                                                        §
Incidental light manufacturing                    P P P P P       P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                        (21)
Machinery/ trucking repair &                                            §
sales                                                 C                 153.092(D)
                                                                        (22)
Office                                            P P P P P See   P   P none
Off-street loading space                    P P  C P P P P Ord.  P P P §
                                                            776        153.068
Off-street parking                P P P P P P P P P P P P P       P P P §
                                                                        153.067
                                                                        §
Open sales                        P                   C C           C   153.092(D)
                                                                        (23)
Operation and storage of                                                §
agricultural vehicles, equipment, P                                     153.092(D)
and machinery                                                           (24)
Outdoor seating - accessory to
restaurant, bar, production                         P P P P             §
brewery with taproom,                               / / / /             153.092(D)
microdistillery with cocktail                       C C C C             (25)
room, and/or brewpubs
 
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C C B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D D C
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P C  I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C D    B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D      C
Outdoor sidewalk sales & display                  P P P P P      P P P §
(businesses)                                                           153.092(D)(26)
                                                                       Residential §
                                                                   P P 153.092(D)(27)
Outdoor storage                   P P P P P P P P                  / / ( a)
                                                                   C C Industrial §
                                                                       153.092(D)(27)
                                                                       ( b)
Park facility buildings &         P P P P P P P P P P P P P      P P P §
structures (public)                                                    153.092(D)(28)
Private amateur radio             P P P P P P P P P P P P P     P P P §
                                                                      153.092(B)
Private receiving antennae and    P P P P P P P P P P P P P See  P P P §
antenna support structures                                  Ord.       153.072(C)
Retail sales of goods (as part of                 P P P P P 776  P C C §
an office or industrial use)                                           153.092(D)(29)
Shelters (storm or fallout)       P P P P P P P P P P P P P      P P P §
                                                                       153.092(D)(30)
Sidewalk café                                      P P P P            City Code
Sign(s)                           P P P P P P P P P P P P P      P P P §
                                                                       153.092(D)(31)
Solar energy system               P P P P P P P P P P P P P      P P P §
                                                                       153.092(D)(32)
Swimming pool                     P P P P P P P P P P P P P      P P P §
                                                                       153.092(D)(33)
 
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C C B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D D C
TABLE 5-4: ACCESSORY USES & STRUCTURES BY DISTRICT
Use Types                         Base Zoning Districts
“P” = Permitted               A R R R T R R M B B B B C P C  I I I Additional
“C” = Conditionally Permitted O A 1 2 N 3 4 H 1 2 3 4 C D    B 1 2 Requirements
“I” = Interim Permitted                               D      C
Taproom (retail sales accessory                                        §
to production brewery)                                C C C      C C C 153.092(D)
                                                                       (34)
Large trash handling and                                               §
recycling collection area               P  P P P P P P P P      P P P 153.092(D)
                                                                       (35)
Wind energy conversion system,                                        §
commercial                                            C C  See  C C C 153.092(D)
                                                            Ord.       (36)
Wind energy conversion system,                              776        §
non-commercial                    C C C C C C C C C C C C C      C C C 153.092(D)
                                                                       (37)
                                                                       §
Wireless telecommunications                         C C C C      C C C 153.062(E)
support structures                                                     §
                                                                       153.062(F)
 
   (D)   Additional specific standards for certain accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory building – minor.
         (a)   Minor accessory buildings do not require a building permit, but
shall comply with all applicable zoning regulations.
         (b)   In the M-H district, one minor accessory building for storage of
equipment and refuse is permitted for each manufactured home provided the
accessory building can meet all required setbacks, and is designed of weather
resistant material that will enhance the general appearance of the lot.
      (2)   Accessory building – major.
         (a)   In all residential districts except M-H, the following shall
apply:
            1.   Size.
               a.   Except by conditional use permit issued pursuant to §
153.092(D)(2)(a)1.b. below, no detached accessory building shall exceed 10% of
the rear yard of the parcel on which it is located, nor shall any combination
of attached garage and detached accessory building exceed the following maximum
area, whichever is less:
                  (i)   1,200 square feet; or
                  (ii)   The gross square footage of the principal building
footprint.
               b.   The size limitations for accessory building area listed in
§
153.092(D)(2)(a)1.a. above may be increased, up to a maximum square footage of
1,500 square feet, by the issuance of a conditional use permit when the
following conditions are found to exist:
                  (i)   Accessory building space is to be utilized solely for
the storage of residential personal property of the occupant of the principal
dwelling, and no accessory building space is to be utilized for commercial
purposes.
                  (ii)   The parcel on which the accessory building is to be
located is of sufficient size such that the building will not crowd the open
space on the lot.
                  (iii)   The accessory building will not be so large as to
have an adverse effect on the architectural character or reasonable residential
use of the surrounding property.
                  (iv)   The accessory buildings shall be constructed to be
similar to the principal building in architectural style and building
materials.
            2.   Private garages.
               a.   Private garages shall be used by the family or families
residing upon the premises, except as follows:
                  (i)   One-half of the private garage spaces on the premises
can be rented to non-residents of the property for private passenger vehicles
and/or non-commercial vehicles, trailers, or equipment if sufficient off-street
parking in full compliance with this chapter is provided elsewhere on the
property.
               b.   No business, service, or industry shall be carried on
within a private garage;
               c.   Private garages shall not be used for the storage of more
than one commercial vehicle owned or operated by a resident per dwelling unit.
            3.   Accessory buildings, major, shall be required to meet the
building materials standards as found in §
153.070(C) as applicable.
         (b)    In the M-H district, the standards of §
153.091(C)(4)(b)8. shall apply.
         (c)   In all business and industrial districts, commercial or business
buildings and structures for a use accessory to the principal use is permitted
provided that:
            1.   In all districts except I-2, such use shall not exceed 30% of
the gross floor space of the principal use.
            2.   In the I-2 district, such use shall not exceed 40% of the
gross floor space of the principal use.
      (3)   Adult use/accessory activities provided that:
         (a)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241,
as it may be amended from time to time, are not permitted and are prohibited.
         (b)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use shall be
classified as an adult use/principal.
         (c)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited from locating
in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
         (d)   Adult use/accessory activities shall comprise no more than 10%
of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located or shall comprise
an area no greater than 100 sq. ft. of floor area in which it is located,
whichever is smaller.
         (e)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be restricted and
prohibited from access to minors by the physical separation of such items from
areas of general public access:
            1.   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
            2.   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any
material other than the publication title.
            3.   Other use. Adult use/accessory activities not specifically
cited shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of
the Zoning Administrator.
         (f)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited in
establishments where liquor is served.
         (g)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited at any public
show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical, or other performance or
exhibition presented to the general public where minors are admitted.
      (4)   Agricultural buildings. Agricultural buildings shall adhere to
overlay and base zoning district requirements for maximum height, but may
exceed the height of the principal structure in the A-O zoning district.
      (5)   Automated teller machines. Drive-up or drive-through ATMs shall be
located in a manner that will not result in stacking of vehicles in a public
right-of-way.
      (6)   Automobile repair – major.
         (a)   Door opening to service area garage must not face street
frontage.
         (b)   All vehicles being serviced and all vehicle parts must be stored
inside or in designated vehicle storage area.
         (c)   Repair of all vehicles shall occur within an enclosed building.
         (d)   Temporary outdoor vehicle storage may be allowed in an outdoor
storage area that is no larger than 25% of the buildable area of the lot, is
located behind the front building line of the principal structure, and is
screened with a wooden fence or masonry wall in accordance with §
153.062, Fences and Walls.
         (e)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the Community Development
Department.
         (f)   No conditional use permit shall be granted for an auto repair
shop - major located within 300 feet of a residential zone existing at the time
the conditional use permit is granted.
      (7)   Automobile repair -- minor.
         (a)   The use shall be designed to ensure proper functioning of the
site as related to vehicle stacking, circulation, and turning movements.
         (b)   Repair of all vehicles shall occur within an enclosed building.
Temporary outdoor vehicle storage may be allowed in an outdoor storage area
that is no larger than 25% of the buildable area of the lot, is located behind
the front building line of the principal structure, and is screened with a
wooden fence or masonry wall in accordance with §
153.062, Fences and Walls.
         (c)   Vehicles not being repaired but used as a source of parts shall
be prohibited unless fully enclosed within a building or fully screened in
accordance with division (b) above.
         (d)   Vehicles that are repaired and are awaiting removal shall not be
stored or parked for more than 30 consecutive days. In cases where a vehicle is
abandoned by its lawful owner before or during the repair process, the vehicle
may remain on site as long as is necessary after the 30-day period, provided
the owner or operator of the establishment demonstrates steps have been taken
to remove the vehicle from the premises using the appropriate legal means.
      (8)   Boarders.
         (a)   Within the A-O zoning district, the boarding or renting of rooms
shall be limited to two persons per dwelling unit.
         (b)   Within the R-1 zoning district, the boarding or renting of rooms
shall be limited to one person per dwelling unit.
      (9)   Bulk fuel sales and storage.
         (a)   All accessory use bulk fuel storage must be associated with the
principal activity on the site. In Industrial Districts, accessory fuel
dispensing shall not be available for sale to the public.
         (b)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage tank containers shall be limited
to 1,000 gallons.
         (c)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage may not be located within the
required front yard setback.
         (d)   Accessory use bulk fuels storage facilities shall include one
shrub landscaping planting per every ten feet of bulk fuel facility perimeter,
planted in accordance with required safety clearances.
         (e)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage shall be setback ten feet from
all property lines and 20 feet from any public right-of-way.
         (f)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage must include a containment
structure and bollards for tank protection per applicable fire code or other
regulations.
         (g)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage facilities shall comply with all
MPCA and State Fire Marshal requirements, all other permit, testing and listing
requirements, and all applicable codes and standards such as NFPA 58.
         (h)   Accessory use bulk fuel storage facilities located within the
drinking water supply management area (DWSMA) must comply with the City
Engineer’s recommendations for site and containment arrangement.
      (10)   Cocktail rooms. Cocktail rooms shall be conditionally permitted as
accessory uses only to a micro-distillery as a principal use and subject to
those conditions found in §
153.091 for micro-distillery.
      (11)   Columbarium. Accessory use to cemeteries only. Subject to the
following:
         (a)   Columbarium structures shall set back a minimum distance of 50
feet from all lot lines and public right-of-way.
         (b)   The principal use cemetery shall comply with all other
applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance, with the exception of the
requirement for distance from I-94.
         (c)   No portion of the columbarium shall exceed height requirements
for accessory buildings in the district in which the structure is located.
         (d)   The columbarium shall be constructed of masonry materials for
all exterior surfaces, with architectural metals and glass for details and
openings only.
      (12)   Commercial canopies.
         (a)   Canopies shall not be internally illuminated.
         (b)   Lighting shall be recessed and down directional.
      (13)   Donation drop-off containers.
         (a)   No more than one container shall be located on a parcel.
         (b)   Be limited to one sign no more than four feet high and 16 square
feet in area that displays the name and telephone number of the party
responsible for the donation container.
         (c)   The container shall not block access to required parking spaces
or parking lot aisles.
         (d)   The container shall not be located within 50 feet of a dwelling.
      (14)   Drive-through service.
         (a)   In general, all drive through service lanes shall adhere to the
following:
            1.   Service provided by the drive through facility is accessory to
an interior on-site service within the same building.
            2.   Drive-through facilities shall be located at least 200 feet
from all residential zoning districts except R-3 and R-4.
            3.   Drive-through lanes shall be designed to avoid disruption of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic flow, both on- and off-site.
            4.   Drive-through lanes shall not be located between the
restaurant entrance and customer parking spaces whenever possible.
            5.   Landscaping and other site improvements are included which
screen automobile stacking space from the public street.
            6.   Voice amplifiers used in conjunction with drive-thru services
shall not be audible to adjoining residential areas.
            7.   Minimum stacking space shall be provided per the requirements
of Table 5-5:
TABLE 5-5: REQUIRED STACKING SPACES FOR DRIVE-THROUGHS
Use or Activity [1] Minimum Number of Stacking Spaces (per Measured From [2]
                    lane)
TABLE 5-5: REQUIRED STACKING SPACES FOR DRIVE-THROUGHS
Use or Activity [1]        Minimum Number of Stacking Measured From [2]
                           Spaces (per lane)
Automated teller machines  3                          Teller machine
(ATMs)
Financial institution      3                          Teller window
Personal services (e.g.    4                          Window
dry- cleaning)
Restaurants                8 per order board          Pick-up window
Retail commercial uses     4                          Window
(e.g. pharmacy)
Specialty eating
establishments - coffee    12                         Window
shops
                           Uses not specifically listed shall have their
Other                      stacking space minimums determined by the Community
                           Development Department based on standards for
                           comparable uses listed above.
[1]: See
Table 5-1: Uses By District, and/or
Table 5-4: Accessory Uses by District
[2]: Distance shall be measured from window where products are delivered when
more than one window is used for the drive through service.
 
         (b)   Drive through service within the CCD district shall adhere to
the following additional standards:
            1.   The principal building occupies no less than 40% of the
property, exclusive of easements devoted to public pedestrian use or other
outdoor public spaces.
            2.   The building, site, and signage meet the standards for the
“CCD” district, and design review is conducted by the Planning Commission.
            3.   The proposed use demonstrates compatibility and consistency
with the City’s Comprehensive Plan and Downtown Revitalization Plan.
      (15)   Entertainment/recreation – outdoor commercial.
         (a)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with at least a semi-opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “C”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (b)   Adequate measures to contain the proposed activity on the
subject site shall be provided.
         (c)   Dust and noise are controlled consistent with City Ordinance.
      (16)   Greenhouse/conservatory (non-commercial). Greenhouses or
conservatories accessory to residential units shall not be used for commercial
purposes.
      (17)   Heliports. Heliports shall be limited to hospitals which require
such for responding to medical emergencies.
      (18)   Home occupations.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prevent competition
with business districts and to provide a means through the establishment of
specific standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety, and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, this section is intended
to provide a mechanism enabling the distinction between permitted home
occupations and special or customarily "more sensitive" home occupations so
that permitted home occupations may be allowed through an administrative
process rather than a legislative hearing process.
         (b)   Application. Subject to the nonconforming use provision of this
chapter, all occupations conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions
of §
153.092(D)(18). This section shall not be construed, however, to apply to home
occupations accessory to farming.
         (c)   Exempted home occupations. Daycare home facilities shall be
governed by the regulations for “group residential facilities” which are
subject to the standards in §
153.091(C)(3).
         (d)   General provisions applicable to all home occupations. All home
occupations shall comply with the following general provisions:
            1.   All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of the
City Code.
            2.   Not have substantial adverse effects or noise impacts on
nearby residential neighborhoods.
            3.   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
            4.   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the residential use of the premises, should not change the residential
character thereof and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
            5.   No home occupation shall require internal or external
alterations or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings
except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
            6.   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials
used in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home
occupation may be parked on the site.
            7.   The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and
building codes.
            8.   All signage on the property shall conform to requirements for
residential signs in §
153.064.
            9.   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless said occupation is contained entirely within the
principal building and will not require any on-street parking facilities.
            10.   No home occupation shall generate more traffic than one car
for off-street parking at any given point in time.
            11.   If located in the CCD district, the home occupation must meet
all requirements for a “permitted home occupation” enumerated in §
153.092(D)(18)(e) below.
         (e)   Specific requirements for permitted home occupations. Permitted
home occupations may be conducted without any city approvals provided the
provisions applicable to all home occupations [§
153.092(D)(18)(d)] and the following additional provisions are all met:
            1.   Employees of the business who do not reside on the premises
shall be prohibited from conducting any business activities whatsoever on the
premises.
            2.   All permitted home occupations shall be conducted entirely
within the principal building and may not be conducted in an accessory
building.
            3.   No customer visits to the premises shall be permitted.
            4.   No deliveries other than those routinely made in a residential
district (U.S. Mail, United Parcel Service, etc) shall be permitted.
            5.   The home occupation shall not be used as a work staging area
whereby employees report to the home occupation site to receive work
assignments for working elsewhere.
         (f)   Specific requirements for administrative home occupations.
            1.   Administrative home occupations may be established only after
securing an administrative home occupation permit from the Community
Development Department. Examples of home occupations allowed by permit include:
art studio, dressmaking, secretarial services, foster care, professional
offices and teaching with musical, dancing, and other instructions which
consist of no more than one pupil at a time and similar uses.
            2.   Administrative home occupation shall not involve any of the
following: repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other than
that which is typically found in a dwelling; teaching which customarily
consists of more than one pupil at a time; over-the-counter sale of merchandise
produced off the premises, except for brand name products that are not marketed
and sold in a wholesale or retail outlet.
            3.   All administrative home occupations shall comply with the
provisions applicable to all home occupations [§
153.092(D)(18)(d)] and the following additional provisions in order to obtain a
permit:
               a.   No person other than a resident shall conduct the home
occupation, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unusual or
unique conditions or need for non-resident assistance from no more than one
person, and that this exception would not compromise the intent outlined in §
153.092(D)(18)(a).
               b.   All administrative home occupations shall be conducted
entirely within the principal building and may not be conducted in an accessory
building.
               c.   Customer visits to the home occupation shall be arranged by
appointment with no more than one customer scheduled to be on the premises at
any given point in time.
               d.   No deliveries other than those routinely made in a
residential district (U.S. Mail, United Parcel Service, etc) shall be
permitted.
               e.   The home occupation shall not be used as a work staging
area whereby employees report to the home occupation site to receive work
assignments for working elsewhere.
         (g)   Specific requirements for conditionally permitted home
occupations.
            1.   Conditionally permitted home occupations may be established
only after securing a conditional use permit subject to the requirements of §
153.028(D). Examples of conditionally permitted home occupations include:
barber and beauty services, photography studio, group lessons, saw sharpening,
skate sharpening, small appliances and small engine repair and the like.
            2.   All conditionally permitted home occupations shall comply with
the provisions applicable to all home occupations [§
153.092(D)(18)(d)] and the following additional provisions in order to obtain a
permit:
               a.   No person other than a resident shall conduct the home
occupation, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unusual or
unique conditions or need for non-resident assistance from no more than four
people, and that this exception would not compromise the intent of §
153.092(D)(18).
               b.   The home occupations shall not create a parking demand in
excess of that which can be accommodated on the premises as regulated by §
153.067, or five vehicles, whichever is less.
               c.   No vehicle on the premises shall be parked closer than 15
feet from the curb line.
               d.   Areas for stock-in-trade incidental to the performance of
the service and equipment other than that which is typically found in a
dwelling shall be identified on a site plan, and the applicant shall need to
successfully demonstrate how such can be accommodated out of view from
neighboring properties.
         (h)   Inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any
home occupation permit to inspect the premises in which the occupation is being
conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section or any
conditions additionally imposed.
      (19)   Indoor food/convenience sales. Indoor food/convenience sales
occurring as an accessory use shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Size. The square footage used by food sales operations,
including preparation, sales, and storage, but not including dining, shall not
exceed 30% of the principal use.
         (b)   Location.
            1.   To the maximum extent practicable, food sales areas shall be
internal to the principal use they serve.
            2.   In residence districts, such accessory uses shall be limited
to schools, colleges, universities, hospitals, airports, bus stations, and
other similar institutions permitted in the district.
         (c)   Entrances. Entrance to the food sales area shall be via the
principal use it serves and shall not have dedicated off-street parking areas
or signage.
      (20)   Indoor storage.
         (a)   The area used for storage shall not exceed 35% of gross floor
area square footage of the principal use.
         (b)   Storage shall be related to the products being sold or offered
by the principal use.
         (c)   If located within the CCD, storage accessory uses may be located
on an adjacent or adjoining parcel within the CCD, subject to above
regulations.
      (21)   Incidental light manufacturing.
         (a)   Light manufacturing or assembly are permitted accessory uses in
all industrial zoning districts subject to the restrictions for the primary use
outlined in this chapter.
         (b)   Light manufacturing or assembly of products in commercial zoning
districts shall only be conducted if:
            1.   The manufacturing or assembly is related to the products being
sold or offered by the principal use.
            2.   No less that 40% of the goods manufactured or assembled as
part of the accessory use shall be sold in a retail outlet for the principal
use.
            3.   The retail outlet for the principal use shall be used for
display, consumption, sale and other retail activity related to the goods
produced by the accessory use, and such retail activity (whether display,
consumption and/or sale) must constitute a minimum of 50% of the gross floor
area of the principle use.
            4.   The area used for light manufacturing or assembly activity
shall not exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
            5.   The light manufacturing or assembly shall be compatible with
adjacent property owners, tenants, and civic institutions as well as proposed
uses as found in the comprehensive plan.
            6.   The light manufacturing or assembly shall be very specific,
and only be allowed in conjunction with a specific business activity (i.e.
authorization for manufacturing monuments shall only be allowed as an accessory
use to a monument shop. If the principal use changes to cell phone sales, the
accessory use of manufacturing monuments shall cease).
      (22)   Machinery/trucking repair and sales and industrial services.
         (a)   The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure, or plantings shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the Community Development
Department.
         (b)   A drainage system subject to the approval of the Community
Development Department shall be installed.
         (c)   When abutting a residential use, the property shall be screened
with an opaque buffer (
Table 4-2, Buffer Type “D”) in accordance with §
153.060(G).
         (d)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
         (e)   No other outside storage except as permitted or conditionally
permitted in compliance with §
153.092(D)(26).
         (f)   If the business repairs semi-trucks or other large machinery, a
specific area shall be designated for the exterior storage of the things being
repaired and/or other vehicles and equipment accessory and incidental to the
vehicle or machinery being repaired or serviced.
      (23)   Open sales. In commercial and industrial districts where open
sales is conditionally permitted, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Outside services, sales and equipment rental connected with the
principal uses is limited to 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
This percentage may be increased through issuance of the conditional use
permit.
         (b)   Outside sales areas are fenced or screened from view of
residentially zoned areas and public right-of-way in compliance with §
153.060(I).
         (c)   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
         (d)   Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
         (e)   Does not take up parking space as required for conformity to
this chapter.
      (24)   Operation and storage of agricultural vehicles, equipment, and
machinery. Vehicles, equipment, and machinery being stored shall be incidental
to a permitted or conditionally permitted uses.
      (25)   Outdoor seating – accessory to restaurant, bar, production brewery
with taproom, micro-distillery with cocktail room, and/or brewpubs.
         (a)   For all restaurants, restaurant/bars, production brewery with
taproom, microdistillery with cocktail room, and/or brewpubs, if the
establishment (building) or outdoor seating area is located within 300 feet of
a residential zoning district, the following standards shall apply:
            1.   The use shall require authorization through a conditional use
permit.
            2.   Primary access from local residential streets shall be
prohibited.
         (b)   Restaurants, restaurant/bars, production brewery with taproom,
microdistillery with cocktail room, and/or brewpubs having outdoor seating
(including, but not limited to, seating for dining or listening to live or
recorded acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of the building) shall
comply with the following standards:
            1.   The outdoor portions of the facility shall not operate after
10:00 p.m. unless a special event permit for such event has been approved by
the City Council. Such a permit supersedes the provisions of City Code.
            2.   No noise or music shall be generated in any outdoor seating
area adjacent to residential property after 9:00 p.m.
            3.   The outdoor seating area shall not obstruct the movement of
pedestrians along sidewalks or through areas intended for public use.
            4.   Outdoor seating shall be fenced and enclosed to control access
to the area, with service only from the inside of the facility.
            5.   No outdoor seating area shall be located within 100 feet of
any property containing single-family, two-family, or townhouse residential
units.
            6.   Any outdoor seating area adjacent to residential property
shall be fenced and fully screened from view of said residential property.
            7.   All lighting shall be hooded and light glare or reflection
shall not be visible from adjoining residential property.
            8.   Fences are permitted for outdoor seating areas, provided such
fence maintains 50% opacity within front yard areas.
      (26)   Outdoor sidewalk sales and display. Outdoor sidewalk sales and
display areas associated with legally permitted retail uses shall:
         (a)   Not encroach into areas necessary for the safe ingress and
egress into the retail structure;
         (b)   Maintain a minimum pedestrian walkway of at least five feet in
width along the front of the display;
         (c)   Take place only on an improved dustless surface;
         (d)   May not take up required parking;
         (e)   The area of the site devoted to sidewalk sales and display under
this section shall not exceed 5% of the gross floor area of the principal use.
Sidewalk sales and display which exceed 5% of the gross floor area of the
principal use may be allowed by conditional use permit.
      (27)   Outdoor storage.
         (a)   In all zoning districts, all materials and equipment, except as
specifically denoted in this chapter, shall be stored within a building or
fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties except for the
following:
            1.   Clothes line pole and wire.
            2.   Recreational equipment and vehicles, subject to off-street
parking regulations in §
153.067.
            3.   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on
the premises.
            4.   Off-street parking of passenger vehicles, emergency vehicles
and small commercial vehicles in residential areas, unless otherwise required
to be screened according to §
153.067.
            5.   Propane tanks, fuel oil tanks, and other similar residential
heating fuel storage tanks which do not exceed 1,000 gallons in capacity and
shall not be located within five feet of any property line.
            6.   Wood piles in which wood is stored for fuel provided that not
more than ten cords shall be stored on any property. A cord shall be four-feet
by four-feet by eight-feet.
            7.   All wood piles shall be five feet or more from the rear and
side yard property lines and shall be stored behind the appropriate setback
line in front yards.
            8.   Solar energy systems.
            9.   Wind energy conversion systems.
         (b)   In the I-1 and I-2 districts, the following shall apply:
            1.   When abutting a zoning district or use other than industrial,
the outdoor storage use shall require authorization through a conditional use
permit following the provisions of §
153.028(D).
            2.   The storage area shall be located within the rear yard, except
that an outdoor storage area may also include that area between the front
building line and the rear yard along the interior lot side. Storage may not be
located beyond the side building line on the street side of a corner lot. On a
double-fronting lot, outdoor storage may be located in the side yard only.
            3.   In the I-1 District, outdoor storage shall be limited to 50%
of the gross square footage of the principal building. Storage may be increased
up to 100% of the gross square footage of the principal building by conditional
use permit.
            4.   In the I-2 District, outdoor storage shall be limited to an
area not to exceed the gross square footage of the principal building.
            5.   In the I-1 District, outdoor storage areas shall meet the
minimum building setback from all side and rear property lines per the
requirements of this chapter and when adjacent to zoning districts or uses
other than industrial, shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from the adjacent
property line.
            6.   In the I-2 District, outdoor storage shall be setback ten feet
from all side and rear property lines and when adjacent to zoning districts or
uses other than industrial, shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from the
adjacent property line.
            7.   The area is fenced and screened from view of neighboring uses
and from the public right-of-way in compliance with this section.
               a.   In the I-1 district, screening shall consist of masonry
walls or fencing constructed of wood or vinyl and shall provide for 100%
opacity. Such fences or walls shall meet all other requirements of §
153.062.
               b.   In the I-2 District, metal fences may be permitted when the
materials have been recycled and reprocessed to resemble new building materials
and are designed for use as a fencing material, and when such materials are
designed to resemble allowed materials as listed in §
153.062(J)(1).
               c.   Additional landscaping of one evergreen tree per six feet
of linear fenceline is required to be planted along the exterior of outdoor
storage area in conformance with §
153.060. Trees may be staggered along fenceline.
               d.   Fences and walls shall not exceed 15 feet in height as
measured from the existing grade to the top of the fence panel.
               e.   Height of storage may not exceed the screening wall or
fence, or the height of required landscaping.
            8.   Outdoor storage shall be allowed only on improved surface of
asphalt or concrete.
            9.   Storage in shipping containers shall be prohibited unless such
storage occurs within the screened outdoor storage area.
            10.   There shall be no storage of hazardous waste, as defined by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
            11.   Exterior storage areas shall comply with all applicable fire
codes and no portion of the outdoor storage shall block access to hydrants,
fire sprinklers, or other fire-fighting equipment.
            12.   Noise shall be controlled consistent with the standards of
this chapter.
            13.   All lighting shall be in compliance with §
153.063.
            14.   Does not take up parking space as required for conformity to
this chapter.
            15.   Outdoor storage areas shall comply with all requirements for
grading, drainage, stormwater management and erosion control per §
153.069.
      (28)   Park facility buildings and structures. Limitations on number and
size for accessory buildings and structures shall not apply to active or
passive public park facilities.
      (29)   Retail sales of goods (as part of an office or industrial use).
         (a)   Location:
            1.   All sales are conducted indoors within a clearly defined area
of the principal building reserved exclusively for retail sales. Said sales
area must be physically segregated from other principal activities in the
building.
            2.   The retail sales area must be located on the ground floor of
the principal building.
         (b)   Sales area. The retail sales activity shall not occupy more than
15% of the gross floor area of the building.
         (c)   Access. The building where such use is located is one having
direct access to a collector or arterial level street without the necessity of
using residential streets.
         (d)   Hours. Hours of operation are limited to 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
The provisions of this section are considered and satisfactorily met.
      (30)   Shelters (storm or fallout). Storm and fallout shelters shall not
alter the character of the premises with respect to the primary use as
permitted in the district.
      (31)   Sidewalk café.
         (a)   Sidewalk cafes shall be subject to the requirements of the City
Code.
      (32)   Sign(s). All signs within the city shall comply with the finishing
standards contained in §
153.064, Signs.
      (33)   Solar energy systems.
         (a)   All solar energy systems.
            1.   All solar energy systems shall be operable and maintained in
good repair.
            2.   Solar energy systems shall meet all required setbacks and
height requirements of the underlying zoning district.
            3.   Solar energy systems shall be an integral part of the
structure to which they are attached.
            4.   As a means of evidencing existing solar access conditions
prior to installation, the owner of a solar energy system may file notarized
photographs of the subject area with the Community Development Department prior
to installation of said system.
            5.   Solar energy systems shall be allowed on roofs of principal
and accessory buildings, provided other requirements of this section are met.
            6.   Solar energy systems shall be designed to minimize glare with
adequate screening and/or coatings, as appropriate.
            7.   Solar energy systems shall be located in such a way as to be
screened from visibility of the public right-of-way, or shall be integrated
into the architecture of the structure so as to be visually inconspicuous.
            8.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be located only in
the rear yard of residential property, and shall not occupy an area more than
20% of the size of the perimeter foundation of the principal building.
         (b)   Solar energy systems in Business (B) and Industrial (I)
districts and the CCD District.
            1.   Solar energy systems in the B, I, and CCD Districts shall
comply with the provisions of §
153.092(D)(33)(a)1. through 4.
            2.   Roof-mounted solar energy systems in these districts shall be
allowed as permitted accessory uses on principal and accessory buildings,
provided such systems do not extend more than six feet above the height of the
roof where they are mounted.
            3.   Ground mounted solar energy systems in these districts shall
be allowed by conditional use permit, and together with accessory buildings,
shall not exceed an area of any parcel greater than that allowed for accessory
buildings in the applicable zone.
            4.   Ground mounted solar energy systems in these districts shall
be allowed only when the property owner can show that roof-mounted systems are
not feasible due to building structural issues.
      (34)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   All swimming pools, hot tubs, spas, and other water tanks
exceeding 24 inches in depth must be fenced in accordance with the provisions
of §
153.092(D)(34)(b) below.
         (b)   Residential swimming pool fences shall be constructed as
follows:
            1.   Residential swimming pool fences must be at least 48 inches in
height. The fence must not permit the passage of a four-inch sphere through
openings in the fence. Fences must be constructed of durable, corrosion- and
decay- resistive materials. Openings below the fence to grade must not exceed
four inches.
            2.   Where an above-ground pool structure has walls that are at
least four feet in height, the pool wall may serve to meet the fencing
requirements; however, the access to the pool must provide equivalent
protection to prevent unauthorized entry.
            3.   Fences for swimming pools must include a self-closing, self-
latching device on all gates. Latches must be installed at least three feet six
inches above grade. Gates must not exceed four feet in width and must meet the
same construction requirements as fences. You must provide temporary fencing
during installation if your yard is not fenced. Building permits are required
for fences exceeding six feet in height.
         (c)   Commercial swimming pool fences shall be not less than five feet
in height and constructed as required by the Minnesota Department of Health.
         (d)   In addition to the requirements above, all swimming pools shall
adhere to the City Code requirements for swimming pools outlined in City Code.
      (35)   Taprooms. Taprooms shall be conditionally permitted as accessory
uses only to production brewery as a principal use and subject to those
conditions found in §
153.091.
      (36)   Trash handling and recycling collection area.
         (a)   Multiple-family structures with more than four dwelling units
shall adhere to the following:
            1.    All large trash handling and recycling collection area(s)
shall be located within the principal structure and be totally screened from
public view by the principal building.
            2.   Compactors that are attached to the principal structure shall
be totally screened from eye level view from public streets and adjacent
properties by a screening wall constructed of the same building material as the
principal structure.
         (b)   Trash handling and recycling collection area(s) serving
commercial and industrial uses shall be subject to the following standards:
            1.   Depicted on site plans. The location and configuration of
screening for large trash handling and recycling collection areas shall be
depicted on all required landscaping plans.
            2.   Screening configuration.
               a.   Large trash handling and recycling collection areas shall
be fully screened from adjacent properties.
               b.   In cases where access to large trash handling and recycling
face a public right-of-way, the access way shall be screened with an opaque
gate. Chain link shall not be used for such gates.
               c.   Compactors that are attached to the principal structure
shall be totally screened from eye level view from public streets and adjacent
non-industrial properties by a screening wall constructed of the same building
material as the principal structure.
            3.   Setbacks.
               a.   Large trash handling and recycling shall meet the required
setbacks for structures as required in the underlying zoning district.
               b.   In all cases, large trash handling and recycling collection
areas shall be at least six feet from a side or rear lot line, and shall not be
located within front yards or corner side yards.
            4.   Design materials. If a wall or detached accessory structure is
used to screen or define a large trash handling and recycling collection area,
the building materials used for the wall or accessory structure shall be
compatible with the principal structure and be readily served through swinging
doors.
            5.   Ground surface requirements. Areas intended for large trash
handling and recycling collection areas shall be surfaced with concrete that
meets or exceeds minimum city standards.
            6.   Drainage. Eating establishments and other uses that produce
significant amounts of liquid waste shall configure areas intended for large
trash handling and recycling collection areas to drain to the sanitary sewer
system through grease traps or similar devices as required by the Community
Development Department.
      (37)   Wind energy conversion system – commercial. All commercial WECS
systems shall adhere to the requirements of §
153.071.
      (38)   Wind energy conversion system – non-commercial.
         (a)   Non-commercial WECS systems shall have a total height of less
than 200 feet.
         (b)   All non-commercial WECS systems shall adhere to the requirements
of §
153.071.
      (39)   Electric vehicle charging station facility.
         (a)   Electric vehicle charging stations of two or fewer chargers, may
be allowed as permitted accessory uses to any principal use of property in any
zoning district, provided:
            1.   The facilities, including the charging stations, transformers,
batteries, inverters, or any other equipment provided for such use are located
no closer than 20 feet from any public street right-of-way.
            2.   In residential districts, such facilities shall only be
provided within a building, such as a garage or other approved structure,
except that the power receptacle and coupler may be placed on the outside of a
building for external connection. The facilities shall not be available to the
general public.
            3.   If the facilities are located within a building, such building
shall meet all required building setbacks and other building standards as
required by the applicable zoning district.
            4.   The facilities are available to vehicles parked in legal
parking spaces on the property.
            5.   The facilities may service vehicles that occupy required
parking for the subject property.
            6.   The facilities include only directional or informational
signage that is in compliance with the requirements of the city's sign
ordinance. The use shall not expand the allowable signage on the subject
property.
            7.   The facilities shall be serviced by electric lines on the
subject property which are buried underground.
         (b)   If the proposed accessory EV charging/fueling station facility
is of more than two chargers and is to be located on property subject to a
conditional use permit or planned unit development, an amendment to such CUP or
PUD shall be processed and approved according to the applicable regulations.
         (c)   If the proposed accessory EV charging facility is to be located
on a commercial or industrial property where the facility is available only to
the employees of the business, or a multiple family property where the facility
is available only to tenants of the property, and in either case, not to the
general public, the number of charging stations may exceed two as a permitted
accessory use. Any such facility that provides seven or more such charging
stations shall do so through approval of a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 797, passed 2-13-2023; Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.093 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Purpose. This section allows for the establishment of certain
temporary uses of limited duration and special events, provided that such uses
comply with the standards in this division and are discontinued upon the
expiration of a set time period. Temporary uses and special events shall not
involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building or structure.
   (B)   Permit required. Temporary uses and structures that require a permit
shall be reviewed in accordance with the process outlined in §
153.028(L), Temporary Use Permits; and if a building permit is also necessary,
in accordance with §
153.028(I), Building Permits.
   (C)   General standards for temporary uses. Temporary uses, structures, or
events shall comply with the following:
      (1)    Obtain the appropriate permits (as required), including the
signature of the property owner on which the temporary use is proposed;
      (2)   Not be detrimental to property or improvements in the surrounding
area or to the public health, safety, or general welfare;
      (3)   Be compatible with the principal uses taking place on the site;
      (4)   Not have substantial adverse effects or noise impacts on nearby
residential neighborhoods;
      (5)   Not include permanent alterations to the site;
      (6)   Meet all the setbacks of the underlying base and overlay zoning
districts, unless expressly stated otherwise in this chapter;
      (7)   Temporary signs permitted under the code and associated with the
use or structure shall be removed when the temporary activity ceases;
      (8)   Not violate the applicable conditions of approval that apply to a
site or use on the site;
      (9)   Not interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use
located on the property; and
      (10)   Contain sufficient land area to allow the temporary use,
structure, or special event to occur, as well as adequate land to accommodate
the parking and traffic movement associated with the temporary use, without
disturbing environmentally sensitive lands.
   (D)   Table of allowed temporary uses and structures. Table 5-6 summarizes
allowed temporary uses and structures and any general or specific standards
that apply. Temporary uses or structures not listed in the table are
prohibited.
TABLE 5-6: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Use or Allowable Duration  Permit(s) Required Additional Requirements
Structure        (per site)
TABLE 5-6: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Use or     Allowable Duration  Permit(s) Required    Additional
Structure            (per site)                                Requirements
Temporary Structure
                     Until issuance of
                     certificate of
Construction         occupancy or two                          §
dumpster (on public  days following      Yes                   153.093(E)(1)(a)
ROW/property)        expiration or
                     finaling of a
                     building permit
Construction         30 days without a                         §
dumpster (on private building permit     No                    153.093(E)(1)(b)
property)
                     Until issuance of                         §
Construction trailer certificate of      Yes                   153.093(E)(2)
                     occupancy
                     See §§
Mobile food units    112.25 through
                     112.29
Recreational vehicle 1 month             Yes                   §
use                                                            153.093(E)(3)
Real estate office/  Until 85% occupancy                       §
model sales home     of the phase is     Yes + building permit 153.093(E)(4)
                     reached
Temporary mobile     30 days             Yes + building permit §
cell site                                                      153.093(E)(5)
TABLE 5-6: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Use or Allowable Duration  Permit(s) Required Additional Requirements
Structure        (per site)
TABLE 5-6: TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Use or     Allowable Duration    Permit(s) Required Additional
Structure            (per site)                               Requirements
Temporary Structure (cont'd)
Temporary sign       120 days per year     Yes                §
                                                              153.064(I)
Temporary storage in See §                Yes                §
a portable container 153.093(E)(6)                            153.093(E)(6)
Tents, canopies,                                              §
tarp garages, and    30 days per year      Yes                153.093(E)(7)
hoop buildings
Temporary Sale
                     Continuous; up to 5                      §
Farmer’s market    months per year on a  Yes                153.093(E)(8)
                     single site
                     4 days per event; 3                      §
Garage/yard sale     events total per      No                 153.093(E)(9)
                     calendar year
                     60 days per permit;                      §
Seasonal sales       120 days per calendar Yes                153.093(E)(7) and
                     year maximum term                        §
                                                              153.093(E)(11)
Temporary merchant   See City Code
Wayside stands       See City Code
Special Events
Special events       See City Code
 
   (E)   Specific standards for temporary uses.
      (1)   Construction dumpster.
         (a)   The placement of a temporary construction dumpster or other
trash receptacle within a public right-of-way or other site owned by the city
shall be subject to standards in the Monticello City code as may be applicable.
         (b)   Temporary trash receptacles or dumpsters located outside public
rights-of way are not required to obtain a temporary use permit, but shall
comply with the following standards:
            1.   Be located to the side or the rear of the site, to the maximum
extent practicable;
            2.   Be located as far as possible from lots containing existing
development;
            3.   Not be located within a floodplain or otherwise obstruct
drainage flow;
            4.   Not be placed within five feet of a fire hydrant or within a
required landscaping area;
            5.   Be located outside of any required tree protection fencing and
the dripline of existing trees; and
            6.   Be secured with a cover to prevent litter and debris from
escaping the dumpster.
      (2)   Construction trailer.
         (a)   Construction trailers may be permitted on a construction site
provided that the trailer is:
            1.   Approved by the Community Development Department for location,
safety, and compatibility with adjacent properties;
            2.   Located on the same site or in the same development as the
related construction;
            3.   Not located within a required landscape area; and
            4.   Associated with development for which a valid building permit
has been or will be issued.
         (b)   The applicant shall be required to restore the trailer site to
its previous condition if the trailer is located off the construction site.
      (3)   Recreational vehicle use.
         (a)   A recreational vehicle owned by a non-resident, guest, or
visitor may be parked or occupied by the guest or visitor on private property
containing a permanent dwelling unit for a period not to exceed 30 days while
visiting the resident of the property.
         (b)   The recreation vehicle shall have self-contained sanitary
facilities or standard on-site facilities as required by the Community
Development Department.
         (c)   The parking location of a recreational vehicle shall adhere to
the requirements of §
153.067, Off-Street Parking.
      (4)   Real estate sales office/model sales home. One temporary real
estate sales office or model sales home per builder or developer shall be
permitted in a section or phase of a new residential or nonresidential
development provided the office or model home:
         (a)   Is aesthetically compatible with the character of surrounding
development in terms of exterior color, predominant exterior building
materials, and landscape;
         (b)   Complies with the applicable standards in the approved
development plan (if applicable);
         (c)   Is operated by a developer or builder active in the same phase
or section where the use is located; and
         (d)   Is removed or the model home is converted into a permanent
residential use once 85% occupancy in the section or phase of the development
is reached.
      (5)   Temporary mobile cell site.
         (a)   A temporary mobile cell site may be erected after issuance of a
building permit in the case of equipment failure or testing, or for an interim
period (limited to 30 days) after a conditional use permit for a permanent cell
site is approved.
         (b)   Temporary mobile cell sites shall be removed within 72 hours
following completion of testing, the installation of the permanent tower, or
resolution of equipment failure.
      (6)   Temporary storage in a portable shipping container. Temporary
storage in a portable shipping container shall be permitted to serve an
existing use subject to the following standards.
         (a)   For residential uses, a portable shipping container shall not be
located:
            1.   On a lot without prior approval from the Community Development
Department;
            2.    On an unimproved or unpaved surface;
            3.   Within ten feet of any lot line or structure;
            4.   In a manner that impedes ingress, egress, or emergency access;
and
            5.   On an individual parcel or site for more than 30 total days
over any one-year period.
         (b)   For commercial, industrial or civic uses, portable shipping
containers shall not be located:
            1.   On a lot without prior approval from the Community Development
Department;
            2.   Within ten feet of any lot line or structure;
            3.   In a manner that impedes ingress, egress, or emergency access;
and
            4.   On an individual parcel or site for more than 30 total days
over any one-year period unless associated within an active building permit.
Successive 30 day permits without additional fee may be authorized until a
certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (7)   Tents, canopies, tarp garages, and hoop buildings. Tents, canopies,
tarp garages, and hoop buildings or similar membrane structures shall:
         (a)   Obtain a building permit from the Community Development
Department;
         (b)    Maintain a minimum clearance of six feet from all other
structures and tents;
         (c)   Not exceed more than one on a single parcel (the Community
Development Department may approve more than two as a part of a special event
on a single parcel;
         (d)   Not be erected for more than a total of 30 days in any calendar
year with the exception of those uses with valid permits issued under §
153.093(E)(8) through (11);
         (e)   Be limited to a maximum of three occurrences per parcel per
year;
         (f)   Not be placed within required landscape areas;
         (g)   Not obstruct emergency vehicle access to adjacent lots or
disrupt pedestrian circulation; and
         (h)   The lot or site shall be restored to its original condition
within two days of removal of the tent, canopy, tarp garage, or hoop building.
      (8)   Farmer’s market. Farmer’s markets shall:
         (a)   Be limited to the retail sale of agriculture, horticulture, or
floricultural products;
         (b)   Provide adequate ingress, egress, and off-street parking areas;
         (c)   Not reduce minimum parking areas below the minimum required for
the property under the City Code;
         (d)   Not be located with any right-of-way;
         (e)   Renew all applicable temporary use permits annually;
         (f)   Be subject to the sign standards in §
153.064, Signs;
      (9)   Garage/yard sales.
         (a)   Garage or yard sales shall:
            1.   Be limited to a maximum of three per dwelling per year;
            2.   Not exceed a maximum duration of four consecutive days per
sale;
            3.   Occur only between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
            4.   Not place items for sale, signs or other advertising within
the public right-of-way, or impede the passage of traffic on streets in the
area of the sale;
            5.   Conduct vehicle parking in accordance with the standards in
this chapter and any other applicable city requirements;
            6.   Not negatively affect neighboring properties in terms of
noise, trash, parking, or impede the flow of traffic on nearby streets;
            7.   Not permit loud or boisterous conduct on the premises;
            8.   Not allow unsold items or other sale-related materials to
remain in public view following conclusion of the sale; and
            9.   Remove all sale related signage immediately upon conclusion of
the sale.
         (b)   The owner and/or tenant of the premises on which a sale is
conducted, shall be responsible for the maintenance of good order and decorum
on the premises during the hours of the sale.
      (10)   Wayside stands. A wayside stand shall:
         (a)   Be limited to the retail sale of agriculture, horticulture, or
floricultural products;
         (b)   Not exceed 750 square feet in area;
         (c)   Not be located with any right-of-way;
         (d)   Be authorized in writing by the landowner if conducted on
property not owned by the operator of the wayside stand;
         (e)   Not operate for more than three days per site in any given week;
         (f)   Not reduce available parking areas below that which is required
by code;
         (g)   Provide adequate ingress, egress, and off-street parking areas;
and
         (h)   Be subject to the sign standards in §
153.064, Signs.
      (11)   Seasonal sales. Seasonal sales shall:
         (a)   Be authorized in writing by the property owner if conducted on
property not owned by the seasonal sale operator;
         (b)   Not be located within any right-of-way;
         (c)   Not reduce available parking areas below that which is required
by code;
         (d)   Provide adequate ingress, egress and off-street parking areas;
and
         (e)   Be subject to the sign standards in §
153.064.
      (12)   Temporary cannabis events. Any temporary cannabis events shall
comply with all requirements of §§
96.21 through
96.24 and
96.25.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 835, passed 11-25-2024)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 153.105 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances, and conditions under which nonconforming
buildings, structures, and uses will be operated and maintained. The zoning
ordinance establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area
for the location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary
and consistent with the establishment of these districts that nonconforming
buildings, structures, and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this chapter that all
nonconforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
§ 153.106 AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE.
   (A)   Legally conforming existing structures and uses in existence on the
effective date of this chapter as denoted in §
153.004 which become nonconforming to this chapter shall be considered legally
nonconforming and shall be treated as follows:
      (1)   A use which is no longer permitted due to a change in zoning shall
be considered a legally nonconforming use subject to all conditions for such
use as outlined in this chapter, and shall not be expanded, except that legally
nonconforming owner-occupied residential uses may be expanded to improve
livability, provided the expansion meets all other applicable conditions of the
zoning district in which the residential use is located and does not increase
any existing nonconforming condition on the property, including the number of
residential units in a building.
      (2)    A structure which becomes nonconforming to a required setback or
setbacks shall be viewed as a legally nonconforming structure, subject to all
conditions for such structure as outlined in this ordinance, and may be
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, but not including expansion, except as allowed by division (H)
below.
   (B)   With the exception of structures and uses that meet the requirements
of §
153.107(A), any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of
this chapter as denoted in §
153.004 may not be expanded, but may be continued—including through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance, or improvement—unless:
      (1)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of more
than one year; or
      (2)   Any nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the county assessor at the time of damage, and no building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this
case, a municipality may impose reasonable conditions upon a zoning or building
permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property or
water body. When a nonconforming structure in the shoreland district with less
than 50% of the required setback from the water is destroyed by fire or other
peril to greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the county assessor at the time of damage, the structure setback may
be increased if practicable and reasonable conditions are placed upon a zoning
or building permit to mitigate created impacts on the adjacent property or
water body.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (B)(2) above, any nonconforming use
located in the floodplain overlay district that is destroyed by fire or other
peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its market value, as determined by
the Community Development Department, shall be regulated to the extent
necessary to maintain eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program, and
in no case shall be continued or re-established in a manner that results in
potential flood damage or obstructs flood flows in the floodway (see M.S. §
462.357(1)(e), as it may be amended from time to time).
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in
safe condition when said structure is declared unsafe by the Building
Inspector.
   (D)   No nonconforming building, structure, or use shall be moved to another
lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this chapter adoption unless such
movement shall bring the nonconformance into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
      (1)   Public improvement project exception. When a condition of private
property is rendered nonconforming by the action and/or project of a municipal,
county, or state agency, such that as a part of said project, the agency
acquires land or property rights affecting the use or conformity of any
previously approved condition, the Community Development Department may conduct
a site plan review of the resulting property. Where the property under review
is subject to a conditional use permit or Variance, or where the property would
otherwise require a variance as a result of the review, the city shall provide
written notice to abutting property owners no less than ten days prior to final
approval. Upon such review, the Community Development Department may issue an
approval for the affected private improvements or the relocation of private
improvements to another part of the subject property, or another abutting
parcel under the control of the affected property owner, without requiring
review as a variance, conditional use permit, or other zoning review and
approval of either the Board of Adjustment and Appeals or the City Council. In
such cases, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   The Community Development Department finds that no reasonable
alternative exists to accommodate the continuation of the use on the property
without the use of this exception clause.
         (b)   If private improvements are relocated to an abutting parcel, the
owner shall execute and record an easement between the two parcels authorizing
the use. In this case, the prohibition against an accessory use on a parcel
without a principal use is specifically waived for this purpose.
         (c)   In cases other than those affected by the public improvement and
approved under this section, the relocated private improvements, whether
relocated to the same parcel or an abutting parcel, shall be constructed
according to all applicable zoning regulations.
         (d)   The affected private improvements or relocated private
improvements shall be considered conforming as of the date of the relocation or
acquisition of land or property rights. Said private improvements shall be
subject to nonconformity regulations as any other conforming condition if
subsequent alterations to the zoning regulations affect such improvements.
         (e)   The Community Development Department shall cause a description
of the site plan approval to be recorded against the applicable property or
properties, certifying the approval of the condition in question.
   (E)   A lawful nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the nonconformity of use. Once a nonconforming structure or
parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
   (F)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not physically extend or
intensify the nonconforming use.
   (G)   Normal maintenance, necessary non-structural repairs, and incidental
alteration of a lawful nonconforming sign includes repair or maintenance of
existing lettering done without changing the form or design of the lawful
nonconforming sign.
   (H)   Alterations may be made to a building containing or related to a
lawful nonconforming residential unit when said alteration will improve the
livability thereof, provided the alteration will not increase the number of
dwelling units. In the B-4 zone, alterations or expansion may be made to a
building containing or related to a lawful nonconforming residential unit when
said alteration or expansion will improve the livability thereof, provided the
alteration or expansion will not increase the number of dwelling units and
provided that such alteration or expansion shall not constitute more than 50%
of estimated market value. Said value shall be determined by City or County
Assessor. All adjoining property owners and the Monticello EDA shall be
provided notice of plans to expand nonconforming residential structure.
Expansion may occur only after completion of a 30-day notice period.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
§ 153.107 DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after discontinuance of
the use for a period of one year or more.
   (B)   Efforts to renovate or repair the use as allowed in §
153.107 are not considered discontinuance, provided all appropriate permits
and/or development approvals are obtained, and provided the renovation or
repair is completed within one year from commencement of repair or renovation,
and the use is re-established within one month from the time the renovation or
repairs are completed. Failure to complete the repairs or renovation within one
year or to reestablish the use within one month following repairs or renovation
shall constitute discontinuance, and a nonconforming use shall not be re-
established.
§ 153.108 CHANGE IN USE
   When any lawful nonconforming use of any structure or land in any district
has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to any
nonconforming use.
§ 153.109 BUILDING PERMITS AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.
   Any proposed structure which will, due to an ordinance amendment, become
nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior
to the effective date of a new ordinance taking effect, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans provided construction is started within 60
days of the effective date of the applicable ordinance, is not abandoned for a
period of more than 120 days, and continues to completion within two years.
Such structure and use shall thereafter be a legally nonconforming structure
and use.
§ 153.110 EXISTING NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Required merger of common ownership lots.
      (1)   Except as may otherwise be provided for in this chapter, when a
group of two or more contiguous lots or parcels of land are owned or controlled
by the same person, the following shall apply:
         (a)   If all lots are conforming to lot width, area and frontage
requirements, all lots may remain separate parcels;
         (b)   If one or more of the contiguous lots or parcels of land do not
conform to either lot width, area, or frontage requirements, than:
            1.   Such nonconforming lots shall not be sold or developed as a
separate parcel of land; and
            2.   Such nonconforming lots shall be combined with adjacent lots
or parcels under the same ownership or control so that the combination of lots
or parcels will equal one or more lots each meeting the full lot requirements
of this chapter or will lessen the existing nonconformity.
      (2)   The combination of lots shall be in accordance with the City Code.
   (B)   Vacant or redeveloped lots. With the exclusion of parcels within the
Floodplain Overlay District established in §
153.046(C), legal, nonconforming, vacant lots of record may be developed for
single-family detached dwellings upon approval of a building permit under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Legally established. The lot in question was legally established in
accordance with requirements of this code existing at the time of its creation
and is a separate, distinct tax parcel.
      (2)   Allowed use. Single-family residential dwellings are an allowed use
within the base zoning district.
      (3)   Minimum lot size.
         (a)   Sewered lots. A legal nonconforming lot having direct access to
municipal sewer, as determined by the Community Development Department, shall
be considered buildable provided measurements for lot area and lot width either
meet minimum requirements or are within 66% of the requirement of the base
zoning district.
         (b)   Unsewered lots. A legal nonconforming lot not having access to
municipal sewer shall be considered unbuildable.
      (4)   Access. The lot in question has frontage on and will directly
access an improved public street.
      (5)   Health concerns. Public health concerns (potable water and sanitary
sewer) can be adequately addressed.
      (6)   Setback and yard requirements. The setback and yard requirements of
the base zoning district can be achieved.
      (7)   Shoreland requirements. If the parcel is located within the
Shoreland Overlay District, development of the lot shall not result in more
than 25% of the lot being covered with impervious surfaces.
   (C)   Developed lots. An existing conforming use on a lot of substandard
size and/or width may be expanded or enlarged if such expansion or enlargement
meets all other provisions of this chapter.
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.120 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes procedures through which the city seeks to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and obtain corrections
for chapter violations. It also sets forth the remedies and penalties that
apply to violations of this chapter. The provisions of this subchapter are
intended to encourage the voluntary correction of violations whenever possible.
§ 153.121 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   In general. Compliance with all the procedures, standards, and other
provisions of this chapter shall be required by all persons owning, developing,
managing, using, or occupying land or structures in the city.
   (B)   Approvals required. All persons shall obtain all necessary building
permits and/or development approvals required by this chapter prior to
development.
§ 153.122 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Failure to comply with this chapter or term or any condition of
approval constitutes a violation. Any failure to comply with a standard,
requirement, prohibition, or limitation imposed by this chapter, or the terms
or conditions of any permit or other development approval or authorization
granted in accordance with this chapter shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Examples of violations include but shall not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   Develop land without first obtaining all appropriate permits or
development approvals, and complying with all applicable terms and conditions.
      (2)   Occupy or use land or a structure without first obtaining all
appropriate permits or development approvals, and complying with all applicable
terms and conditions.
      (3)   Engage in any development or other activity of any nature in any
way inconsistent with a permit or development approval, or other form of
authorization granted for such activity by the city.
      (4)   Violate, by act or omission, any term, condition, or qualification
placed by the city upon a required permit, certificate or other form of
authorization granted by the city to allow the development or other activity
upon land.
      (5)   To alter, maintain, or use any building or structure or to use any
land in violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (6)   Install, create, erect, alter, or maintain any sign without first
obtaining the appropriate permits or development approvals, and complying with
their terms and conditions.
      (7)   Create, expand, replace, or change any nonconformity, except in
accordance with this chapter.
      (8)   Reduce or diminish the requirements of use, development, or
dimensional standards below the minimum required by this chapter.
      (9)   Through any act or omission, fail to comply with any other
provisions, procedures, or standards, as required by this chapter.
      (10)   To continue any of the above-stated violations.
   (B)   Development shall adhere to approved plans. Permits or development
approvals issued by a decision-making body authorize only the use, density or
intensity, location, design, and/or development set forth on the plans reviewed
in issuing such permits or development approvals. Development that differs from
that which was approved by a decision-making body in a permit or development
approval is a violation of this chapter.
§ 153.123 RESPONSIBLE PERSONS.
   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any land or structure, or an architect,
engineer, builder, contractor, agent, or any other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains a situation that constitutes a
violation of this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and subject
to the remedies and penalties set forth in this chapter.
§ 153.124 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Responsibility for enforcement. The Community Development Department
shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   General inspections.
      (1)   Any member of the Community Development Department may enter upon
land or inspect any structure to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter provided permission has been granted by one of the following:
         (a)   An owner of the property in question;
         (b)   A licensee of the business being inspected;
         (c)   A resident of a dwelling on the property being inspected; or
         (d)   Any other person in control of the premises.
      (2)    If the owner, licensee, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the
Community Development Department may petition a court of competent jurisdiction
for a search warrant to authorize entrance to the property. Such a warrant
shall only be used to determine whether the provisions of this chapter or
related state statute are being complied with and to enforce this chapter or
related state statute. No unrelated criminal charges shall be made as a result
of the warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there is probable cause to
issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable
cause does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular
property.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority
of the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where
there is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (C)   Complaints regarding violations. Any person may notify the Community
Development Department of a suspected violation of this chapter. In registering
a complaint, the complaining party shall state fully the cause and/or basis of
the alleged violation. The identity of individuals registering complaints shall
remain confidential as required by M.S. § 13.44, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (D)   Investigation of complaints. Upon learning there is a potential
violation of this chapter, a member of the Community Development Department may
conduct a general inspection to determine whether a violation of this chapter
exists.
   (E)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   On finding that a violation of this chapter exists, the Community
Development Department shall provide written notification of the violation to
the owner of the property on which the violation exists and the person causing
or maintaining the violation. The notice of violation shall:
         (a)   Describe the location and nature of the violation;
         (b)   State the actions necessary to abate the violation;
         (c)   Order that the violation be corrected within a specified
reasonable time period not to exceed 30 days after the notice of violation is
sent;
         (d)   State what course of action is intended if the violation is not
corrected with the specified time limit; and advise the alleged violator(s) of
their right to appeal the notice of violation to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals in accordance with §
153.028(H).
      (2)   On receiving a written request for extension of the time limit for
correction specified in the notice of violation, the Community Development
Department may, for good cause shown, grant a single extension of the time for
up to 30 days.
      (3)   If a third violation occurs within a 12-month period, the Community
Development Department is not required to send a notice before proceeding with
an enforcement action as contemplated by this chapter.
      (4)   If the owner of the property cannot be located or determined, the
Community Development Department shall post a copy of the notice of violation
on the building, structure, sign, or site that is the subject of the violation.
In such a case, the time limit for correction of the violation shall be deemed
to begin five days after the notice is posted.
   (F)   Application of penalties.
      (1)   On determining that the violator has failed to correct the
violation by the time limit set forth in the notice of violation, or any
granted extension thereof, or has failed to timely appeal the notice of
violation, the Community Development Department shall take appropriate action,
as provided in §
153.999, to correct and abate the violation and to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
      (2)   Each day a violation continues is a separate offense.
   (G)   Emergency enforcement without notice. On determining that delay in
correcting the violation would pose a danger to the public health, safety, or
welfare, the Community Development Department may seek immediate enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the remedies or penalties
listed in §
153.999.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023; Ord. 833, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If the responsible person to whom the notice of violation was directed
fails to comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter, that person is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $300 for each offense or imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both.
   (B)    The city may also enforce any provision of this chapter by mandamus,
injunction, or any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent
jurisdiction. No related city permit, license or other approval will be issued
to a person or property that has an outstanding notice of violation that is not
being appealed, or is not subject to the provisions of a stipulation, order or
settlement regarding that violation.
   (C)   A person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement or document
in connection with an application or procedure required by this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)    A person who violates, fails to comply with or assists, directs or
permits the violation of a performance standard required by this chapter must
reimburse the city or its agent for the actual costs of the tests, measurements
or other procedures necessary to demonstrate that violation.
(Ord. 799, passed 2-27-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
420      1-10-2005   Cable system franchise agreement with Charter
                     Communications for 15 years
455      3-12-2007   Electric utility franchise agreement with Northern States
                     Power, d/b/a XCEL Energy
456      3-12-2007   Electric utility franchise agreement with Northern States
                     Power, d/b/a XCEL Energy
498      6-8-2009    Electric utility franchise agreement with Wright- Hennepin
                     Cooperative Electric Association
499      6-8-2009    Electric utility franchise agreement with Wright- Hennepin
                     Cooperative Electric Association
500      6-8-2009    Natural gas franchise agreement with CenterPoint Energy
                     Minnesota Gas
514      5-10-2010   Cable system franchise agreement with Fibernet Monticello
                     for a period of 15 years
537      9-26-2011   Cable system franchise agreement with Bridgewater
                     Telephone, d/b/a TDS Telecom to expire on 3-29-2020
712      2-11-2019   Cable system franchise agreement with CC VIII Operating
                     LLC l/k/a Charter Communications for 15 years
737      2-24-2020   Cable system franchise to Bridge Water Telephone Company
                     D/B/A TDS Telecom for 15 years
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                      Code Section
Ch. 12                          35.09
12.25                           33.01,
                                33.04
12.37                           33.06
Ch. 13                          31.41
13.37                           153.072
13.44                           153.124
14.57 through 14.62             110.101
14.69                           110.101
15.73, subd. 3                  94.03
15.99                           153.028
15.99, subd. 3(a)               153.027
16B.70                          150.04
18G.13                          92.50
65B.48, subd. 5                 71.03
84.787, subd. 7                 71.02
84.81 et seq.                   71.01
84.87, subd. l                  71.03
84.90                           71.02
84.92                           71.03
84.92, subd. 8                  71.02
84.92, subd. 8 through 10       71.02
84.92, subd. 10                 71.03
84.922                          71.03
84.928, subd. 1                 71.03
93.44 through 93.51             153.012,
                                153.046
97B.021                         112.08
97B.045                         112.08
Ch. 103B                        53.01,
                                153.069
Ch. 103F                        153.046
103F.301 et seq.                153.046
Ch. 103G                        153.046
103G.005, subd. 15              153.012
103G.005, subd. 15a             153.012
103G.201                        153.012
103G.221 et seq.                153.046
103G.245                        153.046
103G.311, subd. 2               153.046
103G.311, subd. 6               153.046
103G.311, subd. 7               153.046
Ch. 115                         52.002
115.01, subd. 5                 52.002
115.03, subd. 5c                153.069
115.07                          52.002
115.061                         153.069
Ch. 116                         52.002
116D.04 through 116D.045        153.027
120A.05                         153.012
120A.24                         153.012
Ch. 134                         32.025
Ch. 147                         117.04
Ch. 148                         117.04
Ch. 150A                        117.04
151.72                          112.60
152.01 through 152.027          112.08
152.02                          35.26
152.0263, subd. 5               153.091
152.22 through 152.37           112.60
157.15, subd. 9                 112.26
157.15, subd. 12                116.01
157.16, subd. 1                 116.01
161.465                         34.05
                                70.35,
Ch. 168                         70.37,
                                71.01
                                70.01,
                                70.99,
Ch. 169                         71.01,
                                71.06,
                                71.99
169.011, subd. 26               71.03
169.011, subd. 27               71.03
169.011, subd. 42               70.02
169.011, subd. 44               70.02
169.011, subd. 46               71.03
169.011, subd. 52               70.02
169.045, subd. 7                71.06
169.212                         71.03
169.223                         71.03
169.225                         71.03
169.522                         71.06
169.999                         10.98
169A.20                         71.04
Ch. 171                         70.36,
                                70.37
Ch. 176                         30.12
176.011, subd. 9, clause 6      30.12
176.182                         116.05
Ch. 182                         34.02
205.07                          30.13
211B.035                        153.064
216B.02                         94.03
216B.02, subd. 4                94.03
216B.02, subd. 6                94.03
Ch. 216D                        94.05,
                                94.15
                                94.10,
216D.01 through 216D.09         94.15,
                                94.24
216D.04, subd. 3                94.03
Ch. 216E                        153.071
237.16                          94.01
                                94.01,
237.162                         94.03,
                                94.17
237.162, subd. 4                94.03
                                94.01,
237.163                         94.03,
                                94.17
237.163, subd. 2(b)             94.02
237.163, subd. 5                94.03
237.163, subd. 6                94.29
237.19                          114.01
237.79                          94.01
237.81                          94.01
Ch. 238                         94.03,
                                115.04
238.08                          115.14
238.08, subd. 1(b)              115.14
238.081                         115.04,
                                115.14
238.083                         115.11
238.084                         115.04
238.086                         94.01
239.751                         153.064
Ch. 245G                        153.012
Ch. 270A                        37.06
Ch. 270C                        37.03
270C.72, subd. 4                112.06
275.60                          37.08
275.61                          37.08
278.01 – 278.13               117.09
Ch. 289A                        37.03
                                37.03,
Ch. 297A                        37.04,
                                37.06
297A.665                        37.05
297A.72                         37.05
297A.99                         37.03
297A.99, subd. 3, para. (f)     37.07
297A.99, subd. 12               37.07
Ch. 299F                        35.08
Ch. 302A                        94.06
303.06                          111.28
307.08                          153.012
Ch. 308A                        94.03
309.53                          131.39
325J.04 subd. 2                 111.35
326B.101 through 326B.194       150.02
326B.121                        150.02,
                                150.04
326B.133                        150.03
326B.148                        150.04
327.31                          153.012
327.31 through 327.35           153.091
333.01                          111.28
333.02                          117.05
                                110.001,
                                110.025,
Ch. 340A                        110.052,
                                110.070,
                                110.090,
                                116.07
340A.301                        153.091
340A.401                        112.08
340A.403, subd. 3               110.008
340A.408                        110.028
                                110.003,
340A.409                        110.027,
                                110.071,
                                110.093
340A.414                        110.074
340A.503                        112.08
                                110.009,
340A.504                        110.033,
                                110.074
                                96.25,
Ch. 342                         118.01,
                                118.02,
                                153.091
342.01                          118.02,
                                153.012
342.01, subd. 50                153.012
342.13(c)                       153.091
342.17                          153.012
342.22                          118.04,
                                153.091
344.02, subd. 1(a) through 1(d) 153.046
346.37                          90.020
Ch. 347                         90.024
347.50 through 347.65           90.024
                                131.01,
Ch. 349                         131.02,
                                131.15,
                                131.34
349.11 through 349.191          131.99
349.11 through 349.23           131.07,
                                131.08
349.12                          131.04
349.166                         131.10
349.213                         131.02
                                111.30,
364.03, subd. 2                 117.08,
                                117.12
364.03, subd. 3                 111.30,
                                117.08
364.06                          31.42
364.09                          31.42
366.011                         34.04
366.012                         34.04
412.925                         153.060
415.01                          34.04
                                92.20,
Ch. 429                         92.50,
                                94.22,
                                152.101
                                35.33,
429.101                         91.06,
                                92.50
Ch. 443                         54.07
444.075                         51.01
444.075 subd. 3                 51.12
Ch. 453                         94.03
Ch. 453A                        94.03
                                32.002,
                                32.010,
Ch. 462                         53.01,
                                94.22,
                                153.046,
                                153.069
462.351 through 462.363         153.002
462.356                         152.026
462.357                         153.091
462.357, subd. 1(e)             153.106
462.357, subd. 6, clause 2      153.028
462.358                         152.002
462.358, subd. 2b               152.080
462.3593                        153.092
Ch. 463                         35.33
Ch. 466                         115.10
Ch. 469                         32.100
Ch. 475                         37.08
475.58                          37.08
475.61                          37.08
Ch. 505                         152.002,
                                153.046
505.02, subd. 1                 153.046
515.01 through 515.29           153.012
609.321                         112.08
609.33                          112.08
609.66 through 609.67           112.08
609.72                          112.08
609.75 through 609.763          131.07,
                                131.99
609.755 through 609.76          112.08
617.241                         153.046,
                                153.092
617.242                         153.046
617.242, subd. 7                153.046
624.712 through 624.716         112.08
624.719                         112.08
624.731 through 624.732         112.08
626.862                         10.20
631.48                          10.99
658.45, subd. 5                 71.03
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              30.02
1-5-3              30.03
1-5-4              30.04
1-5-5              30.05
1-5-6              30.06
1-5-7              30.07
1-5-8              30.08
1-5-9              30.09
1-5-10             30.10
1-5-11             30.11
1-5-12             30.12
1-5-13             30.13
1-5-14             30.14
1-6-1              31.01
1-6-2              31.02
1-6-3              31.03
1-6-4              31.04
1-6-5              31.05
1-7-1              31.20
1-7-2              31.21
1-7-3              31.22
1-7-4              31.23
1-7-5              31.24
1-7-6              31.25
1-7-7              31.26
1-7-8              31.27
2-1-1              32.001
2-1-2              32.002
2-1-3              32.003
2-1-4              32.004
2-1-5              32.005
2-1-6              32.006
2-1-7              32.007
2-1-8              32.008
2-1-9              32.009
2-1-10             32.010
2-1-11             32.011
2-1-12             32.012
2-3-1              32.100
2-5-1              32.025
2-5-2              32.026
2-5-3              32.027
2-5-4              32.028
2-5-5              32.029
2-5-10             32.030
2-6-1              32.045
2-6-2              32.046
2-6-3              32.047
2-6-4              32.048
2-6-5              32.049
2-6-6              32.050
2-6-7              32.051
2-6-8              32.052
2-6-9              32.053
2-6-10             32.054
2-9-1              114.01
2-9-2              114.02
2-9-3              114.03
2-9-4              114.04
2-10-1             32.075
2-10-2             32.076
2-10-3             32.077
2-10-4             32.078
2-10-5             32.079
2-10-6             32.080
2-10-7             32.081
2-10-8             32.082
2-10-9             32.083
2-10-10            32.084
2-10-11            32.085
3-1-1              110.001
3-1-2              110.002
3-1-3              110.003
3-1-4              110.004
3-1-5              110.005
3-1-6              110.006
3-1-7              110.007
3-1-8              110.008
3-1-9              110.009
3-1-10             110.010
3-1-11             110.011
3-1-12             110.012
3-1-13             110.013
3-2-1              110.025
3-2-2              110.026
3-2-3              110.027
3-2-4              110.028
3-2-5              110.029
3-2-6              110.030
3-2-7              110.031
3-2-8              110.032
3-2-9              110.033
3-2-10             110.034
3-2-11             110.035
3-3-5              110.052
3-3-6              110.053
3-3-7              110.054,
                   110.999
3-4-1              110.070
3-4-2              110.071
3-4-3              110.072
3-4-4              110.073
3-4-5              110.074
3-4-6              110.075
3-6-1              150.35
3-6-2              150.36
3-8-1              131.30
3-8-2              131.31
3-8-3              131.32
3-8-4              131.33
3-8-5              131.34
3-8-6              131.35
3-8-7              131.36
3-8-8              131.37
3-8-9              131.38
3-8-10             131.39
3-8-11             131.40
3-8-12             131.41
3-8-13             131.42
3-8-14             131.43
3-8-15             131.99
3-9-1              113.01
3-9-2              113.02
3-9-3              113.03
3-9-4              113.04
3-9-5              113.05
3-9-6              113.06
3-9-7              113.07
3-9-8              113.08
3-9-9              113.09
3-9-10             113.10
3-11-1             110.090
3-11-2             110.091
3-11-3             110.092
3-11-4             110.093
3-11-5             110.094
3-11-6             110.095
3-11-7             110.096
3-11-8             110.097
3-11-9             110.098
3-11-10            110.099
3-11-11            110.100
3-11-12            110.101
3-11-13            110.999
3-12-1             131.01
3-12-2             131.02
3-12-3             131.03
3-12-4             131.04
3-12-5             131.05
3-12-6             131.06
3-12-7             131.07
3-12-8             131.08
3-12-9             131.09
3-12-10            131.10
3-12-11            131.11
3-12-12            131.12
3-12-13            131.13
3-12-14            131.14
3-12-15            131.15
3-12-16            131.16
3-12-17            131.99
3-13-1             112.40,
                   112.99
3-15-1             111.25
3-15-2             111.26
3-15-3             111.27
3-15-4             111.28
3-15-5             111.29
3-15-6             111.30
3-15-7             111.31
3-15-8             111.32
3-15-9             111.33
3-15-10            111.34
3-15-11            111.35
3-15-12            111.36
3-15-13            111.37
3-15-14            111.38
3-15-15            111.39
3-15-16            111.40
3-15-17            111.41
3-15-18            111.42
3-15-19            111.43
3-16-1             112.01
3-16-2             112.02
3-16-3             112.03
3-16-4             112.04
3-16-5             112.05
3-16-6             112.06
3-16-7             112.07
3-16-8             112.08
3-16-9             112.09
3-16-10            112.10
3-16-11            112.11
3-17-1             96.01
3-17-2             96.02
3-17-3             96.03
3-17-4             96.04
3-17-5             96.05
3-17-6             96.06
3-17-7             96.07
3-17-8             96.08
3-17-9             96.09
3-19-1             96.20
3-19-2             96.21
3-19-3             96.22
3-19-4             96.23
3-19-5             96.24
3-20-1             112.25
3-20-2             112.26
3-20-3             112.27
3-20-4             112.28
3-20-5             112.29
4-1-1              150.01
4-1-2              150.02
4-1-3              150.03
4-1-4              150.04
4-1-6              150.99
4-1-8              150.05
4-1-9              150.06
4-3-1              150.50
4-3-2              150.51
4-3-3              150.52
4-4-1              150.20
4-4-2              150.21
4-4-3              150.22
4-5-1              150.07
4-5-2              150.07
5-1-1              95.01
5-1-2              95.02
5-1-3              95.03
5-1-9              95.99
5-2-1              95.15
5-2-2              95.16
5-4-1              95.30
5-4-2              95.31
5-4-3              95.32
5-4-4              95.33
5-4-5              95.34
5-4-6              95.35
5-4-7              95.36
5-4-8              95.99
6-1-1              130.01
6-1-2              130.02
6-1-3              130.03
6-1-4              130.04
6-1-5              130.05
6-1-7              130.06
6-1-8              130.07
6-1-10             130.09,
                   130.99
6-2-1              90.001
6-2-2              90.002
6-2-3              90.003
6-2-5              90.004
6-2-6              90.005
6-2-7              90.006
6-2-8              90.007
6-2-11             90.009
6-2-12             90.010
6-2-13             90.011
6-2-14             90.012
6-2-15             90.013
6-2-16             90.014
6-2-17             90.016
6-2-18             90.017
6-2-19             90.018
6-2-20             90.019
6-2-21             90.020
6-2-22             90.021
6-2-23             90.022
6-2-24             90.023
6-2-25             90.024,
                   90.999
6-2-26             90.025,
                   90.999
6-3-1              90.040
6-3-2              90.041
6-3-3              90.042
6-3-4              90.043
6-3-5              90.044
6-3-6              90.045
6-3-7              90.046
6-3-8              90.047
6-3-9              90.048
6-3-10             90.049
6-6-1              91.20
6-6-2              91.21
6-6-3              91.22
6-6-4              91.23
6-8-1              90.060
6-8-2              90.061
6-8-3              90.062
6-8-4              90.063
6-8-5              90.064
6-8-6              90.065
6-8-7              90.066
6-8-8              90.067
7-1-1              91.01
7-1-2              91.02
7-1-3              91.03
7-1-4              91.04
7-1-5              91.05
7-1-6              91.06
7-1-7              91.99
7-2-1              50.01
7-2-2              50.02
7-2-3              50.03
7-2-4              50.04
7-2-5              50.05
7-2-6              50.06
7-2-7              50.07
7-2-8              50.08
7-2-9              50.09
7-2-10             50.11
7-2-11             50.12
7-2-12             50.13
7-2-13             50.14
7-2-14             50.15
7-2-15             50.16
7-2-16             50.17
7-2-17             50.18,
                   50.99
7-2-18             50.19
7-2-19             50.20
7-2-20             50.21
7-2-21             50.99
7-3-1              50.35
7-3-3              50.37
7-3-4              50.38
7-4-1              112.55
7-5-1              91.35
7-6-1              54.01
7-6-4              54.02
7-6-5              54.03
7-6-6              54.04
7-6-7              54.05
7-6-8              54.06
7-6-9              54.07
7-6-10             54.09,
                   54.99
7-8-1              90.080
7-8-2              90.081
7-8-3              90.082
7-8-4              90.999
7-8-5              90.083
7-9-1              92.01
7-9-2              92.02
7-9-3              92.03
7-9-4              92.04
7-9-5              92.05
7-9-6              92.99
7-10-1             53.01
7-10-2             53.02
7-10-3             53.03
7-10-4             53.04
7-10-6             53.05
7-10-7             53.06
7-10-8             53.07
7-10-9             53.08
7-10-10            53.09
7-10-11            53.10
7-10-12            53.11,
                   111.13
7-10-13            53.12
7-10-14            53.13
7-10-15            53.14
7-10-16            53.15
7-10-17            53.16
7-10-18            53.17
7-10-19            53.18
7-10-20            53.19
7-10-21            53.20
7-10-22            53.21
8-1-1              92.20
8-1-2              92.21
8-1-3              92.22
8-1-4              92.23
8-1-5              92.24
8-1-6              92.25
8-1-7              92.26
8-1-8              92.27
8-1-9              92.28
8-1-10             92.29
8-1-11             92.30
8-2-1              151.01
8-2-2              151.02
8-2-3              151.03
8-2-4              151.04
8-2-5              151.05
8-2-6              151.06
8-2-7              151.07
8-2-8              151.08
8-2-9              151.09
8-2-10             151.10
8-2-11             151.11
8-2-12             151.12
8-2-13             151.13
8-2-14             151.14
8-3-1              92.45
8-3-2              92.46
8-3-3              92.47
8-3-4              92.48
8-3-5              92.49
8-3-6              92.50
8-3-7              92.51
8-5-1              70.20
8-5-2              70.21
8-5-3              70.22
8-5-4              70.23
8-5-5              70.24
8-6-1              93.01
8-6-2              93.02
8-6-3              93.03
8-6-4              93.04
8-6-5              93.05
8-6-6              93.06
8-6-7              93.07
8-6-8              93.08
8-6-10             93.09
8-10-1             94.45
8-10-2             94.46
8-10-3             94.47
8-10-4             94.99
8-11-1             94.01
8-11-2             94.02
8-11-3             94.03
8-11-4             94.04
8-11-5             94.05
8-11-6             94.06
8-11-7             94.07
8-11-8             94.08
8-11-9             94.09
8-11-10            94.10
8-11-11            94.11
8-11-12            94.12
8-11-13            94.13
8-11-14            94.14
8-11-15            94.15
8-11-16            94.16
8-11-17            94.17
8-11-18            94.18
8-11-19            94.19
8-11-20            94.20
8-11-21            94.21
8-11-22            94.22
8-11-23            94.23
8-11-24            94.24
8-11-25            94.25
8-11-26            94.26
8-11-27            94.27
8-11-28            94.28
8-11-29            94.29
8-11-30            94.30
9-1-1              70.01,
                   70.99
9-1-2              70.02
9-1-3              70.03
9-1-4              70.04
9-1-5              70.05,
                   70.99
9-1-6              70.06
9-1-7              70.07,
                   70.99
9-1-8              70.08
9-1-9              70.09
9-2-1              70.35
9-2-2              70.36
9-2-3              70.37
9-2-4              70.99
9-3-1              71.01
9-3-2              71.02
9-3-3              71.03
9-3-4              71.04
9-3-5              71.05
9-3-6              71.06
9-3-7              71.08
9-3-8              71.99
14-1-1             52.001
14-1-2             52.002
14-2-1             52.015
14-2-2             52.016
14-2-3             52.017
14-2-4             52.018
14-2-5             52.019
14-2-6             52.020
14-2-7             52.021
14-3-1             52.035
14-3-2             52.036
14-3-3             52.037
14-3-4             52.038
14-4-1             52.050
14-4-2             52.051
14-4-3             52.052
14-4-4             52.053
14-4-6             52.054
14-4-7             52.055
14-5-1             52.070
14-5-2             52.071
14-5-3             52.072
14-5-4             52.073
14-5-5             52.074
14-5-6             52.075
14-6-1             52.999
14-6-2             52.999
14-6-4             52.999
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         34.01 –
                     34.06
713      - -         112.28
4        11-24-1975  50.03
17       9-9-1976    110.007
19       9-13-1976   131.32
22       11-11-1976  130.08,
                     130.99
26       12-27-1976  70.06
48       4-10-1977   70.24
29       5-9-1977    92.46
32       7-11-1977   50.01
42       10-10-1977  70.07
65       3-12-1979   70.02
70       7-9-1979    150.35
72       1-30-1980   31.04
81       7-14-1980   93.08
94       3-9-1981    110.031
101      6-8-1981    50.13
                     50.21,
                     110.004,
                     110.027,
107      11-23-1981  110.028,
                     110.072,
                     113.05,
                     131.32,
                     150.35
108      11-23-1981  151.14
116      6-28-1982   110.072
126      9-13-1983   50.01
128      11-4-1983   110.999
                     52.002,
132      1-23-1984   52.016,
                     52.999
139      7-23-1984   50.09
143      10-22-1984  110.009,
                     110.052
146      4-8-1985    70.05
153      4-13-1987   92.30
154      4-13-1987   70.22
155      4-13-1987   70.08
156      6-22-1987   70.22
162      6-27-1988   110.027
164      10-11-1988  70.07,
                     70.99
165      10-11-1988  130.99
168      1-23-1989   30.12
169      3-13-1989   90.025
170      3-13-1989   90.049
177      6-26-1989   110.052
182      10-23-1989  54.09,
                     54.99
191      5-1-1990    110.027
193      5-14-1990   70.02
195      8-27-1990   54.07
203      2-11-1991   32.054
204      2-11-1991   90.083
214      10-28-1991  50.37,
                     54.07
219      1-27-1992   112.40,
                     112.99
252      6-13-1994   95.36
254      8-8-1994    70.22
263      11-28-1994  94.99
267      3-27-1995   92.49
271      6-12-1995   50.16
274      8-14-1995   52.999
275      8-14-1995   110.032
277      3-25-1996   90.025
278      5-13-1996   151.11
287      3-24-1997   92.49
288      3-24-1997   50.01
293      5-27-1997   150.05
316      8-10-1998   30.13
317      9-28-1998   54.07
319      10-26-1998  110.031,
                     110.032
324      4-26-1999   30.13
327      6-28-1999   30.14
328      7-12-1999   30.14
332      9-13-1999   110.072,
                     110.075
336      11-22-1999  32.012
357      11-27-2000  111.31
                     52.999,
                     54.09,
                     54.99,
                     70.05,
                     70.07,
                     70.99,
358      1-8-2001    90.025,
                     90.999,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     110.999,
                     130.99,
                     131.99,
                     150.99
362      7-23-2001   50.99
367      10-22-2001  93.09
                     110.093,
369      1-28-2002   110.097,
                     110.099,
                     110.100
373      4-22-2002   95.32,
                     95.36
378      5-28-2002   92.99
379      6-10-2002   50.18
                     95.01,
391      6-9-2003    95.02,
                     150.02-
                     150.04
                     110.004,
                     110.005,
                     110.008,
                     110.009,
                     110.028,
                     110.029,
                     110.031,
394      7-14-2003   110.032,
                     110.053,
                     110.072,
                     110.073,
                     110.094,
                     110.095,
                     110.099,
                     110.100
420      1-10-2005   TSO I
430      9-26-2005   31.05
449      8-28-2006   70.02
                     50.05,
458      10-23-2006  50.06,
                     50.21
453      1-22-2007   110.031
455      3-12-2007   TSO I
456      3-12-2007   TSO I
                     113.01,
                     113.02,
461      6-25-2007   113.04,
                     113.06,
                     113.08,
                     113.09
464      7-23-2007   112.11,
                     150.22
469A     12-10-2007  32.100
475      3-24-2008   150.07
480      4-14-2008   114.04
482      5-27-2008   30.11
483      5-27-2008   150.06
492      1-12-2009   92.30
492      1-26-2009   92.50
494      1-26-2009   90.025
495      1-26-2009   92.46,
                     92.50
496      3-23-2009   91.99
498      6-8-2009    TSO I
499      6-8-2009    TSO I
500      6-8-2009    TSO I
505      10-26-2009  96.09
507      1-11-2010   92.30
511      4-12-2010   90.024,
                     90.999
512      4-12-2010   110.008,
                     110.009
513      4-12-2010   110.032 –
                     110.034
514      5-10-2010   TSO I
519      8-23-2010   32.085
520      9-13-2010   54.07
337      1-10-2011   32.012
537      9-26-2011   TSO I
538      12-12-2011  50.01
                     111.26,
542      1-9-2012    111.31,
                     111.36-
                     111.38
                     151.01 –
                     151.06,
549      2-27-2012   151.08,
                     151.09,
                     151.11
551      2-27-2012   32.100
557      4-9-2012    90.049
                     110.006,
                     110.008,
575      3-11-2013   110.032,
                     110.073,
                     110.074,
                     110.099
                     110.008,
584      5-28-2013   110.032,
                     110.098
586      11-12-2013  31.05
593      3-10-2014   32.012
598      5-12-2014   32.065 –
                     32.067
602      10-13-2014  91.04,
                     91.06
                     53.01,
606      12-8-2014   53.07,
                     53.09,
                     53.13
607      1-26-2015   32.012
608      1-26-2015   31.04
611      2-9-2015    112.06,
                     112.07
615      4-27-2015   90.042
616      6-22-2015   30.01
624      9-28-2015   70.09
                     110.009,
                     110.013,
625      9-28-2015   110.033,
                     110.074,
                     110.099
                     117.01 –
632      2-8-2016    117.12,
                     117.99
634      4-11-2016   90.060 –
                     90.067
637      4-25-2016   32.077
638      4-25-2016   117.02
646      5-23-2016   96.20 –
                     96.24
647      6-13-2016   117.11
654      8-22-2016   114.04
611      2-13-2017   92.50
                     92.46,
661      2-13-2017   92.48,
                     92.50
                     32.045,
664      4-10-2017   32.046,
                     32.053,
                     32.054
665      5-8-2017    112.25 –
                     112.29
668      6-12-2017   110.052
685      11-27-2017  71.99
688      12-11-2017  54.07
689      12-11-2017  50.05
694      3-12-2018   54.08
704      12-10-2018  35.01
712      2-11-2019   TSO I
715      3-25-2019   32.077
                     51.01 –
718      4-8-2019    51.12,
                     51.99
                     32.045,
                     32.046,
731      11-12-2019  32.048,
                     32.050 –
                     32.052,
                     32.054
732      12-9-2019   36.01
737      2-24-2020   TSO Table I
738      2-24-2020   36.01,
                     111.25
740      4-27-2020   36.01
742      5-11-2020   95.01
7432     7-27-2020   50.22
744      7-27-2020   36.01
745      8-10-2020   130.09
745A     8-10-2020   130.09
746      8-10-2020   94.17
748      9-28-2020   70.02
762      8-23-2021   153.090,
                     153.091
763      9-13-2021   153.047
765      10-25-2021  153.047
766      12-13-2021  36.01
767      12-13-2021  153.047
768      1-24-2022   95.37
770      2-28-2022   153.028
771      2-28-2022   153.091
772      3-14-2022   152.027,
                     152.061
773      3-28-2022   95.36
776      4-25-2022   153.048
                     71.01 -
777      5-23-2022   71.09,
                     71.99
778      5-23-2022   36.01
779      7-11-2022   153.047
                     153.012,
780      7-25-2022   153.090,
                     153.091
781      7-25-2022   153.028
782      8-8-2022    32.077
784      8-22-2022   153.047
785      9-26-2022   50.37
786      9-26-2022   153.028
787      10-10-2022  36.01
788      12-12-2022  112.60
789      10-10-2022  90.023
790      10-10-2022  94.03,
                     94.55
                     153.012,
791      11-14-2022  153.070,
                     153.090,
                     153.091
792      11-14-2022  70.02
794      12-12-2022  36.01
                     153.012,
797      2-13-2023   153.090 -
                     153.092
798      2-27-2023   36.01
                     153.010,
                     153.012,
                     153.026 -
                     153.028,
                     153.041 -
                     153.048,
                     153.060,
                     153.062 -
799      2-27-2023   153.064,
                     153.066,
                     153.067,
                     153.069,
                     153.070,
                     153.090 -
                     153.093,
                     153.106,
                     153.124,
                     153.999
800      3-13-2023   153.047
802      - -         153.012
                     153.012,
804      8-14-2023   153.090,
                     153.091
805      8-14-2023   90.001,
                     90.025
806      8-14-2023   153.043
807      8-14-2023   153.047
809      8-28-2023   153.047
810      10-9-2023   112.60
811      10-9-2023   153.012
812      10-9-2023   153.060
813      10-23-2023  36.01
814      11-13-2023  70.02
815      11-13-2023  153.042
816      11-13-2023  153.047
817      11-27-2023  70.02
819      12-11-2023  36.01
821      2-26-2024   36.01
822      3-25-2024   153.047
823      4-8-2024    153.047
824      4-22-2024   153.027
825      5-13-2024   153.046
826      6-10-2024   36.01
827      6-24-2024   153.091
828      6-24-2024   153.091
829      6-24-2024   153.047
                     153.012,
830      7-22-2024   153.090,
                     153.091
831      8-26-2024   153.028
833      9-23-2024   153.067,
                     153.124
834      10-28-2024  153.047
                     96.25,
                     153.012,
835      11-25-2024  153.090,
                     153.091,
                     153.093
836      11-12-2024  32.077
837      11-25-2024  118.01 -
                     118.07
839      11-25-2024  37.01 -
                     37.09
840      12-9-2024   36.01
                    
 
 
