CITY CODE
of
MOORHEAD, MINNESOTA
1987
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-06, passed 5-27-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Moorhead, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2025-06, passed May 27, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-08
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND AND REENACT CHAPTER 16 OF TITLE I OF THE MOORHEAD
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO REGULATION OF FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Moorhead, as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 16 of Title 1 of the Moorhead Municipal Code is hereby
amended and reenacted to read as follows:
CHAPTER 16
REGULATION OF FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE
Sections:
1-16-1.      REGULATION OF NON-EXCLUSIVE FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE.
1-16-2.      SHORT TITLE.
1-16-3.      DEFINITIONS.
1-16-4.      ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE.
1-16-5.      PERMISSION TO USE AND OCCUPY.
1-16-6.      FRANCHISEE’S OBLIGATIONS.
1-16-7.      CITY’S OBLIGATIONS.
1-16-8.      COSTS TO BE PAID BY FRANCHISEE.
1-16-9.      CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS.
1-16-10.   DEFENSE AND INDEMNITY.
1-16-11.   LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.
1-16-12.   PERFORMANCE BOND.
1-16-13.   INSURANCE.
1-16-14.   TERM.
1-16-15.   TERMINATION.
1-16-16.   ASSIGNMENT.
1-16-17.   NOTICE.
1-16-18.    GENERAL PROVISIONS.
1-16-19.   APPROVAL.
1-16-20.   NON-DISCRIMINATION.
1-16-21.   HOME RULE CHARTER.
1-16-22.   RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
1-16-23.   SEVERABILITY.
_____________________________
 
1-16-1: REGULATION OF NON-EXCLUSIVE FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE:
Gateway Infrastructure, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, its
successors and assigns, is hereby granted a nonexclusive franchise to install,
maintain, operate, and control a fiber optic infrastructure network in the city
public ROW for the purpose of offering communications services, including
broadband internet access service and voice over internet protocol services,
but excluding multichannel video programming services that would be subject to
a video services franchise, to residents and businesses in the city.
Ubiquity, a Nebraska limited liability company, its successors and assigns, is
hereby granted a nonexclusive franchise to install, maintain, operate, and
control a fiber optic infrastructure network in the city public rowROW for the
purpose of offering communications services, including broadband internet
access service and voice over internet protocol services, but excluding
multichannel video programming services that would be subject to a video
services franchise, to residents and businesses in the city.
1-16-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter will be known and cited as the CITY OF MOORHEAD FIBER OPTIC
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE, hereinafter referred to as this “chapter.”
1-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may”
is permissive. Words not defined will be given their common and ordinary
meanings.
AGREEMENT: The non-exclusive public franchise agreement by and between the city
and franchisee dated       , 2025.
BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICE: Broadband internet access service as defined in 47
C.F.R. § 8.1(b).
CITY: The city of Moorhead, county of Clay, state of Minnesota.
CITY OF MOORHEAD RIGHT-OF-WAY DETAILS AND STANDARDS: As defined in the
agreement, as amended from time to time.
CUSTOMERS: Residents and businesses in the city.
FIBER OPTICS: a technology that transmits data, images, and voice over long
distances by using light pulses to travel through glass or plastic fibers.
Fiber optic cables have several advantages over copper cables, including higher
bandwidth and transmit speeds. Fiber optic networks are also more stable and
less likely to overload, making them faster for downloading and streaming.
FRANCHISE: permission granted by the city to franchisee to use and occupy the
city public rowROW for the limited purpose of performing the work.
FRANCHISEE: Gateway Infrastructure, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
its successors and assigns, and Ubiquity, a Nebraska limited liability company,
its successors and assigns.
NETWORK: a fiber optic infrastructure network of equipment and facilities.
NETWORK FACILITIES: aerial or underground fiber optic cables, lines, wires, or
strands; underground conduits, vaults, access manholes and handholes;
electronic equipment; power generators; batteries; pedestals; boxes; cabinets;
vaults; and other similar equipment and/or facilities.
PERSON: any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
trust, joint stock company, business trust, unincorporated association, joint
venture, governmental authority, or other entity of any nature whatsoever.
PUBLIC ROW: land owned by the city for park, open space, or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public and the use of which the city has
jurisdiction over, as more fully set forth in the agreement.
ROW: right of way.
SERVICES: Communications services, including broadband internet services and
voice over internet protocol services, but excluding multichannel video
programming services that would be subject to a video services franchise.
WORK: The franchisee constructing, installing, repairing, maintaining,
operating, and if necessary removing the network and the related network
facilities in the city public rowROW.
1-16-4: ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: A separate franchise agreement may
become effective from and after passage of this chapter, its acceptance by
franchisee, and its publication as required by law. The city, by council
resolution, may revoke the agreement if franchisee does not file a written
acceptance with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after publication.
   B.   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this chapter will be
paid by the city and the city will be reimbursed by franchisee.
   C.   Dispute Resolution: If either party asserts that the other party is in
default in the performance of any obligation of an franchise agreement or in
violation of the chapter, the complaining party shall notify the other party of
the default and the desired remedy. The notification must be written.
Representatives of the parties must promptly meet and attempt in good faith to
negotiate a resolution of the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days of the written notice, the parties may jointly select a
mediator to facilitate further discussion. The parties will equally share the
fees and expenses of this mediator. If a mediator is not used or if the parties
are unable to resolve the dispute within thirty (30) days after first meeting
with the selected mediator, either party may commence an action in district
court to interpret and enforce this franchise or for such other relief as may
be permitted by law or equity for breach of contract, or either party may take
any other action permitted by law.
1-16-5: PERMISSION TO USE AND OCCUPY:
   A.   Permission to Use and Occupy City Public ROW: The city grants
franchisee permission to use and occupy the city public rowROW as set forth in
the agreement and on file with the city and as expanded from time to time by
this city to (the “Franchise”) for the limited purpose of constructing,
installing, repairing, maintaining, operating, and if necessary removing the
network and the related network facilities (the “work”), as set forth in the
agreement. The franchise does not authorize franchisee to use any property
other than the city public rowROW. Franchisee’s use of any city owned property,
including any and all above ground infrastructure, inter alia, consisting of
poles and conduits, will be governed under a separate agreement regarding that
use and the city retains the exclusive right to deny the use of the city’s
above ground infrastructure for any reason. In accordance with the city’s
standards for work within city rowROW, technical details governing franchisee’s
use and occupancy of the city public rowROW to perform the work are set forth
in the agreement. These details and standards are subject to periodic
changeroutinely updated and posted on the city’s official website; therefore,
the latest version, as amended from time to time, shall govern.
   B.   Subject to Federal, State, and Local Law: The franchise is subject to
city’s valid authority under federal, state, and local laws as they exist now
or may be amended from time-to-time, and subject to the conditions set forth in
this chapter. In the event of a material conflict between the terms of local
law and the applicable provisions of the agreement, the applicable provisions
of the agreement will prevail.
   C.   Subject to City’s Right to Use City Public ROW: The franchise is
subject and subordinate to city’s prior and continuing right to use the city
public rowROW, including constructing, installing, operating, maintaining,
repairing, or removing streets, roads, causeways, bridges, sewers, water pipes,
storm drains, gas pipes, utility poles, overhead and underground electric lines
and related facilities, and any and all other public utility and municipal
uses.
   D.   Subject to Pre-Existing Property Interests: City’s grant of the
franchise is non-exclusive and subject to all valid pre-existing easements,
restrictions, conditions, covenants, encumbrances, superior claims of title or
other property interests that may affect the city public rowROW, in addition to
those uses permitted by the revised ordinances of the city. Franchisee will
obtain at its own cost and expense any required permission or rights as may be
necessary to accommodate such pre-existing property interests, so long as such
pre-existing interests do not contravene state or federal law.
   E.   No Grant of Property Interest: The franchise does not grant or convey
any property interest.
   F.   Non-Exclusive: The franchise is not exclusive. City expressly reserves
the right to grant permits, franchises, privileges or other rights to any other
individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint
stock company, business trust, unincorporated association, joint venture,
governmental authority or other entity of any nature whatsoever (“person”), as
well as the right in its own name as a city, to use public rowROW for similar
or different purposes allowed franchisee under this chapter.
1-16-6: FRANCHISEE’S OBLIGATIONS:
   A.    Individual Permits Required: Subject to the requirements as described
in the agreement, as amended from time to time, franchisee will obtain city’s
approval of required individual encroachment, construction, excavation, and
other necessary permits before placing its network facilities in the city
public rowROW or other property of city as authorized. Franchisee will pay for
all lawful processing, field marking, engineering, and inspection fees
associated with the issuance of individual permits by city. The “City of
Moorhead Right-of-Way Details and Standards” attached to the agreement is
routinely updated and posted on the city’s website; therefore, the latest
version posted on the city’s website shall always govern.
   B.   Franchisee’s Sole Cost and Expense: Franchisee will perform the work at
its sole cost and expense, or with any local, state, or federal grants, and
other funding that may become available to franchisee.
   C.   Compliance with Laws: Franchisee will comply with all applicable laws
and regulations when performing the work. franchisee will place its network
facilities in conformance with the required permits, plans, and drawings
approved by city.
   D.   Reasonable Care: Franchisee will exercise reasonable care when
performing the work and will use commonly accepted practices and equipment to
minimize the risks of personal injury, property damage, soil erosion, and
pollution of surface or groundwater.
   E.   No Nuisance: Franchisee will maintain its network facilities in good
and safe condition.
   F.   Repair: Franchisee will promptly repair any damage to the city public
rowROW, city property, or private property if such damage is directly caused by
franchisee’s work and no other person is responsible for the damage (e.g.,
where a person other than franchisee fails to accurately or timely locate its
underground facilities as required by applicable law). Franchisee will repair
the damaged property to a condition equal to or better than that which existed
prior to the damage. franchisee’s obligation under this will be limited by, and
consistent with, any applicable seasonal or other restrictions on construction
or restoration work.
   G.   As-Built Drawings, Maps, and GIS Data: Franchisee will maintain
accurate as-built drawings, maps, and Geographic Information System (GIS) data
of its network facilities located in the city public rowROW. Franchisee will
provide these to the city upon reasonable request and on a mutually agreed
timetable (e.g., piecemeal following the closure of each permit, or all at once
after all the work is complete), subject to applicable confidentiality
protections.
   H.   Network Design: Nothing in this chapter requires franchisee to build to
all areas of city, and franchisee retains the discretion to determine the
scope, location, and timing of the design and construction of the network
facilities.
1-16-7: CITY’S OBLIGATIONS:
Notwithstanding city’s obligation as outlined in this section, franchisee’s use
of city public rowROW or city property shall be conducted in a manner
consistent with lawful and applicable public easement rights.
   A.   Emergency Removal or Relocation by City: In the event of a public
emergency that creates an imminent threat to the health, safety, or property of
city or its residents, city and/or other public utilities may remove or
relocate the applicable portions of the network facilities without prior notice
to franchisee. City and any affected public utility will, however, make best
efforts to provide prior notice to franchisee before making an emergency
removal or relocation. In any event, city and any other public utility
benefiting from this provision will promptly provide franchisee a written
description of any emergency removals or relocations of franchisee’s network
facilities. Franchisee will reimburse city and any affected public utility for
its actual, reasonable, and documented costs or expenses incurred for any such
emergency work, the direct cause of which was franchisee’s construction,
installation, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of its network
facilities. Franchisee’s obligation to reimburse city and any affected public
utility under this section will be separate from franchisee’s obligation to
reimburse city for any other reasonable expense city may incur.
   B.   Relocation to Accommodate Governmental Purposes: Franchise shall be
subject to and shall comply with Title 8 Chapter 4, Right of Way Management, of
the Moorhead Municipal Code whenever working within city public rowROW. If
franchisee’s then-existing network facilities would interfere with planned use
of the city public rowROW or city property of the city of Moorhead, the state
of Minnesota, or any other political subdivision (as defined by the IRS) for
any governmental purpose as reasonably determined by the city, franchisee will,
upon written notice from any of the foregoing entities, relocate its network
facilities at franchisee’s own expense to such other location or locations in
the city public rowROW as may be mutually agreed by the parties, taking into
account the needs of the governmental purpose. Franchisee will relocate its
network facilities within a commercially reasonable period of time agreed to by
the parties, taking into account the urgency of the need for relocation, the
difficulty of the relocation, and other relevant facts and circumstances, and
in accordance with the agreement.
   C.   Relocation to Accommodate Non-Governmental Purposes: If franchisee’s
then-existing network facilities would interfere with a third-party’s use of
the city public rowROW, franchisee will not be required to relocate its network
facilities unless the city reasonably determines in writing to franchisee, that
a failure to relocate network facilities will result in a significant and
material detriment or financial loss to the citizens of the city of Moorhead.
In that event, franchisee may be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable costs
and expenses incurred in relation to the relocation of its network facilities
as between the franchisee and the third party, as set forth in the agreement.
If there is a dispute between franchisee and the affected third party, city
will attempt to mediate the dispute between the parties so as to avoid or
mitigate unreasonable delays.
   D.   Post-Removal Restoration of City Public ROW: When removal or relocation
is required under this chapter, franchisee will, after the removal or
relocation of the network facilities, at its own cost, repair and return the
city public rowROW in which the facilities were located to the same or similar
conditions existing prior to the franchisee’s construction, and shall comply
with Title 8 Chapter 4, Right of Way Management, of the Moorhead Municipal
Code.
1-16-8: COSTS TO BE PAID BY FRANCHISEE:
A.   Franchisee shall pay the city the following costs: inspection, relocation
and facility location costs, all barricading, traffic detour or warning signing
or flagging not actually performed by franchisee, and for all other actual and
reasonable direct expenses actually incurred by city in regulating franchisee’s
use and occupancy of city public rowROW granted in this chapter. All direct
costs assessed by the city to franchisee will be consistent with applicable
law.
B.   In the event of a change in applicable law that permits city to impose and
collect a franchise fee from franchisee pursuant to this chapter, city shall
provide written notice to franchisee of its intent to exercise its franchise
fee rights. The parties shall cooperate and negotiate in good faith to amend
this chapter and the agreement.
1-16-9: CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS:
A.   Use of Contractors and Subcontractors: Franchisee may retain contractors
and subcontractors to perform the work on franchisee’s behalf.
B.   Contractors to be Franchised: Franchisee’s contractors and subcontractors
used for the work will be properly franchised under applicable law, and as set
forth in the agreement .
C.   Authorized Individuals: Franchisee’s contractors and subcontractors may
submit individual permit applications to city on franchisee’s behalf, so long
as the permit applications are signed by individuals that franchisee has
authorized to act on its behalf via a letter of authorization provided to city
in the form attached to the agreement (“Authorized Individuals”). City will
accept permit applications under this chapter submitted and signed by
authorized individuals, and will treat those applications as if they had been
submitted by franchisee under this chapter.
1-16-10: DEFENSE AND INDEMNITY:
A.   Obligations: Commencing on the effective date of this chapter, Franchisee
shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city, and its officers,
employees, agents, consultants, subcontractors, and representatives, from and
against any and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, expenses, demands,
suits, fines, judgments, costs, expenses, and fees (including all reasonable
fees and charges of attorneys, engineers, architects, and other professionals
and all court, arbitration, mediation, or other resolution costs) arising out
of or relating to any and all claims by third parties for property damage or
bodily injury, including death, to the proportionate extent caused by any
negligent act or omission of franchisee, any subcontractor, any supplier, or
any individual or entity directly or indirectly employed by any of them to
perform any of the work or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable, and
including all reasonable costs, expenses, and fees incurred by the city in
establishing and litigating the existence, scope, or any other matters relating
to franchisee’s obligations to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless.
Franchisee’s obligations to defend will be free of any conflicts of interest,
even if retention of separate legal counsel is necessary. Franchisee’s duties
to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless include anything in excess of any
minimum insurance requirements described in the agreement, and anything in
excess of any of franchisee’s insurance policy limits. Franchisee’s obligations
to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless will continue for a period of not less
than six (6) years following the date of completion of the work or any
termination or expiration of this chapter or termination of the agreement,
whichever date occurs last.
The indemnified party shall provide notice, as set forth in the agreement, to
franchisee’s after obtaining knowledge of any claim that it may have pursuant
to this Section 1-16-10. In the event the indemnified party pursues a claim
pursuant to this Section 1-16-10, the indemnified party will also provide
relevant information and assistance to franchisee.
B.   Exclusions: Section 1-16-10 (Defense and Indemnity) will not apply to the
extent the underlying allegation (a) arises from or is related to the
negligence or willful misconduct of an indemnified party or (b) is made by
city’s employee and covered under applicable workers’ compensation laws.
1-16-11: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE AGREEMENT.
THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS LIMITATION WILL BE SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE
LIMITED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
1-16-12: PERFORMANCE BOND:
Franchisee will provide city with a performance bond in the amount as set forth
in the terms and conditions of the permit for work within the public rowROW.
1-16-13: INSURANCE:
Franchisee will carry and maintain liability insurance in the amounts and in
accordance with the terms set forth in the permit for work within the public
rowROW.
1-16-14: TERM:
The agreement is effective on the date the last party to sign executes the
agreement, and will expire as set forth in the agreement (“effective date”).
The agreement will expire automatically on the fifth (5th) anniversary of the
effective date (“original term”) unless earlier terminated in accordance with
the provisions herein. Thereafter, the agreement will automatically renew for
successive five (5) year terms (each a “renewal term”) unless a party provides
at least ninety (90) days’ prior written notice to the other party of its
intent not to renew.
1-16-15: TERMINATION:
A.   Termination by City: City may terminate the agreement if franchisee is in
material breach of the agreement, provided that city must first provide
franchisee written notice of the breach and one hundred eighty (180) days to
cure, unless the cure cannot reasonably be accomplished in that time period, in
which case franchisee must commence its efforts to cure within that time period
and the cure period will continue as long as such diligent efforts continue. no
termination under this paragraph will be effective until the relevant cure
period has expired.
B.   Termination by Franchisee: Franchisee may terminate the agreement for
convenience upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice to city.
1-16-16: ASSIGNMENT:
Except as set forth below, neither party may assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under the agreement, in whole or part, to a third party, without
the written consent of the other party. Any agreed upon assignee will take the
place of the assigning party, and the assigning party will be released from all
of its rights and obligations upon such assignment.
A.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, franchisee may at any time, on written
notice to city, assign the agreement or any or all of its rights and
obligations under the agreement:
1.   to any affiliate (as defined below) of franchisee;
2.   to any successor in interest of franchisee’s business operations in city
in connection with any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction if
franchisee determines after a reasonable investigation that the successor in
interest has the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of the
agreement; or
3.   to any purchaser of all or substantially all of franchisee’s network
facilities in city if franchisee determines after a reasonable investigation
that the purchaser has the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of
the agreement.
B.   Following any assignment of the agreement to an affiliate, franchisee will
not remain responsible for such affiliate’s performance under the terms of the
agreement. For purposes of this section, (a) “Affiliate” means any person that
now or in the future, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled with or
by, or is under common control with franchisee; and (b) “control” means, with
respect to: (i) a U.S. corporation, the ownership, directly or indirectly, of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power to elect directors thereof, or
(ii) a non-U.S. corporation, if the voting power to elect directors thereof is
less than fifty percent (50%), the maximum amount allowed by applicable law;
and (iii) any other person, fifty percent (50%) or more ownership interest in
said person, or the power to direct the management of such person.
1-16-17: NOTICE:
All notices related to this chapter will be in writing and sent, if to
franchisee to the email addresses set forth belowin the agreement, and if to
city, to the city of Moorhead, Attn: City Manager, P.O. Box 779, Moorhead, MN
56561-0779, with a copy to the City Attorney at Ohnstad Twichell, P.C., P.O.
Box 458, West Fargo, ND 58078-0458. Notices are effective (a) when delivered in
person, (b) upon confirmation of a receipt when transmitted by electronic mail,
(c) on the next business day if transmitted by registered or certified mail,
postage prepaid (with confirmation of delivery), (d) on the next business day
if transmitted by overnight courier (with confirmation of delivery), or (e)
three (3) days after the date of mailing, whichever is earlier.
1-16-18: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The agreement is governed by the laws of the state of Minnesota and any dispute
arising hereunder shall be venued in Clay County, Minnesota. Neither party will
be liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by
circumstances beyond its reasonable control. The agreement, including any
exhibits thereto, sets out all terms agreed between the parties and supersedes
all previous or contemporaneous agreements between the parties relating to its
subject matter. The agreement, including any exhibits, constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties related to this subject matter, and any change to
its terms, including, but not limited to, amendments or modifications, must be
in writing and signed by the parties. The parties may execute the agreement in
counterparts, including facsimile, PDF, and other electronic copies, which
taken together will constitute one instrument. Each party to the agreement
agrees that franchisee may use electronic signatures.
1-16-19: APPROVAL:
The agreement shall not be effective until the execution of the agreement by
the city has been approved by resolution of its city council.
1-16-20: NON-DISCRIMINATION:
Franchisee will comply (and similarly require compliance by contractors from
time to time used or hired to plan, construct, or maintain network facilities
pursuant to the agreement) with applicable federal, state, and local laws with
respect to prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of race, color sex,
age, disability, political or religious opinions, affiliations, or national
origin.
1-16-21: HOME RULE CHARTER:
Except as permitted under Minnesota law, no elected official or officer or
employee of the city shall have a financial interest, direct or indirect, in
any city contract. Any violation of this section, with the knowledge of the
person or corporation entering into said contract with the city as of the
effective date may render said contract voidable by the city council. City
recognizes and acknowledges that ownership of less than controlling shares of
stock of franchisee’s direct parent by an elected officer/employee of the city
does not render the agreement void or voidable.
1-16-22: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The parties expressly reserve any rights either of them may have under state or
federal law concerning the subject matter of the agreement and further agree
that by execution and performance of the agreement, neither party shall be
deemed to have waived any such rights.
1-16-23: SEVERABILITY:
If any part of the agreement is deemed invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the
remainder of the agreement will remain in effect.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication in accordance
with the Moorhead City Charter.
 
PASSED: August 25, 2025 by the City Council of the City of Moorhead.
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68ef61e2f76b6289a5869f2f6083e603802c7b8d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3275_2821x949.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68ef61e2f76b6289a5869f2f6083e603802c7b8d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3278_2788x812.jpg]
APPROVED BY:            ATTEST:
 
________________________            ___________________________
Michelle (Shelly) A. Carlson, Mayor         Christina Rust, City Clerk
 
 
First Reading: 08/11/2025
E-Post: 08/13/2025
Second Reading: 08/25/2025
Date of Publication: 08/28/2025
 
 
 
MOORHEAD CITY CHARTER
Preamble. We the people of the city of Moorhead, under the constitution and
laws of Minnesota, in order to secure the benefits of local self- government
and promote honest, accountable governance, provide for appropriate municipal
services, encourage citizen participation, and foster a sense of community, do
hereby adopt this charter and establish the following procedures and
governmental structure. (Ord. 2006-19, 1-2-2007)
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Section 1.01.   Name And Boundaries. The city of Moorhead, Clay County,
Minnesota, is and will continue to be a municipal corporation with the
boundaries existing on July 16, 1995 or as later modified in accordance with
law. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 1.02.   Powers Of The City.The city has all powers that it is now or
hereafter possible for a municipal corporation in the state of Minnesota to
exercise in harmony with the constitutions of the state of Minnesota and of the
United States. It is the intention of this charter to confer upon the city
every lawful power that the city would have if the power were specifically
mentioned. This charter is to be construed liberally in favor of the city. The
specific mention of particular powers in this charter does not limit the powers
of the city to those mentioned or limit the generality of the powers conferred
by this section. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 1.03.   Other Laws.The city may not exercise a power conferred by
law on statutory cities only unless that power is specifically granted by this
charter. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
CHAPTER 2
FORM OF GOVERNMENT
   Section 2.01.   Form Of Government.The form of government established by
this charter is the council manager plan. Except as otherwise provided by law
or this charter, all powers of the city are vested in the city council. The
city manager is responsible to the council for the proper administration of
city affairs. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 2.02.   Boards And Commissions.Except as otherwise provided by law
or this charter, there are no separate administrative boards or commissions
except boards and commissions established for the administration of a municipal
function jointly with another political subdivision. The council performs the
duties and exercises the powers of administrative boards or commissions. The
council may establish boards or commissions to advise the council with respect
to a municipal function or activity, to investigate a subject of interest to
the city, or to perform quasi-judicial functions. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff.
7-17-1995)
   Section 2.03.   Council Composition.The council is composed of the mayor
exercising the powers specified in section 2.07 and two council members from
each of the four wards of the city. The terms of the office of mayor and
council members are four years and until their respective successors are
elected and qualify for office. One council member must be elected from each
ward every two years. The mayor must be an eligible voter of the city, and a
council member must be an eligible voter of the ward from which elected. The
terms of office of the mayor and council members in office on July 16, 1995,
continue in accordance with the schedule of elections in effect on July 16,
1995. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 2.04.   Ward Boundaries.
   Subd. 1. General. The four wards must be as equal in population as
practicable. The population of a ward may not exceed the population of any
other ward by more than ten percent. A ward must be composed of compact,
contiguous territory.
   Subd. 2. Wards Continue.The wards of the city are those fixed by ordinance
as of July 16, 1995.
   Subd. 3. Reapportionment.The council may by ordinance redefine ward
boundaries after any municipal election. Within three months after the official
certification of a federal decennial census, the council must by ordinance
either confirm the existing boundaries or redefine those boundaries to comply
with this section. If the council fails to take either action, further
compensation may not be paid to the mayor or council members until the wards
are redefined. An ordinance establishing new ward boundaries applies to the
first regular election held at least six months after the adoption of the
ordinance. An ordinance redefining or confirming ward boundaries may not be
adopted until after a public hearing before the council on the proposed
ordinance after seven days' published notice.
   Subd. 4. Effect On Terms.A change in ward boundaries does not disqualify a
council member from serving for the remainder of that member's term. (Ord. 95-
1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 2.05.   Incompatible Offices.The mayor or a member of the council
may not be appointed to a paid municipal office in the city nor be employed by
the city. The mayor and council members may hold another compatible public
office. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 2.06.   Vacancies.
   Subd. 1. A vacancy in the office of mayor or council member exists for the
following reasons:
   (a)   Failure of a person elected to the office to qualify for that office;
   (b)   The death of the mayor or council member;
   (c)   The resignation of the mayor or a council member;
   (d)   The mayor ceasing to be a resident of the city or a council member
ceasing to be a resident of the ward from which elected;
   (e)   Conviction of the mayor or a council member of a felony either before
or after qualification for office;
   (f)   Removal of the mayor or a council member from office;
   (g)   The mayor or a council member is found to be an incapacitated person
pursuant to law;
   (h)   The appointment of a council member as mayor pursuant to subdivision 3
of this section;
   (i)   Any reason specified by law.
   Subd. 2. When a vacancy occurs in a city council member's office, the
council must by resolution declare the vacancy to exist. The council shall give
public notice of the vacancy, and anyone who is qualified may apply for the
position. The council shall fill the vacancy by council appointment from the
qualified applicants until a special election is held as provided in
subdivision 4.
   Subd. 3. When a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor, the council must by
resolution declare the vacancy to exist. The council shall then by majority
vote of its members appoint one of its members to serve as mayor. The member so
appointed shall possess all the rights and powers of the mayor until a special
election is held as provided in subdivision 4. Appointment of a council member
as mayor shall result in said council member's office being deemed vacant.
   Subd. 4. If the vacancy occurs and exists before the first day to file
affidavits of candidacy for the next regular city election, a special election
must be held at the next regular city election or on the date of the next
ensuing state general election as the case may be, and the appointed person
serves until the qualification of a successor elected at the special election
to fill the unexpired portion of the term. If a vacancy occurs and exists on or
after the last day for filing affidavits of candidacy for the regular city
election or for a special election to be held on the date of the next ensuing
state general election, the appointed person serves until the qualification of
a successor elected at the next regular city election. (Ord. 2011-07, 6-13-
2011)
   Section 2.07.   The Mayor.The mayor is a member of the council for purposes
of presiding at its meetings. The mayor may not vote on matters before the
council unless there is a tie vote of the council members, in which case the
mayor may vote. The mayor may appoint council committees. The mayor may not
serve on a council committee unless such service is approved by a unanimous
vote of all council members. The mayor is the head of the city government for
ceremonial purposes, for the purpose of service of civil process, and for
purposes of martial law. The mayor has no administrative duties. (Ord. 95-1, 4-
17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 2.08.   Mayor Pro Tem.A mayor pro tem must be appointed by the mayor
at the annual meeting of the council. The mayor pro tem may vote on all matters
before the council but may not cast an additional vote in case of a tie vote of
the council. The mayor pro tem serves at the pleasure of the mayor. The mayor
pro tem serves as mayor in the mayor's disability or absence from the city or
when a vacancy in the office of mayor exists. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
   Section 2.09.   Salaries.The salaries of the mayor and council members are
fixed by ordinance in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff.
7-17-1995)
   Section 2.10.   Investigation Of City Affairs.The council may investigate
the affairs of the city and the conduct of city departments, officers and
agencies and for this purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take
testimony and require the production of evidence. The council may audit the
accounts of any city officer or department. The council may conduct a survey or
research study of subjects of municipal concern. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-
17-1995)
   Section 2.11.   Interferences With Administration.The mayor, the council or
a council member may not dictate the appointment or removal of an
administrative officer or employee except the city manager. The mayor, the
council or a council member may express views and discuss with the manager
matters pertaining to the appointment and removal of officers and employees.
Except for the purpose of investigation, the mayor, the council or a council
member must deal with and control city administrative officers and employees
under the jurisdiction of the city manager solely through the manager. The
mayor, the council or a council member may not give orders to a subordinate of
the manager either publicly or privately. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
CHAPTER 3
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
   Section 3.01.   Council Meetings.
   Subd. 1. The council meets at least once each month at the times and places
as set by rule in compliance with law. The mayor or three council members may
call a special meeting of the council after notice to each council member and
the mayor, if applicable, and such reasonable public notice as set by council
rule in accordance with law. Actions and discussion at special and emergency
meetings must be confined to the specific purposes set forth in the notice of
the meeting, and no other action may be taken at a special or emergency
meeting. Meetings of the council and its committees are public meetings. A
citizen may have access to the minutes and records of the council at reasonable
times and in accordance with law.
   Subd. 2. At the first meeting of each year new council members and a new
mayor, if any, are seated and assume their duties; and the council is
organized. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.02.   Secretary Of Council.The city clerk or some other person
designated by the council is secretary of the council. The secretary must keep
a record of council proceedings and perform other duties required by this
charter, the council, ordinance or law. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.03.   Rules Of Procedure.The council determines its own rules and
order of business. A majority of the council members constitutes a quorum, but
a smaller number may adjourn from time to time. The council may by rule provide
a means by which a minority may compel the attendance of absent members. For
voting purposes, the council is composed of the two council members for each of
the four wards of the city, and the mayor may vote only as provided in section
2.07. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.04.   Ordinances And Resolutions.Except as otherwise provided in
this charter, all legislation shall be by ordinance. The votes of council
members on any action taken shall be recorded in accordance with law. Except as
otherwise provided in this charter, an affirmative vote of a majority of all
the members of the council shall be required for the adoption of ordinances and
for the payment of preauthorized expenditures. Resolutions may be adopted by an
affirmative vote of the majority of a quorum, except that every ordinance or
resolution involving the appropriation or disposition of public property, the
expenditure of public money, levying any tax or assessment, creating any
liability, awarding or approving any contract for the payment of money, or
ordering any condemnation of private property shall require a three-fourths
vote of all members of the council; provided, however, that the adoption and
approval of the regular payroll of city employees shall only require majority
vote of the members of the council present. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
   Section 3.05.   Procedure On Ordinances.An ordinance must be introduced in
writing. A proposed ordinance may be introduced only at a regular council
meeting when it must be considered by the council. The ordinance must be
considered for a second time at a regular meeting at least twelve (12) days
after first reading. An ordinance may be adopted only after having been
considered by the council two times as provided in this section. (Ord. 2004-20,
8-2-2004)
   Section 3.06.   Emergency Ordinances.An emergency ordinance is an ordinance
adopted for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety.
The emergency must be defined and declared in a preamble to the ordinance. The
preamble must be voted on separately. An emergency ordinance may be introduced
and adopted at a regular, special or adjourned meeting of the council. (Ord.
95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.07.   Ordinance And Resolutions: Approval By Mayor.An ordinance or
a resolution adopted by the council must be promptly presented to the mayor for
approval. The mayor approves the ordinance or the resolution by signing it and
filing it with the clerk. If the mayor does not file the signed ordinance or
resolution with the clerk within seven days of adoption, the ordinance or
resolution is deemed approved. If the mayor does not approve the ordinance or
resolution, the mayor must return it to the clerk, who must present it,
together with the mayor's written objections, to the council at its next
regular meeting or at a special meeting called for the purpose of reconsidering
the ordinance or resolution. At that meeting the vote by which the ordinance or
resolution was adopted is deemed to be reconsidered. If, upon reconsideration,
six of the council members approve the ordinance or resolution; it is adopted
notwithstanding the mayor's disapproval. The vote of each council member on the
reconsideration of an ordinance or resolution must be recorded by the clerk. If
an ordinance or resolution is adopted in the absence of the mayor, the mayor
pro tem must approve the ordinance or resolution and the official minutes of
the council's action, but the mayor must approve or disapprove the ordinance in
accordance with this section. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.08.   Publication Of Ordinances And Resolutions. An ordinance or a
resolution must be published in full if required by law or this charter or
ordered to be published in full by the council. Ordinances and resolutions,
together with related affidavits of publication, if applicable, must be
preserved by the clerk. An ordinance not required by statute or council order
to be published in full may be published in a summary form approved by the
council members. The summary form must include the title of the ordinance and a
summary of the ordinance conforming to law and informing the public of the
intent and effect of the ordinance. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 3.09.   When Ordinances And Resolutions Take Effect.A resolution or
an emergency ordinance is effective on adoption or at a later date stated in
the ordinance or resolution. Other ordinances are effective after publication
of the ordinance or at a later date stated in the ordinance. An ordinance
adopted by the voters of the city under chapter 5 is effective on its adoption
or at a later date stated in the ordinance. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
   Section 3.10.   Amendment And Repeal Of Ordinances And Resolutions.An
ordinance or resolution repealing all, or a part of, or amending a previous
ordinance or resolution must state the number, if any, and title of the
ordinance or resolution or part thereof to be repealed or amended. An ordinance
or resolution may not be repealed or amended by reference to the title only
except when the ordinance or resolution is to be repealed in full. The
repealing or amending ordinance or resolution must set forth in full each
section, subdivision or separately identified clause to be amended or repealed
and indicate by appropriate type or symbols the matter to be amended, repealed
or added. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTIONS
   Section 4.01.   Regular Elections.The regular city election is held on the
first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of each even numbered year at
the place or places designated by council resolution. The city clerk must
publish a notice of the election at least 14 days prior to the election.
Failure to publish the notice does not invalidate the election. (Ord. 95-1, 4-
17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995; amended per election of 11-5-2013)
   Section 4.02.   Special Elections.The council may by resolution order a
special election as provided by law and establish the procedures for holding
the election. The clerk must publish a notice of the special election at least
14 days prior to the election. Failure to publish the notice does not
invalidate the election. The procedure at a special election must conform as
nearly as possible to the procedure applying to other city elections. (Ord. 95-
1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 4.03.   Procedure At Elections.Subject to this charter and law the
council may by ordinance further regulate the conduct of city elections. Except
as otherwise provided by this charter and ordinance, state law applies to city
elections. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
CHAPTER 5
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM
   Section 5.01.   General Authority.The voters of the city may, in accordance
with this charter, propose ordinances not contrary to law or the provisions of
the charter and may require ordinances to be submitted to a vote by processes
known respectively as (a) the initiative and (b) the referendum. (Ord. 95-1, 4-
17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.02.   Petitions.An initiative or a referendum is initiated by a
petition signed by registered voters equal in number to at least ten percent of
the votes cast for the office of president of the United States at the last
preceding presidential election. A petition is sponsored by a committee of five
voters whose names and addresses must appear on the petition. A petition may
consist of one or more papers, but each paper circulated separately must
contain at its head or attached to the paper the statement required by either
section 5.05 or 5.07, as the case may be. A person signing a petition must list
that person's name and street address. Each page of the petition must have
attached a certificate, verified by oath, that each signature is the genuine
signature of the person whose name it purports to be. The person making the
certificate must be a registered voter of the city. A person whose name appears
on a petition may withdraw the name by a written statement filed with the city
clerk prior to the time the clerk advises the council as to the sufficiency of
the petition. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.03.   Determination Of Sufficiency.The clerk must examine the
petition as to its compliance with this chapter and deliver the petition with
the clerk's findings to the council within 30 days of its receipt by the clerk.
After receiving the report, the council must promptly determine by resolution
if the petition complies with this chapter. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
   Section 5.04.   Disposition Of Insufficient Petition.If the council
determines by resolution that the petition does not comply with this chapter,
the clerk must deliver a copy of the petition, together with a copy of the
council's resolution, to the sponsoring committee. Within 30 days after
receiving the petition and resolution from the clerk, the committee may file
additional corrected signature papers with the council and otherwise correct
the petition. If the council determines by resolution that the corrected
petition does not comply with this chapter, the clerk must file the corrected
petition and the council's resolution in the clerk's office and notify the
sponsoring committee in writing of the council's determination. The final
determination of the council that the petition does not comply with this
chapter does not prevent the filing of a new petition for the same purpose or
prevent the council from submitting the ordinance that was the subject of the
petition to the voters. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.05.   Initiative.An ordinance, except an ordinance
   (a)   Relating to the budget or a capital program,
   (b)   The appropriation of money,
   (c)   The levy of taxes,
   (d)   The compensation of city officers or employees, or
   (e)   The zoning or rezoning of land
may be proposed by petition pursuant to this chapter. The petition must state
at the head of each page or have attached to each page the text of the proposed
ordinance. If the council adopts the proposed ordinance or adopts the ordinance
with amendments and a majority of the members of the sponsoring committee do
not disapprove the amended ordinance by a written statement filed no later than
15 days after adoption of the ordinance, the ordinance need not be submitted to
the voters. If the council does not adopt the ordinance in a form acceptable to
a majority of the sponsoring committee within 60 days after the adoption of the
council resolution determining that the petition complies with this chapter,
the ordinance must be submitted to the voters at the next regular city
election, or at a special election to be held on the state wide election date
in May or during the state-wide primary election held in September. If a
regular city election or a special election to be held on the state wide
election date in May or the state primary election would occur within 120 days
of the receipt of the petition by the clerk, the ordinance must be submitted to
the voters at the next regular city election or special election to be held on
the state wide election date in May or state-wide primary election held in
September for which there is sufficient time to properly hold this special
election. The statement of the ballot question on the initiated ordinance must
be approved by the city attorney as to form and content. The statement of the
question on the ballot must be sufficient to clearly identify the ordinance and
to distinguish the question from all other questions on the ballot. The text of
the ordinance must be included in full in the notice of election and posted at
polling places on the day of election. The ordinance, if approved by the
voters, is effective on the day following certification of the election results
on the initiated ordinance or at a later date specified in the ordinance. (Ord.
2006-21, 1-2-2007)
   Section 5.06.   Initiated Ordinances: Special Provisions.An ordinance
initiated under section 5.05 must be promptly referred by the council to the
city attorney or other qualified attorney selected by the council for a written
opinion as to the ordinance's compliance with section 5.01, with a direction to
the attorney to report to the council within the 30 day period specified in
section 5.03. If the attorney advises the council that the initiated ordinance
is contrary to the provisions of law or this charter, neither the council nor
any city officer may take any further action under section 5.05 with respect to
the ordinance. Upon receipt of the attorney's opinion that the initiated
ordinance complies with section 5.01 or if the attorney does not report to the
council within the 30-day period, the council and city officers must proceed as
directed by section 5.05. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.07.   Referendum.An ordinance subject to the initiative may be
subjected to the referendum by a petition received by the clerk within 30 days
after the publication of the ordinance. The petition must state at the head of
each page or have attached to each page a description of the ordinance in
adequate detail to clearly identify the ordinance. If the council determines
that the petition complies with this chapter, the ordinance is effective as
otherwise provided in this chapter. Unless the council repeals the ordinance in
its entirety, the ordinance must be submitted to the voters at the next regular
city election or at a special election called for that purpose, as the council
determines. The statement of the ballot question on the initiated ordinance
must be approved by the city attorney as to form and content. The statement of
the question on the ballot must be sufficient to clearly identify the ordinance
and to distinguish the question from all other questions on the ballot. The
text of the ordinance must be included in full in the notice of election and
posted at polling places on the day of election. The ordinance, if approved by
the voters, continues in effect or is effective as otherwise provided in this
charter, as the case may be. The ordinance, if not approved by the voters, is
deemed repealed on the day following certification of the election results on
the referendum. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.08.   Forms And Procedures.The council by resolution may prescribe
further regulations, not inconsistent with this chapter, relating to the form
and content of petitions and the processing of petitions. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-
1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 5.09.   Initiated Ordinance.An initiated ordinance approved by the
voters may not be subject to a referendum, for a period of 2 years from the
date of the election at which it was adopted. An initiated ordinance may be
amended or repealed by the city council by a two-thirds' vote of the council
within 2 years of the date of the election at which the ordinance was
initiated. Thereafter, it may be amended or repealed in the same manner as
other ordinances of the city. (Ord. 2006-22, 1-2-2007)
   Section 5.10.   Referred Ordinances.An ordinance which has been successfully
referred by the voters may not be enacted by an initiated ordinance by the
voters, for a period of 2 years from the date of election at which it was
referred. An ordinance which has been referred may be reenacted by the city
council by a two-thirds' vote of the council within 2 years of the date of the
election at which the ordinance was referred. Thereafter, it may be enacted in
the same manner as other ordinances of the city. (Ord. 2006-23, 1-2-2007)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION OF CITY AFFAIRS
   Section 6.01.   The City Manager.The city manager is the chief
administrative officer of the city. The manager is chosen by the council solely
on the basis of training, experience, executive and administrative
qualifications. The manager is appointed by the council for an indefinite term
and may be removed at any time by the council; however, after serving as city
manager for one year the manager may demand written charges and a public
hearing on the charges before the council prior to the date when the final
removal takes place. Pending the hearing and removal, the council may suspend
the manager from office. After the hearing the council may reinstate the
manager or make the removal final. The council must designate some properly
qualified person to perform the duties of the manager during the manager's
absence or disability or while the office of manager is vacant. (Ord. 95-1, 4-
17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 6.02.   Powers And Duties Of The Manager.
   Subd. 1. The city manager is the head of the administrative branch of city
government and is responsible to the council for the administration of the
city's affairs.
   Subd. 2. The manager must ensure that this charter and the laws, ordinances
of the city and the resolutions of the city council are enforced.
   Subd. 3. The manager appoints on the basis of merit and fitness and subject
to applicable personnel rules, appointed officers and employees of the city,
except the city attorney, who is appointed by and may be removed by the
council. The manager's appointment and removal of department heads is final on
approval of the council. The manager may remove or suspend appointed officers
and employees subject to applicable personnel rules and this charter.
   Subd. 4. The manager directs and supervises departments, officers and
agencies of the city except as otherwise provided by law or this charter.
   Subd. 5. The manager must attend meetings of the council. The manager may
take part in discussion at council meetings but may not vote. The council may
exclude the manager from a meeting at which the removal of the manager is
considered.
   Subd. 6. The manager may recommend to the council for adoption measures
necessary for the welfare of the people and the efficient administration of the
city's affairs.
   Subd. 7. The manager must keep the council fully advised of the financial
condition of the city. The manager must prepare and submit the annual budget.
   Subd. 8. The manager performs other duties prescribed by this charter or the
council. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 6.03.   Administrative organization.The council may by ordinance
establish city departments, offices and agencies and prescribe their functions.
A power or duty conferred by this charter on an office or agency may not be
transferred by the council to a different office or agency. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-
1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 6.04.   Subordinate officers.The officers of the city are the city
clerk and other officers subordinate to the city manager as determined by the
council by ordinance or resolution. The city clerk is responsible for keeping
public records and performing other duties under the direction of the city
manager. The council may by ordinance abolish offices created by ordinance and
combine the duties of various offices. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 6.05.   Purchases and contracts.The city manager is the chief
purchasing agent of the city. Purchases and contracts are made by the manager
in accordance with procedures specified by council resolution. Other contracts
and bonds, instruments and documents to which the city is a party must be
signed by the mayor and the city manager on behalf of the city. The council may
by resolution adopt additional regulations for making city contracts. City
contracts must be made in accordance with law. (Ord. 2004-21, 8-2-2004)
CHAPTER 7
TAXATION AND FINANCE
   Section 7.01.   Council to control finances.The council is responsible for
the financial affairs of the city. The council must provide for the collection
of revenues, the safekeeping of assets, the auditing and settlement of
accounts, and the safekeeping and disbursements of public monies. (Ord. 95-1,
4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.02.   Fiscal year.The fiscal year of the city is the calendar
year. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.03.   System of taxation.Subject to the state constitution, and
except as forbidden by it or by law, the council may provide by ordinance for a
system of local taxation. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.04.   Submission of the budget.The city manager must prepare an
annual budget and submit it to the council by September 1 or some other date
fixed by law. The budget must provide a complete financial plan for city funds
and activities for the ensuing fiscal year. The budget is in a form recommended
by the city manager or specified by the council with necessary modifications
required by law. The budget must show in summary and in detail estimated income
and proposed expenditures, including debt service and comparative figures for
the current fiscal year, actual and estimated, and for the preceding fiscal
year. The budget must show proposed expenditures for current operations. The
budget must show proposed capital expenditures for the ensuing year and the
proposed method of financing those capital expenditures.The budget must show
anticipated net surplus or deficit and the proposed method of disposing of the
surplus or deficit for each utility operated by the city not under the
jurisdiction of the public service commission. Subsidiary budgets for each such
utility, showing income and expenditure information must be included in the
budget or attached as appendices. The budget may contain the preliminary and
tentative budget of the public service commission. The proposed budget to be
funded by property tax levies may not exceed the amounts authorized by law and
this charter. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.05.   Annual audit.The manager must provide for an annual audit
and financial statement of the city's finances by either the state auditor or a
firm of certified public accountants. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.06.   Council action on the budget.The budget must be considered
by the council no later than the first regular meeting of the council in
October or as otherwise required by law. The council must consider the budget
at subsequent meetings until a budget is adopted. The council must give
interested citizens a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the budget
meetings. The sums appropriated by the budget may not exceed the estimated
revenues and reserves available to fund the expenditures in the budget. The
council must adopt the budget by resolution not later than the date provided by
law. The budget resolution must state the total amount of each budgeted fund
and of each department, with segregation of objects and purposes of
expenditures as deemed necessary by the council. The budget resolution or a
separate, related resolution of the council must levy sufficient taxes to
provide adequate revenues for the budgeted expenditures. The clerk must certify
the budget resolution or tax resolution, as the case may be, to the county
auditor in accordance with law. The sums fixed in the budget resolution are
appropriated for the purposes identified in the budget resolution. (Ord. 95-1,
4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.07.   Enforcement of the budget.The city manager must enforce the
budget. The manager may not approve a payment or the incurring of an obligation
by the city unless funds for the payment or obligation are appropriated by the
budget and there is a sufficient unexpended balance in the appropriation after
deducting prior expenditures and encumbrances against the appropriation. An
officer or employee of the city may not place an order or make a purchase for
the city unless the order or purchase is authorized in the budget. An
obligation incurred by an officer or employee of the city for a purpose not
authorized in the budget or for an amount in excess of the amount is the
personal obligation of the person incurring the obligation. A city check drawn
on the treasury or other transfer of funds to a person or entity other than the
city may not be issued or paid until the claim to which the payment relates has
been documented by an itemized bill, payroll time sheet or other document
approved and signed by a responsible city officer who vouches for its
correctness and reasonableness. The city manager must report to the council
from time to time on the status of the budget and the expenditures from and
balances in the budget accounts and funds. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-
1995)
   Section 7.08.   Alterations in the budget.The council may not increase the
amounts appropriated in the budget resolution beyond the estimated revenues
except to the extent that actual receipts exceed the estimated revenues. The
council may by resolution reduce an appropriation for any purpose in the budget
or authorize the transfer of sums from unencumbered appropriations in the
budget to other purposes. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.09.   Funds to be kept.There must be maintained in the city
treasury a general fund and the other funds required by law, this charter,
ordinance, the budget resolution or other resolution. The council may by
resolution make interfund loans except from trust or agency funds. (Ord. 95-1,
4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.10.   City indebtedness.Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and law, obligations of the city may not be issued to pay current
expenses, but the council may issue and sell its obligations for any other
municipal purpose in accordance with law and within the limits prescribed by
law. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 7.11.   Anticipation certificates.At any time after January 1 the
council may issue certificates of indebtedness in anticipation of state and
federal aid and the collection of taxes levied in the previous year for any
fund but not yet collected. The total amount of certificates issued against a
fund for a fiscal year together with interest thereon until maturity may not
exceed the total of state or federal aid and current taxes due to the fund and
uncollected at the time of issuance. The certificates may be issued on terms
and conditions determined by the council. The certificates must mature not
later than April 1 of the year following their issuance. The proceeds of the
tax levied for the fund and the state or federal aids allocated to the fund
against which the certificates are issued, together with the full faith and
credit of the city, must be irrevocably pledged for the payment of the
certificates at maturity or earlier redemption. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-
17-1995)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   Section 8.01.   Improvements: assessments.The city may make any type of
public improvement not forbidden by law and may levy special assessments
against benefited property for all or a portion of the cost of a local
improvement in accordance with law. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 8.02.   Assessment for services.The council may provide by ordinance
and in the manner provided by law that the cost of city services to public or
private property may be assessed against benefited property and collected in
the same manner as special assessments. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
CHAPTER 9
EMINENT DOMAIN
   Section 9.01.   Acquisition of property.The city may acquire by purchase,
gift, eminent domain or otherwise property within or outside its boundaries
needed by the city for a public purpose. In acquiring property by exercising
the power of eminent domain, the city must proceed in accordance with law.
(Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
CHAPTER 10
FRANCHISES
   Section 10.01.   Franchises required.Except as otherwise provided by law a
person, firm or corporation may not place or maintain a permanent or semi-
permanent fixture in, over, upon or under a street or other public place in the
city for the purpose of operating a public utility or for any other purpose
without a franchise from the city. A franchise is granted by ordinance that may
not be an emergency ordinance. An ordinance granting a franchise must contain
all the terms and conditions of the franchise. The grantee must pay the cost of
publication of the franchise ordinance. A franchise is not effective unless it
has been unconditionally accepted by the grantee and filed with the clerk.
   Section 10.02.   Term.A perpetual franchise may not be granted. A franchise
for a term exceeding 25 years is not effective until approved by a majority of
the voters at a regular or special election.
   Section 10.03.   Public hearing.Before a franchise ordinance is adopted or
the rates, fares, or prices to be charged by a public utility are fixed by the
council, the council must hold a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the
hearing must be published at least once in the official newspaper not less than
ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   Section 10.04.   Regulation.Subject to applicable law, the council may by
ordinance reasonably regulate the exercise of a franchise, including the rates
to be charged by the grantee. Unless prohibited by law, the ordinance may
impose a franchise fee on a public utility grantee. The city may inspect the
books and records of the grantee at reasonable times. The council may require
the grantee to provide the city with written reports on the grantee's operation
in the city. The grantee must notify the city in writing of a proposed rate
increase at least 60 days prior to the proposed effective date of the increase.
The city council may appoint a commission or referee to investigate the grantee
and report to the council on matters regulated by a franchise. The value of a
franchise may not be included in either the valuation of the grantee's property
in regulating rates under an applicable law, ordinance or regulation or in
proceedings for city acquisition of the grantee's property by purchase or
eminent domain.
   Section 10.05.   Renewals and modifications.The renewal or modification of a
franchise is subject to the limitations of this chapter and is granted in the
same manner as a new franchise.
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP OF UTILITIES
   Section 11.01.   Authority to own and operate.The city may own and operate a
water, gas, electric, district heating, telephone, transportation or other
public utility authorized by law or this charter for supplying its own needs
for utility service and products to others within or without the corporate
limits of the city. The city may construct all facilities reasonably needed;
maintain, enlarge, extend, repair and operate any such public utility; and may
acquire any existing utility properties needed for that purpose. The city may,
in lieu of or in addition to providing for the local production of gas,
electricity or any other utility product, purchase such a product wholesale and
resell it to others. The city may not acquire or construct a public utility
unless the proposition to acquire or construct the public utility has been
embodied in an ordinance, which may not be an emergency ordinance, adopted by
the council.
   Section 11.02.   Regulations and rates.Except as otherwise provided in
chapter 12 of this charter as it relates to utilities under the jurisdiction of
the public service commission, the council may by ordinance fix rates and
charges for municipal utility services, prescribe the time and manner of
payment for the services; and make such other regulations; including penalties
for their violation as may be necessary for the protection, maintenance,
operation, extension and improvement of the utilities and for the sale of the
city's utility products and services.
   Section 11.03.   Lease of utility.With the prior approval of the public
service commission concerning utilities under the jurisdiction of the
commission, the council may by ordinance, which may not be an emergency
ordinance, adopted by six members of the council, contract for a term not to
exceed ten years with any person, firm or corporation for the operation of any
utility owned by the city upon such terms and conditions as the council deems
necessary.
   Section 11.04.   Sale of public utility.A public utility or any specific
part thereof owned by the city may not be sold or otherwise disposed of by the
city unless the full terms of the proposition of sale or other disposition are
embodied in an ordinance approved by a majority of the voters voting thereon at
a general or special election and approved by the public service commission
concerning utilities under the jurisdiction of the commission. The sale, lease
or abandonment of a water utility or an electric utility is subject to the
requirements of applicable law.
   Section 11.05.   Other services.The city may construct, operate, maintain
and dispose of sanitation facilities and other public service enterprises from
which a revenue sufficient to maintain the service is or may be derived within
or without the corporate limits of the city.
   Section 11.06.   Additional powers.The powers granted to the city by this
chapter are in addition to and not in substitution for any other power granted
to the city by law or this charter.
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC UTILITIES; OPERATION; FINANCING
   Section 12.01.   Commission. There is created and continued a public service
commission of the city with the powers and duties set forth in this chapter.
The public service commission is referred to in this chapter as "the
commission".
   Section 12.02.   Commission: jurisdiction. The commission is responsible for
the control, management and operation of the water utility plant and
distribution system, the electric utility plant and distribution system, and
the district heating system. The council may by ordinance delegate to the
commission the control, management and operation of any city owned public
utility, sewage disposal and sewerage system, sanitation facility or public
service enterprise of the city.
   Section 12.03.   Commission: membership. Subdivision 1. The commission
consists of six commissioners. Only one of the members of the commission shall
be a current member of the City Council. Except for the current member of the
City Council appointed to the commission, each commissioner is appointed for a
term of three years and serves until their successors are appointed and
qualify. A commissioner must be a resident of the city. Four of the
commissioners must be a resident of each of the four wards in the city, one
commissioner is appointed at large, and one commissioner must be a current
member of the City Council. When the term of the current member of the City
Council expires or their office is vacant as set forth in Chapter Two of this
Charter, that commissioner’s term shall be deemed to terminate and the City
Council shall appoint a current City Council member to the commission. A change
of residence of a commissioner from the ward from which the commissioner is
appointed creates a vacancy in the office. A vacancy in an office of
commissioner is filled by appointment for the unexpired term. The City Council
may by ordinance provide for the compensation of the commissioners; however the
current member of the City Council shall not be compensated for serving on the
commission. (Ord. 2021-15, 11-22-2021)
   Subd. 2. The commissioners from wards one and four are appointed for terms
beginning February 1, 1991. The commissioners from wards two and three are
appointed for terms beginning February 1, 1993. The commissioner at large is
appointed for a term beginning February 1, 1992. Commissioners in office on
March 9, 1990, remain in office until the respective dates set forth in this
subdivision. The commissioners from wards are appointed by the council. The
commissioner at large is appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
council.
   Section 12.04.   Organization: officers. The commission must adopt bylaws
governing its operations and proceedings. The commission must annually elect a
chairperson and such other officers as prescribed by its bylaws.
   Section 12.05.   Powers. Subdivision 1. The commission has the powers and
duties given in this section.
   Subd. 2. The commission must appoint a chief administrative officer.
   Subd. 3. The commission may employ persons necessary for its management and
operation, prescribe the duties of its officers and employees, and fix their
compensation.
   Subd. 4. The commission may exercise any power necessary and convenient for
the efficient and economical operation of the utilities and services under its
control and may enter into contracts for these purposes. The provisions of
state law relating to competitive bidding apply to contracts of the commission.
A contract for an amount for which competitive bidding is required by law must
be approved by the council and executed in the same manner as other city
contracts. The commission bylaws must provide procedures for the execution and
delivery of contracts and other documents by the commission.
   Subd. 5. The commission may purchase fuel, equipment and supplies necessary
for its operation. The commission may purchase wholesale utility products for
retail distribution.
   Subd. 6. The commission may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the
efficient and economical operation of utility services and public services
under its control.
   Subd. 7. Subject to the provisions of section 12.10, the commission may
impose just and equitable rates and charges for the use and availability of the
utility services and public services under its control. In determining the
reasonableness of the charges to be imposed, the commission may consider all
costs of the establishment, operation, maintenance, depreciation and necessary
replacements of the utilities, improvements, enlargements and extensions
necessary to the utilities, and the principal and interest on obligations
issued or to be issued by the city for capital improvements to the utilities.
   Subd. 8. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the council and the
commission may enter into agreements for
   (a)   payment by the city for utility service,
   (b)   compensation for the use by either the city or the commission of
buildings, equipment and personnel under the control of the other,
   (c)   payments by the commission to the city in lieu of taxes, transfers of
surplus utility funds to the general fund or capital improvements fund of the
city, and
   (d)   any other matter deemed necessary by the commission and the council.
   Subd. 9. Locations; extensions. The commission must locate fire hydrants and
public lights as the council directs. The extension of water and district
heating mains by the commission must be approved by the council.
   Section 12.06.   Rules and regulations: operation. The rules and regulations
of the commission may provide for but are not limited to the following matters:
   (a)   the entry upon land and property by commission employees at reasonable
times for examination and service in connection with utility properties,
   (b)   the procedures for prosecution by the city for violation of rules
regulating the unauthorized use of utility services or for damage of utility
properties,
   (c)   the extension of water mains, district heating mains and electrical
transmission lines, as approved by the city council,
   (d)   the prevention of waste of utility products and services, and
   (e)   the procedures for the termination of utility services for non-
payment of rates and charges.
The rules and regulations of the commission relating to rates and charges and
the use of the utilities by the public must be published in such manner as the
commission deems necessary to reasonably inform the public of their content and
may be embodied by the council in ordinances of the city.
   Section 12.07.   Payment: rates and charges: remedies.The commission may
provide by rule that charges for the use and availability of water, electricity
and district heating are a charge against the owner, lessee or occupant of the
property served, or all of them, and may provide for certifying unpaid charges
with interest thereon to the county auditor with taxes against the property
deemed for collection as other taxes are collected. Charges for utility
services may be recovered in a civil action against the owner, lessee or
occupant, or all of them, on the property served.
   Section 12.08.   Financial matters.Subdivision 1. The commission must
annually, prior to the date fixed by law or this charter for the approval of
the city budget, submit to the council a preliminary and tentative budget for
the ensuing fiscal year and must supply to the council the commission's final
budget and such other financial data and reports as the council may request
from time to time. The commission must annually prepare and file a financial
report with the city manager. The financial report must be included in the
annual financial statement of the city.
   Subd. 2. All monies paid to the commission from whatever source derived must
be paid into the appropriate city fund established pursuant to section 7.09 of
this charter. All disbursements of the city or the commission attributable to a
utility or service under the control of the commission must be paid from the
appropriate fund subject to the procedures set forth in section 7.07 of this
charter.
   Subd. 3. The city council may, on its own initiative or at the request of
the commission, issue and sell obligations as provided by law and this charter
to provide monies for the acquisition and betterment of utility facilities
under the control of the commission. The council may not issue and sell the
obligations without the consent of the commission embodied in a resolution of
the commission.
   Section 12.09.   Capital improvements fund: bonds.Subdivision 1. There is
created and continued a capital improvements fund as a fund of the city. Monies
in the capital improvements fund may be used by the city for the acquisition
and betterment of capital improvements of the city.
   Subd. 2. The city council may from time to time in any fiscal year and by a
vote of six members of the council transfer from net revenues in its utility
funds to the capital improvements fund an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the
gross revenues derived by the commission in that fiscal year from utilities or
services under the control of the commission except the district heating
system.
   Subd. 3. In this section the terms "gross revenues" and "net revenues" have
the meanings given them by section 12.11, subdivision 5.
   Subd. 4. The council may by a vote of six members of the council issue and
sell obligations of the city to provide monies for the construction of capital
improvements and may pledge to the payment of the obligations all or a defined
portion of the estimated receipts of the capital improvements fund. Obligations
so issued are payable solely from the receipts pledged for their payment, but
if the question of the issuance of the obligations is approved by the voters of
the city at a regular or special election, the obligations may be issued as
general obligations of the city. The obligations must be issued in accordance
with law and section 7.10 of this charter but are not a debt of the city within
any statutory limitation of debt.
   Subd. 5. The capital improvements fund may be terminated at any time by the
council by the same vote required for its establishment. A pledge of utility
receipts of the capital improvements fund made for the benefit of the holders
of obligations issued under subdivision 2 will not be affected by the
termination of the capital improvements fund.
   Section 12.10.   Rates.Changes in rates and charges for services under the
jurisdiction of the commission may be initiated by resolution of either the
commission or the council. Following such a resolution, the commission must
hold a public hearing at which anyone may present oral or written testimony. A
meeting notice must be published ten days before the hearing. During the 30 day
period following the public hearing, the commission may receive written
testimony and must consider such testimony at its next regular meeting or at a
special meeting called for that purpose. The changes in rates and charges as
proposed or modified by the commission are effective on the expiration of the
30 day period following the public hearing or at a later date fixed by the
commission. The commission must adopt rules governing the conduct of hearings
on changes in rates and charges and must publish the rules in such manner as it
deems necessary to fully inform the public of their content.
   Section 12.11.   City use of utilities: transfer of funds.Subdivision 1. The
council and the commission may agree on reasonable rates and charges to the
city for utility products and services, but the rates and charges may not be
higher than those imposed upon similar classes of customers.
   Subd. 2. The commission's charge to the city for the use and availability of
fire hydrants for municipal fire protection may not exceed $40.00 for each
hydrant in the city unless otherwise provided by written agreement between the
city and the commission.
   Subd. 3. The city may not levy taxes of any nature on utilities under the
control of the commission or on the revenues of the commission.
   Subd. 4. The council may by a vote of six members transfer in any fiscal
year to the general revenue fund of the city from the net revenues of a utility
or service under the control of the commission and from the net revenues of any
city owned utility the following amounts:
   (a)   from the electric utility, an amount not to exceed 20 percent of gross
revenues,
   (b)   from the district heating utility, an amount not to exceed 10 percent
of gross revenues,
   (c)   from any other city owned utility, an amount not to exceed 5 percent
of gross revenues, and
   (d)   any amount authorized by law to be so transferred.
   Subd. 5. In this chapter the term "gross revenues" means all operating and
non-operating revenues of a utility from whatever source derived; the term "net
revenues" means gross revenues less current expenses of the operation of the
utilities. The amounts of gross revenues and net revenues must be determined by
the commission in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Transfers made pursuant to this section must be consistent with covenants with
bondholders in city resolutions authorizing the issuance of obligations payable
from revenues of the utilities.
CHAPTER 13
MISCELLANEOUS AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
   Section 13.01.   Official publication.At its first meeting in each year, the
council must designate one or more legal newspapers of general circulation in
the city as its official newspaper, ordinances and other matters required by
law or this charter to be published and other matters that the council deems
necessary are published in the official newspaper.
   Section 13.02.   Oath of office.Elected officers of the city and a city
officer so required by law or pursuant to this charter must before taking
office, take and subscribe to an oath of office in the form required by law.
   Section 13.03.   Official bonds.Before assuming office or employment, the
city manager, the city clerk and other officers of the city required by law or
ordinance must give a corporate surety bond to the city as security for the
faithful performance of duties and the safekeeping of public funds. The bond
must be in the form and amount fixed by the council and may be either an
individual or blanket bond. The bond must be approved by the council, approved
as to form by the city attorney and filed with the clerk. The premium on the
bond is paid by the city. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 13.04.   Official Interest In Contracts.Except as otherwise
permitted by law, an officer of the city who is authorized to take part in any
matter in a contract with the city may not voluntarily have a personal
financial interest in or personally benefit from the contract. (Ord. 95-1, 4-
17-1995, eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 13.05.   Sale Of Real Property.The city shall advertise all real
property available for disposal at least once per year. If a property has not
been advertised for sale within the prior twelve months, the city may not
dispose of the property without first publishing an advertisement for sale of
that property once in the official newspaper of the city at least 14 days prior
to its disposal. If real property has been used for municipal purposes, the
city may not dispose of that property without first holding a public hearing on
the disposal following one published notice of the hearing at least ten days
prior to the disposal. In all cases, the disposal of real property must be
approved by a resolution passed by the city council. (Ord. 2004-22, 9-20-2004)
   Section 13.06.   Vacation Of Streets.The council may by resolution and in
accordance with law vacate a street, alley, public grounds, public way, or part
thereof, in the city. The vacation may be made after 14 days' published notice
and 10 days' mailed notice to affected property owners of a public hearing
before the council or planning commission on the matter. Failure to give mailed
notice or any defect in the notices does not invalidate the proceedings. The
clerk must give a notice of completion of the vacation proceedings with the
appropriate county officer. Failure to file the notice does not invalidate the
proceeding. (Ord. 2004-23, 8-2-2004)
   Section 13.07.   Effect Of Charter Revision.This charter is effective on
July 17, 1995, and is a revision and comprehensive amendment to the charter of
the city as it existed on July 16, 1995. Nothing in this charter is to be
construed to modify, abrogate or abridge (a) the rights, duties, liabilities,
privileges or immunities of the city, (b) the ordinances and resolutions of the
city, (c) pending or completed condemnation, improvement or assessment
proceedings, or (d) the qualifications or terms of office of city officers as
they existed on July 16, 1995, except as otherwise specifically provided in
this charter. This charter is not to be construed to affect, modify or repeal
any special law of the state applicable to the city. (Ord. 95-1, 4-17-1995,
eff. 7-17-1995)
   Section 13.08.   Charter Commission Membership.Current members of the
Moorhead city council cannot serve as members of the Moorhead charter
commission. (Ord. 2006-24, 1-2-2007)
TRANSMITTAL AND DELIVERY CERTIFICATE OF CHARTER COMMISSION
   We, the undersigned, being the duly appointed, qualified and acting members
of the Charter Commission in and for the City of Moorhead, Clay County,
Minnesota, hereby certify that the foregoing document consisting of chapters 1
through 13, inclusive, is the draft of a proposed charter prepared and framed
by said Commission, and hereby affix our signatures to said draft in testimony
of our approval thereof, and deliver the same to the Honorable Morris Lanning,
Mayor of said City, as the chief magistrate or executive thereof, for action
pursuant to law.
Dated at Moorhead, Minnesota, this 6th day of February, 1995.
The foregoing is a draft of a proposed Charter and certificate in connection
therewith, dated this 6th day of February, 1995.
            
         Morris L. Lanning, Mayor
         City of Moorhead
         Clay County, Minnesota
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Format of Code
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Adoption of Code
1-1-5: Copies of Code Available
1-1-6: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
This code of ordinances may be known and cited as the MOORHEAD MUNICIPAL CODE
and it is hereby published by authority of the Council and shall be kept up to
date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. 1  (1967 Code §21.01[a]; 1987
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. City Charter §§3.04 et seq.
1-1-2: FORMAT OF CODE:
Each section number of this Code shall consist of three (3) component parts
separated by a dash; the first number refers to the title number, the second
number refers to the chapter number within that title, and the third number
refers to the position of the section with the chapter. (1967 Code §21.01[c];
1987 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1987 Code)
1-1-4: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   A.   From and after the effective date of this Section, the City Code of the
City of Moorhead, Minnesota, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing
the compilation of the Moorhead City Charter and of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said Charter and ordinances, under the
direction of the City Council of the City, shall be accepted in all courts as
prima evidence of the official code and law of the City as enacted by the City
Council.
   B.   There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   C.   All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City Code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation
ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed
or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such ordinances are not intended to
be included in the Official City Code.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or
amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to insert
or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be misrepresented
thereby.
Any person, firm or corporation violating this Section shall be punished as
provided in Section
1-4-2 of the City Code of Moorhead, Minnesota.
   E.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. Notwithstanding, any ordinance
adopted in 1987 and not included in this Official Code shall remain in full
force and effect and is not repealed.
   F.   This Section and the Code adopted by the same as printed and published
in book form by order of the City Council of the City shall take effect thirty
(30) days after the publication of this Section in accordance with the Moorhead
City Charter. 1  (Ord. 864, 10-19-87)
 
Notes
1 1. City Charter, §3.09.
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
A substantial quantity of copies of this Code shall be printed and kept
available at the City Clerk's office for general distribution to the public.
(1967 Code §21.09)
1-1-6: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
persons having in their custody an official copy of the City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner. They
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available through the office of the City Clerk. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of Ordinances
1-2-2: Severability of Provisions
1-2-1: REPEAL OF ORDINANCES 1 :
   A.   All general ordinances or parts thereof heretofore adopted by the
Council and not included in this Code are repealed, except the following which
are hereby continued in full force and effect:
      1.   Ordinances authorizing contracts or the issue of Municipal notes or
bonds;
      2.   Ordinances levying taxes or making special assessments;
      3.   Ordinances appropriating funds or establishing salaries;
      4.   Ordinances granting franchises or rights to corporations;
      5.   Ordinances relating to the establishment, dedication, opening,
grade, naming, improvement, altering, widening or vacating of any streets,
alleys, sidewalks, parks or public grounds;
      6.   Ordinances respecting the annexation of territory to the City or the
conveyance or acceptance of the real property or easements in real property;
      7.   Ordinances authorizing or relating to particular public
improvements; and
      8.   Any other special ordinances not in conflict with the provisions of
this Code.
      9.   Ordinances annexing territory to the City.
   B.   Zoning ordinances are amended in certain minor respects only, but not
in substance, to read as set forth in this Code.
   C.   The provisions of this Code, so far as they are the same in substance
as those of heretofore existing ordinances, are continuous of such ordinances
and not new enactments. Any act done, offense committed or right accruing or
acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior hereto
shall not be affected, but may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or
inflicted as fully and to the same extent as if the above repeal had not been
effected. (1967 Code §21.03)
 
Notes
1 1. City Charter §13.08.
1-2-2: SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this Code is
severable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this Code nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision. (1967 Code §21.07)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this City Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this City Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such changes to the City's ordinances are not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this Code have the following meanings:
CITY: The City of Moorhead, Minnesota.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Moorhead, and similarly the title of
any other officer, board or commission shall mean such officer, board or
commission of the City of Moorhead, unless otherwise specified.
CODE or THIS CODE: The Moorhead Municipal Code.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Moorhead.
COUNTY: Clay County, in the State of Minnesota.
MINNESOTA STATUTES: The latest publications of the laws of the State of
Minnesota, cited as M.S.A.
ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the City of Moorhead and all amendments thereto,
including this Code.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, estate, club,
association or corporation. As applied to partnerships or to corporations, the
word includes the officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
the act referred to. The singular person includes the plural and the plural
includes the singular. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter
genders.
STATE: The State of Minnesota. (1967 Code §21.02)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
JURISDICTION AND GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Municipal Jurisdiction
1-4-2: General Penalty
1-4-3: Responsibility For Acts
1-4-4: Administrative Citations And Civil Penalties
1-4-5: Administrative Procedure For Parking Violations
1-4-1: MUNICIPAL JURISDICTION:
Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts performed
within the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to
acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by
law, where the law or charter confers power on the city to regulate such
particular acts outside the corporate limits. (1967 Code §21.04)
1-4-2: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Standard Penalty: Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this
code for any particular provision, section or chapter, any person violating any
provisions of this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in
pursuance thereof, or any provision of any code adopted herein by reference,
shall, upon conviction, be subject in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota statutes sections 412.231 and 609.034 to a penalty of either a fine
not to exceed seven hundred dollars ($700.00) or imprisonment not to exceed
more than ninety (90) days, or both, but in either case the costs of
prosecution may be added. Said penalty and imprisonment provisions shall be
automatically amended, supplemented, or replaced by any amendment, supplement,
or replacement to the penalty and imprisonment provisions of Minnesota statutes
sections 412.231 and 609.034. (Ord. 438, 8-18-1969)
   B.   Violation: Any violation of this code is a penal offense and a
misdemeanor unless otherwise provided in this code. (Ord. 95-13, 8-7-1995)
   C.   Each Day A Violation: Each act of violation and every day upon which a
violation occurs or continues constitutes the basis of a separate offense.
   D.   Applicability: The penalty provided by this section or any section of
this code applies to the amendment of any section of this code or any code
adopted herein by reference to which the penalty relates whether or not such
penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinances, unless otherwise provided in
the amendment.
   E.   Reference To Sections: Reference to any section of this code shall be
understood to also refer to and include the penalty section relating thereto,
unless otherwise expressly provided.
   F.   Failure Of Officers To Perform Duties: The failure of any officer or
employee of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this code shall
not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed for violation of
this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided. (Ord. 438, 8-18-1969)
1-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS:
Any persons concerned in the commission of any act prohibited by this code,
whether they directly commit the act or prosecute, counsel, aid or abet in its
commission, may be prosecuted and on conviction are punishable as if they had
directly committed such act. No persons shall attempt to conspire to violate
any provision of this code, or obstruct or interfere with the enforcement of
this code, or conceal or aid in the concealment of any violation of this code.
(1967 Code §21.06)
1-4-4: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS AND CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   Purpose: The city council finds that there is a need for alternative
methods of enforcing this code. While criminal fines and penalties have been
the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain negative
consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in that
system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the city council finds that
the use of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is a
legitimate and necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of
enforcement is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for
city code violations.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   A violation of the provisions of titles 3, 9 or 10 of this code, in
addition to being a possible criminal violation, is an administrative offense
that may be subject to an administrative citation and civil penalties. Each day
a violation exists constitutes a separate offense. The city may elect to pursue
either the administrative offense or the applicable criminal offense, but not
both for the same offense.
      2.   An administrative offense may be subject to a civil penalty not
exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
      3.   The city council must adopt by resolution a schedule of fines for
offenses initiated by administrative citation. The city council may adopt a
schedule of fees to be paid to administrative hearing officers.
      4.   The city manager must adopt procedures for administering the
administrative citation program.
   C.   Administrative Citation:
      1.   A person authorized to enforce provisions of titles 3, 9 or 10 of
this code may issue an administrative citation upon belief that a code
violation has occurred. The citation must be issued in person or by mail to the
person responsible for the violation or attached to the motor vehicle in the
case of a vehicular offense. The citation must state the date, time, and nature
of the offense, the name of the issuing officer, the amount of the scheduled
fine, and the manner for paying the fine or appealing the citation.
      2.   The person responsible for the violation must either pay the
scheduled fine or request a hearing within seven (7) days after issuance.
Payment of the fine constitutes admission of the violation. A late payment fee
of ten percent (10%) of the scheduled fine amount may be imposed under
subsection F of this section.
   D.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   The city council will periodically approve a list of lawyers from
which the city manager will randomly select a hearing officer to hear and
determine a matter for which a hearing is requested. The accused will have the
right to request no later than five (5) days before the date of the hearing
that the assigned hearing officer be removed from the case. One request for
each case will be granted automatically by the city manager. A subsequent
request must be directed to the assigned hearing officer who will decide
whether he or she cannot fairly and objectively review the case. The city
enforcement officer may remove a hearing officer only by requesting that the
assigned hearing officer find that he or she cannot fairly and objectively
review the case. If such a finding is made, the officer shall remove himself or
herself from the case, and the city manager will assign another hearing
officer. The hearing officer is not a judicial officer but is a public officer
as defined by Minnesota statutes section 609.415. The hearing officer must not
be a city employee. The city manager must establish a procedure for evaluating
the competency of the hearing officers, including comments from accused
violators and city staff. These reports must be provided to the city council.
      2.   Upon the hearing officer's own initiative or upon written request of
an interested party demonstrating the need, the officer may issue a subpoena
for the attendance of a witness or the production of books, papers, records or
other documents that are material to the matter being heard. The party
requesting the subpoena is responsible for serving the subpoena in the manner
provided for civil actions and for paying the fees and expenses of a witness. A
person served with a subpoena may file an objection with the hearing officer
promptly but no later than the time specified in the subpoena for compliance.
The officer may cancel or modify the subpoena if it is unreasonable or
oppressive. A person who, without just cause, fails or refuses to attend and
testify or to produce the required documents in obedience to a subpoena is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Alternatively, the party requesting the subpoena may
seek an order from district court directing compliance.
      3.   Notice of the hearing must be served in person or by mail on the
person responsible for the violation at least ten (10) days in advance, unless
a shorter time is accepted by all parties. At the hearing, the parties will
have the opportunity to present testimony and question any witnesses, but
strict rules of evidence will not apply. The hearing officer must tape record
the hearing and receive testimony and exhibits. The officer must receive and
give weight to evidence, including hearsay evidence, that possesses probative
value commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of
their affairs.
      4.   The hearing officer has the authority to determine that a violation
occurred, to dismiss a citation, to impose the scheduled fine, and to reduce,
stay, or waive a scheduled fine either unconditionally or upon compliance with
appropriate conditions. When imposing a penalty for a violation, the hearing
officer may consider any or all of the following factors:
         a.   The duration of the violation;
         b.   The frequency or reoccurrence of the violation;
         c.   The seriousness of the violation;
         d.   The history of the violation;
         e.   The violators conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
         f.   The good faith effort by the violator to comply;
         g.   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator;
         h.   The impact of the violation upon the community; and
         i.   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
The hearing officer may exercise discretion to impose a fine for more than one
day of continuing violation, but only upon a finding that: 1) the violation
caused a serious threat of harm to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
that 2) the accused intentionally and unreasonably refused to comply with the
code requirement. The hearing officer's decision and supporting reasons must be
in writing.
      5.   The failure to attend the hearing constitutes a waiver of the
violator's rights to an administrative hearing and an admission of the
violation. A hearing officer may waive this result upon good cause shown.
Examples of "good cause" are: death or incapacitating illness of the accused; a
court order requiring the accused to appear for another hearing at the same
time; and lack of proper service of the citation or notice of the hearing.
"Good cause" does not include forgetfulness and intentional delay.
   E.   Judicial Review: An aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of the
decision of the hearing officer by filing a written appeal setting forth the
party's grounds for the appeal to the Clay County district court within thirty
(30) days of the date of the order of the hearing officer. The clerk of
district court will notify the city of any such appeal, and the city shall file
with the court all exhibits and the tape of the hearing before the hearing
officer. The court will review such record, and either uphold, reverse, or
modify the order of the hearing officer, or, if the court feels the record is
insufficient, or desires to hear arguments on the appeal, may schedule a new
evidentiary hearing on the matter, or arguments on the record, or both. The
court, unless it schedules an evidentiary hearing, will uphold the order of the
hearing officer, unless the court determines that the order was clearly
erroneous, or the administrative penalty imposed clearly excessive.
   F.   Recovery Of Civil Penalties:
      1.   If a civil penalty is not paid within the time specified, it will
constitute:
         a.   A lien on the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         b.   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      2.   A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in the
same manner as taxes.
      3.   A personal obligation may be collected by appropriate legal means.
      4.   A late payment fee of ten percent (10%) of the fine may be assessed
for each thirty (30) day period, or part thereof, that the fine remains unpaid
after the due date.
      5.   Failure to pay a fine is grounds for suspending or revoking a
license related to the violation.
      6.   The city may request the district court, after a hearing, to hold
the violator in contempt of court for not paying the fine, and the court may
impose any such penalties that the court could impose for not paying a fine for
a criminal sentence imposed by the district court.
   G.   Double Jeopardy: If the final adjudication in the administrative
penalty procedure is a finding of no violation, then the city may not prosecute
a criminal violation in district court based on the same set of facts. This
does not preclude the city from pursuing a criminal conviction for a violation
of the same provision based on a different set of facts. (Ord. 2004-18, 6-21-
2004)
1-4-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The city council finds there is a need for alternative methods
of enforcing parking violations. For other city code violations, the city
council has found its practice of utilizing administrative citations and
procedures effectively serves the needs of both the city and the accused. It
results in a more prompt resolution and eliminates the stigma of being labeled
as a criminal. Accordingly, the city council finds that the use of
administrative citations is a legitimate and alternative method of enforcement
of parking violations. This method of enforcement is in addition to any other
legal remedy that may be pursued under this code.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   A violation of the provisions of title 5, chapter 2 of this code, in
addition to being a possible criminal offense, is an administrative offense
that may be subject to an administrative citation. Each day a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense. The city may elect to pursue either the
administrative offense or the applicable criminal offense, but not both for the
same offense.
      2.   The city council must adopt by resolution a schedule of fines for
parking violations initiated by administrative citation. The city council may
adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to administrative hearing officers.
      3.   The city council must adopt procedures for administering the
administrative program for parking violations.
   C.   Administrative Citation:
      1.   A person authorized to enforce provisions of title 5, chapter 2 of
this code may issue an administrative citation upon belief that a code
violation has occurred. The citation may be issued in person to the accused or
attached to the motor vehicle parked in violation of this code. The citation
must state the date, time, and nature of the offense, the name of the issuing
officer, the amount of the scheduled fine, and the manner for paying the fine
or appealing the citation.
      2.   The accused must either pay the scheduled fine or request an
administrative hearing within seven (7) calendar days after issuance. Payment
of the fine constitutes admission of the violation. A late payment fee of ten
percent (10%) of the scheduled fine amount may be imposed under subsection F of
this section.
   D.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   The city manager with the consent of the council shall appoint
qualified individuals to serve as hearing officers for parking violation
appeals. Hearing officers are not judicial officers but public officers as
defined by Minnesota statutes section 609.415. Hearing officers shall be
appointed for five (5) year terms. Hearing officers may only be removed for
cause as determined by seven (7) of the eight (8) members of the city council.
      2.   Notice of the hearing may be served in person or by mail on the
accused at least ten (10) calendar days in advance, unless a shorter time is
accepted by all parties. At the hearing, the parties will have the opportunity
to present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules of evidence
will not apply. The hearing officer must tape record the hearing and receive
testimony and exhibits. The hearing officer must receive and give weight to
evidence, including hearsay evidence, that possesses probative value commonly
accepted by reasonable and prudent people in the conduct of their affairs.
      3.   The accused shall have the right to request no later than five (5)
calendar days before the scheduled hearing to appear at the hearing by
telephone. The city may grant this request for good cause shown.
      4.   The hearing officer has the authority to affirm, dismiss, or void a
citation issued in error and to impose, dismiss, or void a scheduled fine. When
imposing a penalty for a violation, the hearing officer may consider any or all
of the following factors:
         a.   The duration of the violation;
         b.   The frequency or reoccurrence of the violation;
         c.   The seriousness of the violation;
         d.   The history of the violation;
         e.   The accused's conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
         f.   The good faith effort by the accused to comply;
         g.   The economic impact of the penalty on the accused;
         h.   The impact of the violation upon the community; and
         i.   Any other factors appropriate to a just result.
The hearing officer may exercise discretion to impose a fine for more than one
day of continuing violation, but only upon a finding that the accused
intentionally and unreasonably refused to comply with the code requirement. The
hearing officer's decision and supporting reasons must be in writing.
      5.   The failure to attend the hearing constitutes a waiver of the
violator's rights to an administrative hearing and an admission of the
violation. A hearing officer may waive this result upon good cause shown.
Examples of "good cause" are: incapacitating illness of the accused; a court
order requiring the accused to appear for another hearing at the same time; and
lack of proper service of the citation or notice of the hearing. "Good cause"
does not include forgetfulness or intentional delay.
      6.   Upon receipt of an appeal of a parking violation, the parking
tickets division of the Moorhead police department shall compile a summary
report detailing the facts in support of any determination that the behavior
constitutes an offense. The summary report shall include:
         a.   A copy of the citation issued;
         b.   A record of any prior offenses committed by the accused;
         c.   Photographs and/or videotape of property where available;
         d.   Proof of mailing and/or posting of the citation on the property
if the citation was not personally served on the accused; and
         e.   Proof of mailing of notice of the administrative hearing.
   E.   Judicial Review: An aggrieved party may obtain judicial review of the
decision of the hearing officer by filing a written appeal setting forth the
party's grounds for the appeal to the Clay County district court within thirty
(30) calendar days of the date of the order of the hearing officer. The clerk
of district court will notify the city of such appeal, and the city shall file
with the court all exhibits and the tape recording of the hearing before the
hearing officer. The court will review such record, and either uphold, reverse,
or modify the order of the hearing officer. The court, unless it schedules an
evidentiary hearing, will uphold the order of the hearing officer, unless the
court determines that the order was clearly erroneous, or the administrative
fine imposed was clearly excessive.
   F.   Late Fees: A late payment fee of ten percent (10%) of the fine may be
assessed for each thirty (30) day period, or part thereof, that the fine
remains unpaid after the due date.
   G.   Double Jeopardy: If the final adjudication in the administrative
parking violation appeal is dismissal, then the city may not prosecute a
criminal violation in district court based on the same set of facts. This does
not preclude the city from pursuing a criminal conviction for a violation of
the same provision based on a different set of facts.
   H.   Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous Dogs: Hearing officers appointed to
preside over parking violation appeals shall also preside over proceedings to
designate a dog as potentially dangerous or dangerous. (Ord. 2015-19, 10-12-
2015)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meeting Times Of The Council
1-5-2: Salaries
1-5-3: Mayor And Council Elected In Even Numbered Years
1-5-1: MEETING TIMES OF THE COUNCIL 1 :
The council shall set the date and times of such meetings by resolution. (Ord.
2010-1, 5-24-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. City charter §3.01.
1-5-2: SALARIES 1 :
The salaries hereinbelow established for the mayor and members of the city
council of the city of Moorhead shall remain in effect as provided by law until
future action by ordinance of the city council.
   A.   Effective January 1, 2023, the salary for the mayor of the city of
Moorhead shall be one thousand six hundred seventy-two dollars ($1,672.00) per
month for each month actually served; effective January 1, 2024, the salary for
mayor of the city of Moorhead shall be one thousand seven hundred twenty-two
dollars ($1,722.00) per month for each month actually served.
   B.   Effective January 1, 2023, the salary for members of the city council
of the city of Moorhead shall be eight hundred seventy-seven dollars ($877.00)
per month for each month actually served; effective January 1, 2024, the salary
for members of the city council of the city of Moorhead shall be nine hundred
three dollars ($903.00) per month for each month actually served. (Ord. 2005-
22, 9-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2022-25, 12-12-2022)
 
Notes
1 2. City charter §2.09.
1-5-3: MAYOR AND COUNCIL ELECTED IN EVEN NUMBERED YEARS:
The mayor and city council shall be elected at the regular city election held
on the first Tuesday after the first Monday of November of each even numbered
year in accordance with the provisions of the Moorhead city charter 1 . (Ord.
2014-02, 3-24-2014)
 
Notes
1 3. City charter §4.01.
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
1-6-1: City Departments And Other Officers
1-6-2: Duties Of City Manager
1-6-3: Duties Of Department Heads
1-6-4: Authority To Issue Citations
1-6-5: Personnel
1-6-1: CITY DEPARTMENTS AND OTHER OFFICERS:
   A.   In addition to the City Manager's Office, there shall be six (6)
departments in the City of Moorhead. They shall be the Department of Community
Development, the Department of Engineering, the Department of Public Works, the
Department of Parks and Recreation, the Police Department, and the Fire
Department. The heads of these six (6) departments shall be deemed department
heads pursuant to section 6.02.3 of the City Charter, and they shall be
responsible directly to the City Manager. These department heads shall be
appointed by the City Manager, subject to section 6.02.3 of the City Charter.
   B.   Not under the control of the department heads, but in the
administrative services divisions of the City Manager's Office, shall be the
Assistant City Manager, the City Clerk, the City Prosecutor, the Economic
Development Director, and the functions of prosecution services, governmental
affairs, public relations, legislative, economic development, finance, human
resources, and information technology.
   C.   The Community Development Department shall be in charge of Building
Codes, property maintenance, Code enforcement, rental registration, airport,
and planning and zoning.
   D.   The Engineering Department shall be in charge of engineering services,
stormwater, and wastewater treatment.
   E.   The Fire Department shall be responsible for fire suppression, fire
safety training, and rental housing inspections.
   F.   The Police Department shall be responsible for police patrol, police
administration, and police investigation.
   G.   The Public Works Department shall be responsible for streets,
sanitation, forestry, and maintenance of public land and facilities.
   H.   The Parks and Recreation Department shall be responsible for recreation
programs, golf courses, senior programs and cultural programs.
   I.   The City Clerk shall be under the Office of the City Manager and shall
perform the functions as required by State Statute and City Charter, as well as
other duties delegated to the Clerk by the City Manager.
   J.   The City Attorney shall be hired directly by the City Council. This
position or positions may be filled by full time employees or by contract
services in the discretion of the City Council.
   K.   A current organization chart for all positions in the City shall be
prepared and maintained by the City Manager and filed in the Office of the City
Clerk. (Ord. 2018-11, 9-24-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-04, 3-25-2019)
1-6-2: DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER:
The duties of the City Manager shall consist of the following:
   A.   The City Manager shall be the sole City official reporting directly to
the Mayor and Council. (Ord. 2002-21, 1-21-2003)
   B.   The City Manager shall supervise the heads of the six (6) departments,
as well as all personnel in the City Manager's Office. (Ord. 2002-21, 1-21-
2003; amd. Ord. 2013-15, 8-12-2013)
   C.   All directives of the Mayor and Council to any of the departments or
employees of the City shall be made through the City Manager, and all reports
on the requests from each department or employee shall be made to the City
Manager. At the discretion of the City Manager, individual department heads or
other employees may present such reports directly to the Mayor and Council.
   D.   The city manager shall establish the scope and extent of the
administrative responsibilities of each department of the city.
   E.   The city manager shall control and direct the administration of all
affairs relating to the city, pursuant to law and to this chapter and other
provisions of the charter and regulations consistent therewith adopted by the
council.
   F.   The city manager shall maintain staff at council authorized levels.
(Ord. 2002-21, 1-21-2003)
1-6-3: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS:
   A.   Department heads are officers of the city and shall perform all duties
required of their office by state law, the charter, this code, ordinances and
resolutions of the city, and such other duties not in conflict therewith as may
be assigned by the city manager.
   B.   The heads of departments shall:
      1.   Be directly responsible to the city manager for the effective
administration of their respective departments and all activities assigned
thereto.
      2.   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their respective fields,
and shall inaugurate, with the approval of the city manager, such new practices
as appear to be of benefit to the service and to the public.
      3.   Prepare department budgets in accordance with the established
procedures as determined by the city manager.
      4.   Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and
reports, in sufficient detail to provide all information necessary for proper
control of department activities.
      5.   Have power, subject to direction of the city manager and the
ordinances and resolutions of the council, to direct all subordinates in their
respective departments.
      6.   Be responsible for the proper maintenance of all city property and
equipment used in their respective departments.
      7.   Attend council meetings as required by the city manager.
      8.   Communicate departmental policies, procedures and informational
reports from the various departments to the city manager.
      9.   Utilize guidelines and municipal policy statements issued by the
council, Minnesota statutes, municipal code and the city charter as resources
for decision making.
   C.   Each department shall cooperate with other departments and shall
furnish, upon the direction of the city manager, any other department such
service, labor and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of such
department, and as its own facilities permit, through the same procedure and
subject to the same audit and control as other expenditures are incurred. (Ord.
2002-21, 1-21-2003)
1-6-4: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS:
   A.   Certain city officials and staff have the following jurisdictional
duties and responsibilities under which citations in lieu of arrest or
continued detention for violation of city ordinance or code provisions may be
issued:
      1.   Peace Officers And Part Time Peace Officers: All provisions of city
ordinances or codes plus all other applied laws they are otherwise authorized
to enforce.
      2.   Community Service Officers: All provisions of city ordinances or
codes relating to animal control and parking.
      3.   Fire Department Officers And Marshals: All provisions of city
ordinances or codes relating to firefighting, fire prevention, fire protection,
and building and housing standards and safety plus all other applied laws they
are otherwise authorized to enforce.
      4.   Building Officials And Housing Inspectors: All provisions of city
ordinances or codes relating to building and housing regulations, including
building and housing codes and standards.
      5.   Environmental Health And Sanitation Officials: All provisions of
city ordinances or codes relating to public health and sanitation, including
food and beverage establishments, lodging establishments, manufactured homes,
swimming pools, and nuisances.
      6.   Zoning Officials: All provisions of city ordinances or codes
relating to zoning.
   B.   Certain officials and staff of Minnesota State University Moorhead,
Concordia College, and Moorhead Technical Institute/Independent School District
152 designated by the Moorhead police department shall have limited and special
jurisdictional duties and responsibilities on their respective campuses under
which citations in lieu of arrest or continued detention for violation of city
ordinances relating to parking may be issued. (Ord. 2002-21, 1-21-2003)
1-6-5: PERSONNEL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to authorize the city of
Moorhead to conduct computerized criminal history and driver's license history
inquiries on persons who are finalists for employment positions in the city and
who are volunteers in city programs. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to preclude the city from conducting comprehensive background investigations of
applicants for city employment positions, including, but not limited to,
accessing public data through other automated and nonautomated sources and
contacting references. Nothing in this section shall also be construed to
preclude the city from periodically conducting a driver's license inquiry upon
employees or volunteers where possession of a valid driver's license is an
essential qualification of the position.
   B.   Definitions:
   COMPUTERIZED CRIMINAL HISTORY INQUIRIES: Criminal histories obtained through
the Minnesota bureau of criminal apprehension's computerized criminal history
system.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE HISTORY INQUIRIES: Driver's license violations recorded by
the Minnesota department of public safety.
   C.   Findings Of The City Council: The city council of the city of Moorhead
makes the following findings regarding the need to conduct computerized
criminal history and driver's license history inquiries on persons who are
finalists for city positions and who are applying to volunteer in city
programs, recognizing that the city council has a significant interest in
protecting the general public in the performance of government services:
      1.   Certain city employees and volunteers work independently with and
provide public services to some of the most vulnerable members of society:
children, senior citizens, developmentally disabled individuals, and mentally
ill persons. Protection of these vulnerable persons warrants the investigation
of persons who are finalists to fill these certain employment positions with
the city and who are applying to volunteer in city programs that provide
services to these members of the public.
      2.   Some city employees work closely with public funds and accounts and
are in employment positions that have access to property or assets of the city
where losses are difficult to detect or prevent. In order to minimize the risk
that the public trust will be violated, computerized criminal history inquiries
of those individuals who are finalists to be employed in such positions are
necessary.
      3.   Several city employees enter the private homes of city residents on
a regular basis in the performance of necessary and worthwhile public services.
Computerized criminal history inquiries on persons who are finalists for such
positions are deemed necessary to minimize the risk that the personal safety of
residents in their homes will be violated.
      4.   Many city employees and some volunteers operate, on a regular basis,
heavy machinery, buses, street maintenance equipment, and/or other city owned
motor vehicles on public rights of way. In order to minimize the loss of public
property and the loss of life in serious traffic accidents, computerized
criminal history inquiries and driver's license history inquiries of finalists
for such positions are appropriate.
      5.   In accordance with the state policy of encouraging the
rehabilitation of criminal offenders, the computerized criminal history and
driver's license history inquiries prescribed herein shall not be an automatic
bar to public employment but rather used in assessing the rehabilitation of the
finalist in accordance with Minnesota statutes, sections 364.01 to 364.10.
      6.   This section cannot guarantee that certain groups or individuals
will be protected from the criminal acts of employees or volunteers; rather,
its intent is to minimize certain risks in the performance of government
services to the general public.
   D.   Computerized Criminal History And Driver's License History Inquiries
Authorized: The city manager or the city manager's designee is authorized to
conduct computerized criminal history and driver's license history inquiries in
accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   Only persons who are finalists for the positions of employment or
who are applying to volunteer in city programs shall be subject to the
computerized criminal history and driver's license history inquiries prescribed
herein.
      2.   The person who is a finalist for a position shall be presented with
an informed consent form indicating that the person may consent to the
computerized criminal history inquiry and/or driver's license history inquiry
or may refuse. If the finalist refuses to consent, the person shall not be
allowed to continue in the employment process for the position sought.
      3.   Persons who are applying to volunteer shall be notified that
computerized criminal history and/or driver's license history inquiries will be
conducted prior to their participation in the program.
   E.   Good Faith Reliance On Record Accuracy: The city may in good faith rely
on the accuracy of the criminal history information received from federal,
state, and county authorities in conducting the computerized criminal history
or driver's license history inquiry prescribed herein. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-19-
2006)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-7-1: Planning Commission Established, Membership
1-7-2: Adoption Of Program
1-7-3: City Plan Duties
1-7-4: Zoning Plan
1-7-5: Map Of Street Extensions
1-7-6: Changes In Plans
1-7-7: Recommended Public Works
1-7-1: PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED, MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Establishment: A city planning commission for the city of Moorhead is
hereby established.
   B.   Composition, Term, Oath, Fees And Vote:
      1.   The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) appointed
members. The appointed members of the commission shall all be residents of the
city and shall be selected by appointment as hereinafter defined and subject to
the confirmation of the council. The two (2) council members from each ward
shall collectively appoint one member from the ward they represent. The mayor
shall appoint one member at large. The mayor shall appoint one council member
and the board of county commissioners shall appoint a member from its own
membership. The Mayor and board of county commissioners may also appoint one
(1) voting alternate member each from their membership to serve in the regular
appointee’s absence.
      2.   The appointed members shall serve a term of three (3) years or until
their successor has been elected and qualified. January 31 is hereby
established as the uniform expiration date for the terms of planning commission
members.
      3.   Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, all appointed
members shall take an oath that they will faithfully discharge the duties of
the office.
      4.   All members shall serve without compensation except that they shall
be reimbursed actual and necessary expenses incurred in connection with the
carrying out of their respective duties.
   C.   Officers: The commission shall elect a chair from among its appointed
members for a term of one year; and the commission may create and fill such
other offices as it may determine.
   D.   Meetings: The commission shall hold one regular meeting each month
unless canceled in accordance with the adopted bylaws. It shall adopt bylaws
for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of its transactions and
findings, which record shall be public record.
   E.   Reports: In January of each year, the commission shall submit to the
council a report of its work during the preceding year. Expenditures of the
commission shall be as authorized for the purpose by the council. (1967 Code
§41.01a; 1967 Code §41.01b; amd. Ord. 283; Ord. 304; Ord. 380; Ord. 608, 2-22-
1977; Ord. 827, 11-4-1985; Ord. 94-16, 9-19-1994, eff. 2-1-1995; Ord. 2012-6,
3-26-2012; Ord. 2023-06, 4-24-2023)
1-7-2: ADOPTION OF PROGRAM:
Upon the appointment and organization of the commission, it shall proceed with
the preparations and adoption of a program of work, outlining activities
proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its powers and the performance of
its duties. Such a program shall include:
   A.   An outline of data and information to be assembled as a basis for the
city plan;
   B.   An outline of subjects to be covered by the city plan;
   C.   An outline of types of procedure necessary to make the city plan
effective.
The commission may from time to time revise its program of work. (Ord. 283;
amd. Ord. 304; 1967 Code §41.01f)
1-7-3: CITY PLAN DUTIES:
   A.   Preparation of City Plan: The Planning Commission shall prepare and
adopt a comprehensive City plan for the physical development of the City,
including proposed public buildings, street arrangements and improvements,
public utility services, parks, playgrounds and other similar developments, the
use of property, the density of population and other matters relating to the
physical development of the City. Such plan may be prepared in sections, each
of which shall relate to a major subject of the plan, as outlined in the
Commission's program of work. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code §41.02)
   B.   Adoption of Plan: At such time as the Planning Commission has prepared
a City plan or a section of City plan, the Commission shall submit the same to
the Council for approval and adoption. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code §41.03)
   C.   Executing Plan: Upon the adoption of the City plan or any section
thereof, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the Council reasonable and
practicable means for putting into effect such plan or section thereof in order
that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical
development of the City and as a basis for the efficient expenditure of the
funds thereof relating to the subjects of such City plan.
Such means shall consist of a zoning plan, the control of subdivision plats, a
plan of future streets, coordination of the normal public improvements of the
City, a long- term program of capital expenditures and such other matters as
will accomplish the purposes of this Chapter. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code
§41.04)
1-7-4: ZONING PLAN:
The Planning Commission, upon its own motion, may and upon instructions by the
Council shall prepare a proposed revised zoning plan for the City 1 . Before
recommending such plan to the Council, the Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon after a notice. The same procedures shall apply for the
preparation of any plan of proposed rights of way for future streets or
highways, or the future widening of existing streets or highways or for the
reservation of and for other public purposes. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code
§41.05)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
1-7-5: MAP OF STREET EXTENSIONS:
The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City Engineer, may and upon
instruction by the Council shall, prepare an official map of the platted and
unplatted portions of the City and adjoining territory, or portions thereof,
indicating upon such map the proposed future extension or widening of streets
of the City within such existing platted and developed territory or across such
unplatted territory.
After such map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held as provided
in Section
1-7-4, it shall be submitted to the Council, which shall thereupon consider
such map and may adopt it or any part of it with such amendments as it deems
advisable. Before such adoption by the Council, a public hearing shall be held
upon the proposal at least ten (10) days after a notice thereof has been
published in the official newspaper of the City. After such map has been
adopted by the Council and filed with the Register of Deeds, whenever any
existing street or highway is widened or improved, or any new street is opened
or lands for other public purpose are acquired by action of the City, it shall
not be required in such proceedings to pay for any building or structure placed
without a permit or in violation of conditions of a permit after the filing of
such a map within the limits of the mapped street, or outside of any building
line that may have been established upon the existing street, or within any
area thus reserved for public purposes. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code §41.06)
1-7-6: CHANGES IN PLANS:
No change shall be made in the zoning plan, future street and public lands plan
or regulations governing the platting of land after such plans or regulations
have been adopted by the Council until the proposed change has been referred to
the Planning Commission for report thereon and an attested copy of such report
has been filed with the Council; and no ordinance or resolution establishing
any of such plans or specifications shall be adopted by the Council until such
ordinance or resolution has been referred to the Commission for a report
thereon and an attested copy of such report has been filed with the Council.
Failure of the Commission so to report within forty (40) days or such longer
period as may be designated by the Council after such reference shall be deemed
to be approval of the proposed change. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code §41.07)
1-7-7: RECOMMENDED PUBLIC WORKS:
Each officer, department, board or commission of or in the City whose functions
include recommending, preparing plans for or constructing public works shall,
at least three (3) months before the end of each fiscal year, submit to the
Planning Commission a list of the proposed public works recommended by such
officer, department, board or commission for planning, initiation or
constructing during the ensuing fiscal year. The Commission shall request from
the local school district a similar list of its proposed public works. The
Commission shall list and classify all such proposed public works and shall
prepare a coordinated program of proposed public works for the ensuing fiscal
year. Such program shall be recommended by the Commission to the Council and to
such other officers, departments, boards or public bodies as have jurisdiction
over the recommending, planning or constructing of such public works. A copy of
such recommended program of the public works shall be included in the annual
report of the Planning Commission. (Ords. 283, 304; 1967 Code §41.08)
CHAPTER 8
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-8-1: Public Service Commission
1-8-2: Compensation Of Commission Members
1-8-1: PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION:
The appointment, eligibility, duties and powers of the public service
commission shall be in accordance with the city charter 1 . (Ord. 792, 1-23-
1984)
 
Notes
1 1. City charter §12.02 et seq.
1-8-2: COMPENSATION OF COMMISSION MEMBERS:
Pursuant to section 12.03 of the city charter, the city council does herewith
establish the following monthly salary for the members of the public service
commission of the city, said salary to remain in effect as provided by law.
   Effective January 1, 1997      $150.00
Future compensation increases for the public service commission shall be equal
to the percentage increase given to the members of the city council and shall
take effect at the same time. (Ord. 97-1, 3-17-1997)
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISE REQUIRED
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Findings
1-8A-2: Purpose
1-8A-3: Definitions
1-8A-4: Extension Of Facilities Prohibited
1-8A-5: Exemptions
1-8A-6: Enforcement
1-8A-7: Penalties
1-8A-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   Expansion Of Moorhead Public Service Department: The City Council finds
that a recent expansion of the Municipal boundaries of the City has created a
situation where the orderly expansion of the public utility distribution
facilities of the Moorhead Public Service Department is required into areas of
the City where facilities of a certain public utility are located.
   B.   No Public Utility Expansion Without Franchise: The City Council further
finds that in order to prevent further unnecessary duplication of public
utility distribution facilities, higher costs to the customers of both the
Moorhead Public Service Department and the previously referenced public
utility, installation of public utility facilities not constructed to the
minimum standards established by the Moorhead Public Service Department,
conservation of public right of way, and preservation of aesthetics by
elimination of unnecessary public utility facilities, and to provide for an
orderly process of Municipal planning, it is necessary to prohibit the further
expansion of public utilities within the corporate limits of the City unless
such expansion is done pursuant to the terms and conditions of a franchise
granted by the City. (Ord. 89-28, 1-22-1990)
1-8A-2: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the powers of the City as set forth in
section 1.02 and chapter 10 of the City Charter and is intended to be
consistent with the right of the City, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section
216B.36, to regulate certain activities of public utilities occupying the
streets and other public ways of the City. It is intended that, by adopting the
provisions of this Chapter, the economic welfare of the citizens of the City
and the customers of the Moorhead Public Service Department, as well as the
customers of public utilities serving customers in the City, will be protected.
Further, it is intended to promote the general health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the City by providing for orderly growth and efficient planning
for the expansion of all Municipal services, including the provision of public
services at retail.
1-8A-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
CUSTOMER: A person contracting for or purchasing utility service at retail from
a public utility.
PERSON: A natural person, a partnership, private corporation, a public
corporation, an association, a cooperative whether incorporated or not, or two
(2) or more persons having a joint or common interest.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A person or entity operating, maintaining, or controlling
within the City equipment or facilities for providing public utility service at
retail and which falls within the definition of "public utility" as that term
is described in Minnesota Statutes, section 216B.02, subdivision 4, and
includes a cooperative electric utility association organized under the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 308A producing or furnishing natural,
manufactured, or mixed gas or electric service.
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE: Public utility service furnished to a customer at
retail for ultimate consumption, but does not include wholesale natural,
manufactured, or mixed gas or electricity furnished by a public utility to
another public utility for resale.
1-8A-4: EXTENSION OF FACILITIES PROHIBITED:
Following the adoption of this Chapter, no public utility serving a customer
within the City may serve any new customer by means of the extension of an
existing public utility line, or by means of the upgrading of existing public
utility service distribution facilities, until the public utility has obtained
a franchise from the City as provided in chapter 5 of the City Charter.
1-8A-5: EXEMPTIONS:
This Chapter will not be deemed to prevent a public utility already serving a
customer on the effective date of this Chapter from:
   A.   Continuing to serve said customer until the City has acquired the right
to do so under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 216B.44 or
Minnesota Statutes, section 216B.45.
   B.   Repairing or maintaining public utility lines and distribution
facilities already in place as necessary in order to maintain reliable service.
   C.   Extending public lines and distribution facilities within the City for
the sole purpose of facilitating service to existing or new customers located
outside of the Municipal boundaries of the City.
1-8A-6: ENFORCEMENT:
In addition to any criminal provisions provided for herein, the City Attorney
is empowered to enforce the provisions of this Chapter by initiation of a
proceeding seeking equitable or other appropriate relief in the name of the
City in the District Court of the Seventh Judicial District in Clay County,
Minnesota, against any violator, including a customer of any violator.
1-8A-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, including an officer, employee or agent of a public utility who
violates the provisions of this Chapter, upon conviction will be guilty of a
misdemeanor and penalized in accordance with Section
1-4-2 of the City Code. Each violation shall be deemed to be a separate
offense, and each day's continuance of said violation shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense, and may be punished accordingly. (Ord. 89-28, 1-
22-90)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Cash Reserves
1-9A-1: CASH RESERVES:
   A.   Fund Cash Reserve Requirements: On June 30 of each fiscal year, the
general fund and the park fund of the City shall each have and maintain a cash
reserve of forty percent (40%) of the current year's budget, and the enterprise
funds shall have and maintain a cash reserve of twenty five percent (25%) of
the current year's budget. In the event such cash reserve for each such fund is
below the required amount set forth herein, the next following year's budget of
each such fund shall contain provisions to eliminate the cash reserve deficit
required herein.
   B.   Term of Reserve Establishment: The establishment of reserves shall be
over a period of five (5) years. Any emergency expenditures that cause a
depletion of reserves shall re-establish a five (5) year time period to rebuild
the reserves. (Ord. 604, 2-7-77)
ARTICLE B. HOUSING FINANCE PROGRAMS
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Authority and Construction
1-9B-2: Purpose
1-9B-3: Considerations
1-9B-4: Definitions
1-9B-5: Housing Finance Programs
1-9B-6: Loan Standards and Requirements
1-9B-7: Evidence of Compliance
1-9B-8: Issuance of Bonds
1-9B-9: Amendment Restrictions
1-9B-1: AUTHORITY AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Authority: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, chapters 462C and 273 as
such statutes may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, the
City is authorized to develop and administer programs to finance the
construction of new and the improvement of existing housing, and the purchase
of either located anywhere within its boundaries, for occupancy primarily by
persons of low and moderate income and to provide the needed mortgage credit
and promulgate regulations therefor. In establishing housing finance programs
hereunder, the Council is acting in all respects for the benefit of the
citizens of the City and to serve the public purposes set forth in Section
1-9B-2 in improving and otherwise promoting their health, welfare and
prosperity.
   B.   Construction: This Chapter shall be construed in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes, sections 645.16 through 645.20. This Chapter shall not,
however, be construed to authorize or permit anything not authorized or
permitted under Federal or State law or regulations.
1-9B-2: PURPOSE:
The Council finds and determines that preservation of the quality of life in
the City is dependent upon the maintenance, pro- vision and preservation of an
adequate housing stock; that accomplishing this is a public purpose; that there
are many housing units in the City, some of which can be rehabilitated, that do
not meet the applicable housing codes; that a need exists to provide in a
timely fashion affordable housing to persons of low and moderate income
residing and expected to reside in the City; that a need exists for mortgage
credit to be made available for new construction; that refinancing existing
mortgages will allow owners of housing units which need rehabilitation to take
advantage of existing rehabilitation programs; and that many owners, would-be
purchasers or providers of housing units are unable to either afford mortgage
credit at market rate of interest or obtain mortgage credit because the
mortgage credit market is severely restricted.
1-9B-3: CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   In developing the programs authorized hereunder, the Council has
considered:
      1.   The housing needs of the City and the data demonstrating those
needs;
      2.   The plan of the City to meet its identified housing needs, and the
specific methods to be used to carry out the plan;
      3.   Target areas for each method;
      4.   The financing program or programs to be included in the plan;
      5.   The number and qualifications of lenders eligible to participate in
the programs;
      6.   The estimated amount of mortgage loans to be made or purchased in
each program and the estimated amounts and timing of the sale of revenue bonds
required to finance such loans, fund the appropriate reserves and pay the costs
of issuance;
      7.   Methods for monitoring the implementation by participants to insure
that the programs will be consistent with the plan and its objectives;
      8.   The administrative capacity of the City to monitor and supervise
housing finance programs;
      9.   The cost to the City, including administrative costs; and
      10.   An analysis of how the programs will meet the needs of low and
moderate income families in the City.
   B.   The Council has also considered:
      1.   The availability and affordability of other governmental programs;
      2.   The availability and affordability of private market financing for
rehabilitation and new constructions;
      3.   Whether refinancing existing mortgages will enable rehabilitation of
housing units under a State or local housing rehabilitation program;
      4.   The need for rehabilitating housing units acquired from governmental
bodies and agencies;
      5.   The need for additional mortgage credit to encourage the purchase of
rehabilitated housing units from governmental bodies and agencies; and
      6.   The need for additional mortgage credit to encourage the purchase of
housing units which are located on property which governmental bodies or
agencies have acquired and made suitable for housing construction.
1-9B-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, when used in this Article, shall have the following
meanings:
ACT: Minnesota Statutes, chapters 273 and 462C, as now in effect and as the
same may be from time to time amended.
BONDS: The revenue bonds authorized under this Article and shall include notes
and any and all other limited obligations payable as provided hereunder.
BUILDER or DEVELOPER: Any person or business entity engaged in the construction
(or construction and sale) of housing units.
CITY: The City of Moorhead, County of Clay, State of Minnesota.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Moorhead.
HOUSING UNIT: A private detached or attached owner-occupied single- family
dwelling, a townhouse dwelling, a dwelling unit under condominium ownership or
apartment unit (but not including a mobile home or trailer even if attached to
a permanent foundation) containing complete living facilities and facilities
functionally related and subordinate thereto, and located within the
geographical boundaries of the City.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, trust company, savings bank, national banking
association, savings and loan association, building and loan association,
mortgage bank or other financial institution or governmental agency which
customarily makes or services mortgage loans on single-family or multi-family
residential housing which housing is located in the City, or any holding
company for any of the foregoing.
MORTGAGE LOAN: An interest-bearing loan to a mortgagor for the purpose of
purchasing or rehabilitating (and, when applicable, refinancing) one or more
housing units, evidenced by a promissory note and secured by a mortgage on such
housing unit.
MORTGAGOR: An individual or individuals who have received a mortgage loan or,
as appropriate, who have applied for a mortgage loan.
ORIGINATOR: A lending institution which agrees in writing with the City to
originate mortgage loans pursuant to a program.
PROGRAM: Any housing finance program authorized and to be implemented by the
City pursuant to this Article.
PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR OR ADMINISTRATOR: Any lending institution which agrees in
writing with the City to monitor originators' origination of the mortgage loans
which have been sold to the City, to service all mortgage loans which have been
sold to the City, and to perform such other functions as are agreed upon by
such program administrator and the City.
TARGET AREA: A development district established pursuant to Minnesota Statutes,
section 472A.03, a redevelopment project established pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, section 462.521, an industrial development district established
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 458.191, or any area or structure which
the Council finds, by resolution, qualifies under any of said statutes, as such
targeted areas may exist on the date of this Article, or as may hereafter be
established by the City; provided, however, that no target area may be located
in any previously unincorporated area annexed by the City pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, chapter 414 within one year prior to the adoption of the resolution
authorizing a program pursuant to the Act and this Article.
1-9B-5: HOUSING FINANCE PROGRAMS:
The City may establish programs to make, acquire or contract and enter into
advance commitments to acquire mortgage loans upon such terms and conditions as
shall be determined by the Council, to make and execute contracts with lending
institutions for the origination and servicing of mortgage loans, to make and
execute a contract with a program administrator for the monitoring of the
origination and servicing of mortgage loans and to pay the reasonable value of
services rendered under such contracts. In establishing and carrying out any
such program, the City may exercise within the corporate limits of the City any
and all of the powers authorized under the provisions of the Act or under the
powers conferred on the City by Minnesota Statutes, sections 462C.01 through
462C.08, inclusive, or as such sections may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced.
1-9B-6: LOAN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The following standards and requirements shall apply with respect to mortgage
loans made or acquired by the City pursuant to a program:
   A.   Mortgage loans shall be made, accepted and processed with respect to
any applicants with an executed agreement for the purchase, construction or
rehabilitation of housing units on a nondiscriminatory "first-come, first-
served" basis, subject to the provisions of any program agreement, resolution
or other document specifically approved by the Council;
   B.   Each housing unit must be used only for residential purposes;
   C.   No housing unit may be in violation of applicable zoning ordinances 1
or other applicable land use regulations, including any urban renewal plan or
development district plan;
   D.   Each housing unit must be located within the corporate limits of the
City;
   E.   The amount paid by a mortgagor for a housing unit, or group of housing
units in the case of rental property, may include an amount necessary to pay
special assessments levied by the City and of record upon such housing unit;
   F.   No mortgage loan shall be made to a mortgagor who has an application
pending to receive or has received a mortgage loan from the City or a lending
institution pursuant to a program;
   G.   No mortgage loan shall be made unless at the time of application for
such mortgage loan, financing is not otherwise available from lending
institutions upon terms and conditions which are as favorable as those
available from the City or lending institutions acting pursuant to a program;
and
   H.   Mortgage loans for housing units consisting of multi-family rental
property shall be considered, processed and made pursuant to then applicable
City guidelines or resolutions pertaining to financing undertaken by the City
under Minnesota Statutes, chapter 474.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
1-9B-7: EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE:
The City may require from any participant in a program authorized under this
Article, at or before the time an agreement is entered into by each such
participant, evidence satisfactory to the City of the ability and intention of
such participant to comply with the standards and requirements established by
the City for the related program and in any agreement entered into between the
City and the participant; and in connection therewith, the City or its
representatives may inspect the relevant books and records of each such
participant in order to confirm such ability, intention and compliance.
1-9B-8: ISSUANCE OF BONDS:
To finance the programs authorized by this Article, the Council may, by
resolution, authorize, issue and sell one or more series of bonds, which bonds
shall be payable solely from the revenues of the programs authorized by this
Article. For each such series of bonds, the City shall enter into an indenture
of trust with an institution authorized to accept such trusts, upon such terms
and conditions as the Council shall determine, being advised therein by bond
counsel. In issuing bonds pursuant to this Article, the City may exercise
within the corporate limits of the City any and all of the same powers as the
Minnesota Housing Finance Agency is authorized to exercise under the provisions
of Minnesota Statutes, chapter 462A. The City shall not issue any bond secured
by mortgages on single-family residences unless the mortgage lenders
originating the mortgages have made, or entered into, binding commitments to
make mortgage loans in an aggregate principal amount equal to the sums
deposited, or to be deposited, for such purpose, with the trustee for the
bondholders.
1-9B-9: AMENDMENT RESTRICTIONS:
The City shall not amend the provisions contained in this Article and in effect
at the time any bonds or obligations authorized hereby are issued, to the
detriment of the holders of such bonds. (Ord. 728, 10-22-80)
ARTICLE C. LODGING TAX
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Tax Imposed
1-9C-2: Collection Of Tax
1-9C-3: Disposition Of Revenues From Tax
1-9C-1: TAX IMPOSED:
The city herewith imposes a tax of three percent (3%) on the gross receipts
from the furnishing for consideration of lodging at a motel, hotel, rooming
house, tourist court or other use of space by a transient within the city,
other than the renting or leasing of such space for a continuous period of
thirty (30) days or more. In the case of a rental for a continuous period of
thirty (30) days or more, resulting in lodging tax exemption, occupancy must be
by the same person or persons for the entire period.
The tax authorized herewith shall be the obligation of the operator of any such
motel, hotel, rooming house, tourist court or other space used by a transient
and shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the operator extinguishable
only by payment to the city. (Ord. 2005-21, 8-15-2005)
1-9C-2: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   The tax shall be collected by such operator at the time the payment for
such lodging is made and shall be remitted to the city within ten (10) days
after the end of the month within which such tax is collected.
   B.   City administrative regulations shall be established to effect the
collection of such tax, and any interest and penalties thereon.
   C.   Any operator failing to make payment within ten (10) days specified
within subsection A of this section shall be required to pay a penalty of five
percent (5%) of the tax amount remaining unpaid, and thereafter an additional
penalty of ten percent (10%) if the tax is not paid within thirty (30) days
thereafter. In addition, interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum
shall be paid in addition to such penalties on the amount of tax remaining
unpaid until such tax shall have been paid in full.
The city attorney is authorized to commence such legal action as is necessary
to collect all taxes, interest and penalties due hereunder. (Ord. 773, 8-15-
1983)
1-9C-3: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES FROM TAX:
At least ninety five percent (95%) of the gross proceeds derived from the tax
imposed by this article shall be used by the city to fund its local convention
and tourism bureau for the purposes of marketing and promoting the city as a
tourist and convention center, with the balance of the gross proceeds to be
used to provide reimbursement for administrative costs of collection and
administration of the tax by the city. (Ord. 773, 8-15-1983)
ARTICLE D. RURAL AND URBAN TAXING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Taxing Districts Established
1-9D-2: Urban Service District
1-9D-3: Rural Service District
1-9D-4: Benefits Tax Ratio
1-9D-5: Modification Of Districts
1-9D-1: TAXING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city of Moorhead is hereby divided into an urban service district and a
rural service district pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 272.67 for the
purpose of all municipal property taxes, except those levied for the payment of
bonds and judgments and interest thereon and any other taxed services as
determined by the city and as represented in the benefits tax ratio. (Ord.
2013-5, 3-25-2013)
1-9D-2: URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT:
The urban service district shall include all property within the limits of the
city of Moorhead, except those set forth by ordinance as part of the rural
service district. (Ord. 2013-5, 3-25-2013)
1-9D-3: RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT:
The rural service district shall include the following unplatted lands,
identified by their legal descriptions, which are not developed for commercial,
industrial, or urban residential purposes, and for these reasons are not
benefited to the same degree as other lands by municipal services financed by
general taxation:
Parcel 58-882-3407: Sect-17 Twp-140 Range-048 13.86 AC BEG. 1970' E OF SW
CORNER; N 1430.5'; E 761'; S 1084.5'; SW ALONG RD. TO BEG. LESS 8.0 A LESS ROAD
Parcel 58-882-4401: Sect-17 Twp-140 Range-048 6.00 AC S 200 FT. OF GOVT. LOT 2
Parcel 58-887-2250: Sect-28 Twp-140 Range-048 14.50 AC LOT 1 LESS ROAD & 7.55
AC
Parcel 58-885-4400: Sect-20 Twp-140 Range-048 39.45 AC GOVT. LOT 5 LESS 6.34 A.
Parcel 58-886-3400: Sect-21 Twp-140 Range-048 28.00 AC SE1/4 SW1/4 LESS RR &
8.44 AC.
Parcel 58-885-0402: Sect-20 Twp-140 Range-048 17.85 AC LOT B OF GOVT. LOT 4
Parcel 58-885-0401: Sect-20 Twp-140 Range-048 17.85 AC LOT A OF GOV LOT 4
Parcel 58-886-2504: Sect-21 Twp-140 Range-048 18.42 AC TRACT A OF GOV'T LOT 1
Parcel 58-885-1100: Sect-20 Twp-140 Range-048 20.00 AC GOVT. LOT 3
Parcel 58-883-4885: Sect-18 Twp-140 Range-048 20.02 AC N1/2 E1/2 E1/2 SE1/
4 LESS .13 AC.
Parcel 58-883-4887: Sect-18 Twp-140 Range-48 18.48 AC N1/2 W1/2 E1/2 SE1/4 LESS
1.52 AC
Parcel 58-883-1600: Sect-18 Twp-140 Range-048 55.74 AC W1/2 NE1/4 LESS SRLY
24.26 AC.
Parcel 58-883-2100: Sect-18 Twp-140 Range-048 29.00 AC GOVT. LOT 2 LESS TRACT &
N 140' OF OUTLOT 18-G
Parcel 58-883-2200: Sect-18 Twp-140 Range-048 27.10 AC LOT 1
Parcel 58-881-3000: The South 754 feet of the SW 1/4 of Section 16, Township
140, Range 48 LESS: A strip of land for highway purposes located in the SW 1/
4 of Section 16, in Township 140 North of Range 48 West, said strip of land
lies between the West Right-of-Way line of the Burlington Northern Railway and
the East Right-of-Way line of County Road No. 96 and lies 60 feet South of and
60 feet North of a line that is described as follows: Beginning at a point on
the centerline of Trunk Highway No. 75 located 722.67 feet North of the
intersection of said centerline with the South line of section 16, in Township
140 North of Range 48 West; thence North 89°12'20" West a distance of 224.83
feet to a point of beginning that lies on the West Right-of-Way line of the
Burlington Northern Railway; thence continuing North 89°12'20" West a distance
of 1600.82 feet to the east Right- of-Way line of County Road No. 96 and there
terminating. LESS: that part of the SW 1/4 of Section 16, in Township 140
North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota,
described as follows; The West 58.00 feet of said SW 1/4, lying Southerly of
the Southerly Right-of- Way Line of County Road 22 and lying North of the South
459.32 feet of said SW 1/4; AND, The East 117.00 feet of the West 175 feet of
said SW 1/4 lying Southerly of the Southerly Right-of-Way line of County Road
22 and lying North of the South 647.39 feet of the SW 1/4 AND, The East 150.00
feet of the West 325.00 feet of said SW 1/4, lying Southerly of the Southerly
Right-of-Way Line of County Road 22 and lying North of the South 708.00 feet of
said SW 1/4.
(Ord. 2015-2, 2-9-2015)
Parcel 58-900-1508: The East 377.88 feet of the Southeast Quarter of the
Southeast Quarter (SE1/4SE1/4) of Section 21, Township 139 North, Range 48
West, Clay County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-2310: TRACT ONE: A certain tract of land located in the Southwest
One-Quarter of Section 23, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth
Principal Meridian, more particularly described as follows: Beginning at a
point which lies on the West line of said Section 23 at a distance of 628.11
feet South of the point of intersection of said West Section line with the
Southwest Right-of-Way line of Trunk Highway 52; thence South along the said
West line of said Section 23 a distance of 122.11 feet; thence North 71°55'
East a distance of 465.74 feet to a point of intersection with the Southwest
Right-of-Way line of Trunk Highway 52; thence Northwesterly along said
Southwest Right- of-Way line a distance of 122.11 feet; thence South 71°55'
West a distance of 389.93 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning. Said
tract of land contains 1.147 acres, more or less, and is subject to a 50 foot
road easement along the West line of said tract. AND TRACT TWO: A certain tract
of land located in the Southwest One-Quarter of Section 23, Township 139 North,
Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal Meridian, more particularly described as
follows: Beginning at a point of intersection of the Southwest Right-of-Way
line of Trunk Highway 52 and the West line of said Section 23; thence South
along the West line of said Section 23 a distance of 628.11 feet; thence North
71°55' East a distance of 389.93 feet to a point of intersection with the said
Southwest Right-of-Way line of Trunk Highway 52; thence Northwesterly along
said Southwest Trunk Highway Right-of- Way line a distance of 628.11 feet to
the Point of Beginning. Said tract of land contains 2.672 acres, more or less,
and is subject to a 50 feet road easement along the West line of said tract.
Parcel 58-900-1729: The South Half of the Southeast Quarter (S1/2SE1/4) and the
Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE1/4SW1/4) and Government Lots 3,
4 and 5, all in Section 30, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth
Principal Meridian, less 122.08 acres.
Parcel 58-900-1726: That part of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4) of Section 29,
Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota, lying South of the
South right-of- way line of 46th Avenue South, lying East of the East right-
of-way line of River Haven Road South and lying North of the North right-of-way
line of 50th Avenue South, EXCEPTING THEREFROM the record plats of Hampton
Place First Addition and Hampton Place Second Addition to the City of Moorhead
and also excepting that part of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4) of Section 29,
Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota, described as
follows: Commencing at the found iron monument at the Southwest corner of
Section 29; thence North 00°00'04" West along the West line of said section for
a distance of 1,823.68 feet; thence North 89°59'56" East 33.00 feet to the
point of beginning of the tract to be described; thence North 00°00'04" West
60.00 feet; thence North 89°59'56" East 55.00 feet; thence South 00°00'04" East
60.00 feet; thence South 89°59'56" West 55.00 feet to the point of beginning;
and also excepting that part of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4) of Section 29,
Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota, described as
follows: Beginning at the Northwestern corner of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4)
of said Section 29, thence Easterly 910.00 feet along the said quarter line of
Section 29; thence Southerly a distance of 33.00 feet to the true point of
beginning; thence continue Southerly a distance of 42.00 feet; thence continue
Westerly and parallel to said quarter line a distance of 835.00 feet to a point
75.00 feet East of the West section line of said Section 29; thence
Southwesterly at a 45° angle to said quarter line for a distance of 35.35 feet
to a point 100.00 feet South of the quarter line and 50.00 feet East of the
West section line of said Section 29; thence continue Southerly and parallel to
said West section line a distance of 460.00 feet; thence continue Westerly a
distance of 17.00 feet to a point 33.00 feet East of the West section line;
thence continue Northerly and parallel to said section line a distance of
527.00 feet, to a point on the South right-of-way line of 46th Avenue South;
thence continue Easterly a distance of 877.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Parcel 58-900-3000: That part of the South Half (S1/2) of the Southeast Quarter
(SE1/4) of Section 30, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal
Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota, described as follows, to-wit: Beginning at
the Southeast corner of said Section 30; thence North 00°00'32" West on an
assumed bearing along the East line of said Section 30 a distance of 936.23
feet to the South line of the plat of Tessa Terrace Second Addition to the City
of Moorhead, Minnesota, according to the recorded plat thereof, Clay County,
Minnesota; thence South 89°59'56" West along said South line a distance of
826.03 feet; thence South 34°11'09" West continuing along said South line a
distance of 81.66 feet; thence South 42°39'15" West along said South line a
distance of 166.25 feet; thence South 69°02'04" West along said South line a
distance of 230.59 feet to the centerline of creek; thence Southerly along said
creek centerline on the following courses; thence South 20°57'56" East a
distance of 168.04 feet; thence South 09°43'56" East a distance of 272.17 feet;
thence South 03°16'11" East a distance of 235.42 feet to the South line of said
Section 30; thence South 89°48'17" East along said South line a distance of
1,080.47 feet to the point of beginning.
Parcel 58-900-2860: A parcel of land located in Northwest Quarter (NW1/4),
Section 31, Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota more
particularly described as follows: Beginning at the Northeast corner of said
Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 31; thence South 00 degrees 23 minutes 54
seconds East, on an assumed bearing on the East line of said Northwest Quarter
(NW1/4) a distance of 2634.32 feet to the Southeast corner of said Northwest
Quarter (NW1/4); thence South 89 degrees 55 minutes 50 seconds West on the
South line of said Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) a distance of 2410.01 feet; thence
North 02 degrees 09 minutes 29 seconds West a distance of 688.22 feet; thence
North 90 degrees 00 minutes 00 seconds East a distance of 56.29 feet; thence
North 41 degrees 16 minutes 20 seconds East a distance of 209.86 feet; thence
North 69 degrees 04 minutes 09 seconds East a distance of 359.30 feet; thence
South 87 degrees 49 minutes 34 seconds East a distance of 461.41 feet; thence
North 73 degrees 13 minutes 39 seconds East a distance of 348.63 feet; thence
North 51 degrees 19 minutes 28 seconds East a distance of 383.68 feet; thence
North 31 degrees 56 minutes 52 seconds East a distance of 466.00 feet; thence
North 59 degrees 09 minutes 52 seconds East a distance of 310.77 feet; thence
North 00 degrees 46 minutes 15 seconds East a distance of 297.41 feet; thence
North 20 degrees 41 minutes 42 seconds East a distance of 255.78 feet; thence
North 05 degrees 49 minutes 42 seconds West a distance of 250.17 feet; thence
North 89 degrees 56 minutes 02 seconds East a distance of 210.46 feet to the
point of beginning. Less the North 75 feet of the above described parcel.
Containing 71.73 acres more or less.
Parcel 58-900-2859: A parcel of land located in Northwest Quarter (NW1/4),
Section 31, Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota, more
particularly described as follows: Commencing at the Northeast corner of the
Northwest Quarter of said Northwest Quarter (NW1/4NW1/4) of Section 31; thence
North 89 degrees 56 minutes 02 seconds East, on an assumed bearing on the North
line of said Northwest Quarter (NW1/4), a distance of 52.43 feet to the point
of beginning; thence continuing along said North line North 89 degrees 56
minutes 02 seconds East a distance of 1055.39 feet; thence South 05 degrees 49
minutes 42 seconds East for a distance of 250.17 feet; thence South 20 degrees
41 minutes 42 seconds West a distance of 255.78 feet; thence South 00 degrees
46 minutes 15 seconds West a distance of 297.41 feet; thence South 59 degrees
09 minutes 52 seconds West a distance of 310.77 feet; thence South 31 degrees
56 minutes 52 seconds West a distance of 466.00 feet; thence South 51 degrees
19 minutes 28 seconds West a distance of 383.68 feet; thence South 73 degrees
13 minutes 39 seconds West a distance of 178.57 feet; thence North 00 degrees
05 minutes 11 seconds West a distance of 1096.12 feet, thence North 00 degrees
03 minutes 13 seconds West a distance of 287.20 feet; thence North 00 degrees
07 minutes 29 seconds West a distance of 247.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Less the North 75 feet of the above described parcel.
Parcel 58-900-1730: The Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SE1/4NW1/4)
of Section 29, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, except road and
West 400 feet and except Allyson Parkway Third, Fourth and Fifth Additions.
Parcel 58-900-2800: The South Half of the Northwest Quarter (S1/2NW1/4) of
Section 29, Township 139 North, Range 49 West, less railroad and 35.16 acres.
Parcel 58-900-2855: The South Half of the Northeast Quarter (S1/2NE1/4) of
Section 28, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., Clay County,
Minnesota, LESS the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter (SE1/4SE1/4NE1/4).
Parcel 58-900-2854: The South Half of the Northwest Quarter (S1/2NW1/4) of
Section 27, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-1704: The North Half of the Northeast Quarter (N1/2NE1/4) of
Section 27, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, LESS Evergreen
Meadows 1st Addition and Evergreen Meadows Corner Addition and 20.19 acres.
Parcel 58-900-2852: The South Half of the Northeast Quarter (S1/2NE1/4) of
Section 27, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less 3 acres.
Parcel 58-900-1748: The North Half of the Northwest Quarter (N1/2NW1/4) of
Section 27, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less 28.82 acres.
Parcel 58-900-1501: The North 1600 feet of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of
Section 23, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less highway and
3.69 acres.
Parcel 58-900-1509: The Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 23, Township 139,
Range 49, Clay County, Minnesota, less the North 1600 feet.
Parcel 58-900-1062: Part of the South Half (S1/2) East of highway, less 127.18
acres, ditch and road in Section 15, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County,
Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0929: The North 120 acres of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of
Section 14, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less 45.99 acres.
Parcel 58-900-0919: The Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4SW1/4)
of Section 11, Township 139 North, Range 48 West, Clay County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0922: The South Half (S1/2) and the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4)
South of railroad right-of-way, less ditch, 36.44 acres and less Meadows First,
Second, Third and Fourth Additions and Kendall's First and Second Additions,
all in Section 10, Township 139, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0925: The Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NW1/4SW1/4)
of Section 11, Township 139 North of Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., situate in
the County of Clay and the State of Minnesota, EXCEPTING THEREFROM all that
portion of the following described tract which lies within the Northwest
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NW1/4SW1/4) of said Section 11, said
exception reads as follows: That part of the West Half of said Section 11,
Township 139 North of Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., situate in the County of
Clay and the State of Minnesota, described as follows: Beginning at a point
which lies 53.32 feet South and 60.00 feet East of the West quarter corner of
said Section 11; thence East along a line which is perpendicular to the West
line of said Section 11 a distance of 235.73 feet; thence North along a line
which is parallel to said West Section line a distance of 184.79 feet; thence
West along a line which is perpendicular to said West Section line a distance
of 235.73 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection with the East right-
of-way line of Clay County Highway 81, said right-of-way line being parallel to
and 60.00 feet East of the West line of said Section 11; thence South along the
last-described right-of-way line a distance of 184.79 feet, more or less, to
the point of beginning. The North 131.47 feet of said tract is contained in
Auditor's Outlot A-11 to the city of Dilworth.
Parcel 58-900-0920: The South Half (S1/2) and Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) Less
tracts and railroad; and North 2.60 acres of North Half (N1/2), Southeast
Quarter (SE1/4) of Section 10, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth
Principal Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota, more particularly described as
follows: That portion of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of Section 10, Township
139 North, Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., Clay County, Minnesota, more fully
described as follows: Beginning at the Northeast corner of the Southeast
Quarter (SE1/4) of Section 10, Township 139 North, Range 48 West, thence South
0°00'00" West for a distance of 42.5 feet; thence South 89°18'00" West along a
line parallel to the East-West quarter line of said Southeast Quarter (SE1/4)
for a distance of 2,661.05 feet; thence North 0°08'15" West 42.5 feet, more or
less, to the center of Section 10; thence North 89°18'00" East along said East-
West quarter line for a distance of 2,661.05 feet, more or less, to the point
of beginning. AND the South Half of the Northeast Quarter (S1/2NE1/4) of
Section 10, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal Meridian
LESS the following described tracts: 1) Beginning at the center of said Section
10; thence North along the line between the NW1/4 and NE1/4 of said Section 10
for a distance of 1,415 feet; thence in an Easterly direction at right angles
16.5 feet; thence Southerly along a line and parallel to and 16.5 feet distant
from the quarter line 990.3 feet; then Easterly at right angles 150 feet;
thence Southerly at right angles 424.7 feet; then Westerly 166.5 feet to the
point of beginning. 2) Beginning at a point on the East line of said Section
10, said point of beginning being located 2,873.90 feet North of the Southeast
corner of said Section 10; thence West perpendicular to the East line of
Section 10 a distance of 260 feet; thence North parallel to the East line of
Section 10 a distance of 160 feet; thence East perpendicular to the East line
of Section 10 a distance of 260 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection
with the said East section line; thence South parallel to the said East line of
Section 10 a distance of 160 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning. 3)
Beginning at a point on the East line of said Section 10, said point of
beginning being located 2,715.90 feet North of the Southeast corner of said
Section 10; thence West perpendicular to the East line of said Section 10 a
distance of 260 feet; thence North 158 feet parallel to the East line of said
Section 10; thence East perpendicular to the East line of said Section 10 a
distance of 260 feet, more or less, to a point of intersection with the East
line of said Section 10; thence South along said East line a distance of 158
feet, more or less, to the point of beginning.
Parcel 58-900-0927: The Northeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (NE1/4SW1/4)
of Section 11, Township 139 North of Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., situate in
the County of Clay and the State of Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-3400: The Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE1/4SW1/4)
of Section 11, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the 5th P.M., Clay County,
Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0931: That part of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 14,
Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal Meridian, Clay County,
Minnesota, described as follows: Beginning at the Northwest corner of the
Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of said Section 14; thence South 00°05'39" West
(assumed bearing) along the Westerly line of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of
said Section 14, for a distance of 1,963.82 feet to the Southwest corner of the
Northerly tract of two tracts of land created in Document No. 370769 filed at
the Clay County Recorder's Office; thence South 89°43'45" East, along the
Southerly line of the Northerly tract of two tracts of lands created in said
Document No. 370769, for a distance of 887.00 feet; thence North 00°05'39"
East, parallel with the Westerly line of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of said
Section 14; for a distance of 1,963.82 to a point of intersection with the
northerly line of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of said Section 14; thence
North 89°43'45" West, along the Northerly line of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4)
of said Section 14, for a distance of 887.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Less part for Horizon Shores 7th Addition and less .62 acres for street.
Parcel 58-900-0928: 28.72 acres in the South Half of the South Half of the
Northwest Quarter (S1/2S1/2NW1/4) of Section 14, Township 139, Range 48, Clay
County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0926: The Southwest Quarter (SW1/4) of Section 14, Township 139,
Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less the South 700 feet of the East 881.6
feet and less 31.43 acres and less .81 acres for street.
Parcel 58-900-0096: The Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) less the East 185 feet and
highway in Section 3, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal
Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota.
Parcel 58-900-0200: That portion of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4,
Township 139 North, Range 48 West, bounded on the South by the South line of
said NE1/4; on the North and East by the South and West line of the Right of
Way of County Ditch No. 41; and on the West by the East Right of Way line of
Minnesota Trunk Highway #75 LESS the following described parcels (Parcel A and
Parcel B): Parcel A: A parcel of land located in the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4)
of Section 4, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth Principal
Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota, more particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the Southwest corner of said Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section
4; thence North 89 degrees 55 minutes 57 seconds East on an assumed bearing on
the South line of said Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4, for a distance
of 978.87 feet to the point of beginning; thence North 27 degrees 12 minutes 22
seconds East for a distance of 55.25 feet; thence Northeasterly 342.33 feet on
the arc of a circular curve, concave to the Southeast, having a radius of
475.00 feet, a central angle of 41 degrees 17 minutes 33 seconds and the long
chord of which bears North 47 degrees 51 minutes 09 seconds West for a distance
of 334.97 feet to a point on the West right of way line of Clay County Ditch
Number 41; thence South 36 degrees 11 minutes 32 seconds East along said West
right of way line for a distance of 114.92 feet; thence Southwesterly 290.76
feet on the arc of a circular curve, concave to the Southeast, having a radius
of 365.00 feet, a central angle of 45 degrees 38 minutes 32 seconds, and the
long chord of which bears South 50 degrees 15 minutes 27 seconds West for a
distance of 283.13 feet to a point on the South line of said Northeast Quarter
(NE1/4) of Section 4; thence South 89 degrees 55 minutes 57 seconds West on
said South line, for a distance of 123.76 feet to the point of beginning.
Containing 37,851 square feet more or less and subject to all easements and
rights of way of record. PARCEL B: A parcel of land located in the Northeast
Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4, Township 139 North, Range 48 West of the Fifth
Principal Meridian, Clay County, Minnesota, more particularly described as
follows: Commencing at the Southwest corner of said Northeast Quarter (NE1/4)
of Section 4; thence North 89 degrees 55 minutes 57 seconds East on an assumed
bearing on the South line of said Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4, for a
distance of 1102.63 feet to the point of beginning; thence Northeasterly 290.76
feet on the arc of a circular curve, concave to the Southeast, having a radius
of 365.00 feet, a central angle of 45 degrees 38 minutes 32 seconds and the
long chord of which bears North 50 degrees 15 minutes 27 seconds East for a
distance of 283.13 feet to a point on the West right of way line of Clay County
Ditch Number 41; thence South 36 degrees 11 minutes 32 seconds East along said
West right of way line for a distance of 223.79 feet to a point on the South
line of said Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 4; thence South 89 degrees 55
minutes 57 seconds West on said South line, for a distance of 349.86 feet to
the point of beginning. Containing 37,057 square feet more or less and subject
to all easements and rights of way of record.
Parcel 58-900-0170: The Northeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 139, Range 48,
Clay County, Minnesota, less railroad right of way and ditch right of way and
less 103.55 acres and less 3.07 acres for road.
Parcel 58-900-1983: The South Half of the Southwest Quarter (S1/2SW1/4) of
Section 34, Township 140, Range 48, Clay County, Minnesota, less 22.50 acres.
(Ord. 2013-5, 3-25-2013)
1-9D-4: BENEFITS TAX RATIO:
The city determines the ratio between the benefits resulting from tax supported
municipal services to parcels of land of like market value, situated in the
rural service district and in the urban service district, respectively, is
55.3:100 or 0.553. The city may adjust the ratio or the urban and service
districts at its discretion. If the ratio of 0.553 changes to be less than 0.52
or more than 0.59, the city may adjust the ratio accordingly. (Ord. 2013-5, 3-
25-2013)
1-9D-5: MODIFICATION OF DISTRICTS:
By amendment of this article, land may be added to or removed from the rural
service district.
Land in the rural service district shall be designated as urban by the city
council in any of the following circumstances:
Whenever any parcel of land, owned by one person or by two (2) or more persons
jointly or in common at the time of its inclusion in the rural service
district, is:
   A.   Platted and municipal infrastructure is installed or an application is
made for construction of a building on such parcel or any part thereof.
   B.   Parcel of land remains unplatted and either municipal infrastructure is
installed or an application is made for construction of a building.
   C.   A parcel of land is split by minor subdivision. The new parcel or
parcels shall be placed in the urban service district and the remainder of the
parcel or parcels may continue to be in the rural service district so long as
the remainder of the parcel or parcels is not platted or has infrastructure
installed or has a building constructed upon it; any of which shall transfer
the parcel from the rural service district to the urban service district. (Ord.
2013-5, 3-25-2013)
ARTICLE E. STREETLIGHT UTILITY
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Authority And Purpose
1-9E-2: Definitions
1-9E-3: Streetlight Utility Established
1-9E-4: Management Of Streetlight Utility
1-9E-5: Rates, Fees, And Charges
1-9E-6: Streetlight Utility Fund
1-9E-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
Minnesota statutes section 429.021, authorizes cities to install, replace,
extend, and maintain streetlights and street lighting systems and special
lighting systems. Chapter 11 of the Moorhead city charter authorizes the city
to own and operate a public utility. Pursuant to these authorities, the city
council has determined that in order to promote the general health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of Moorhead, it is in the best interest of the citizens
that the city operate and maintain a city streetlight utility. The city council
has further determined that the operation and maintenance of such a utility
benefits each and every property within the city. The city council has
therefore determined that it is fair, appropriate, and reasonable for the costs
of such operation and maintenance to be paid on a fair and reasonable basis by
all of the property in the city so benefited, except those types of property
expressly exempted in section
1-9E-5 of this article, and that said costs should be charged and collected
from all such benefited property as set forth in this article. (Ord. 2014-27,
12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
1-9E-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except as otherwise provided or clearly implied by context, all terms will be
given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply:
STREET LIGHTING FACILITIES: All lands, easements, rights in land, facilities,
poles, wires, cables, conduits, lights, and other electrical fixtures and
equipment necessary for the proper maintenance and operation of street lighting
systems. (Ord. 2014-27, 12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
1-9E-3: STREETLIGHT UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to the authority described in section
1-9E-1 of this article, the city hereby establishes a streetlight utility,
which shall consist of all street lighting facilities owned by the city and all
other street lighting facilities for which the city purchases and supplies
electrical energy. (Ord. 2014-27, 12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
1-9E-4: MANAGEMENT OF STREETLIGHT UTILITY:
The streetlight utility shall be managed, controlled, operated, maintained,
extended, and improved by the city. The city council may adopt and enforce such
rules and regulations as may be necessary to manage and operate the streetlight
utility. (Ord. 2014-27, 12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
1-9E-5: RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES:
   A.   Apportionment: For the reasons set forth in section
1-9E-1 of this article, each and every property within the city shall be
charged for a fair and reasonable share of the cost to provide, operate, and
maintain the streetlight utility within the city. Any rates, fees, or charges
imposed by the city in connection with the operation and maintenance of the
streetlight utility shall be set forth in the city's annual fee schedule and
approved by the city council.
   B.   Billing And Collection: Any rates, fees, or charges imposed by the city
in connection with the operation and maintenance of the streetlight utility
shall be billed and collected by the city in a manner set forth by the city
council. The city council shall have the authority to prescribe rules and
regulations regarding penalties for late payment or unpaid bills.
   C.   Exemptions: Any property owned by the city and all public street rights
of way shall be exempt from any rates, fees, or charges associated with the
streetlight utility. In addition, any newly annexed property for which an
electric service territory buyout agreement has not yet been negotiated and
finalized shall also be exempt from such rates, fees or charges until such time
that an agreement is reached.
   D.   Financial Authority Of City: Nothing in this article shall be construed
as limiting or restricting the city from defraying all or any part of the
expense of the operation of, or of any improvement or extension to, the
streetlight utility by the levy of special assessments or taxes, or by issuing
bonds, whenever and to the extent that such action is authorized in a manner
provided by law. (Ord. 2014-27, 12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
1-9E-6: STREETLIGHT UTILITY FUND:
All monies received by or in connection with the management and operation of
the streetlight utility shall be paid into the city treasury and kept in fund
separate and distinct from other funds, including other utility funds, for
financial and budgeting purposes, and said fund shall be designated the
"streetlight utility fund". (Ord. 2014-27, 12-8-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
ARTICLE F. LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Authority
1-9F-2: Definitions
1-9F-3: City Sales And Use Tax
1-9F-4: Separate Statement; Collection; Advertising No Tax
1-9F-5: Exemption Certificate
1-9F-6: Agent Of Retailer
1-9F-7: Effective Date; Transitional Sales
1-9F-8: Deposit Of Revenues; Administration Costs; Termination Of Tax
1-9F-9: Issuance Of Bonds
1-9F-10: Tax Clearance; Issuance Of Licenses
1-9F-11: Agreement With Commissioner
1-9F-1: AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to Laws of Minnesota 2021, 1st Special Session, chapter 14, article 8,
section 14, the Minnesota Legislature authorized the City to impose a local
sales and use tax to pay the costs of collecting and administering such tax and
to finance the Designated Project in the City. At the general election held on
November 8, 2022, the voters of the City approved the imposition of a sales and
use tax up to one-half of one percent (0.5%) to finance the Designated Project.
On November 14, 2022, the Council, by way of resolutions, canvassed the results
of the general election, accepted the authorization to impose the City Sales
and Use Tax, and directed the filing of a certificate of approval with the
Secretary of State. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words, terms, and phrases used in this Article shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in Minnesota Statutes Chapter 297A, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise. In addition, the following definitions shall
apply:
 
ACT:          Laws of Minnesota 2021, 1st Special Session, chapter 14, article 8, section 14,
              as amended.
CITY:         The City of Moorhead, Clay County, State of Minnesota.
COUNCIL:      The City Council of the City of Moorhead.
CITY SALES    The sales and use taxes imposed and collected pursuant to this Article.
AND USE TAX:
              The Commissioner of the Department of Revenue for the State of Minnesota, acting
COMMISSIONER: under the authority of an agreement entered into between the City and the State
              of Minnesota pursuant to the Act, or such other person designated to administer
              and collect the City Sales and Use Tax.
              The planning, design, construction, and any other capital and administrative
              costs of the following project in an aggregate principal not to exceed thirty
DESIGNATED    one thousand five hundred ninety dollars ($31,590,000) and plus an amount to pay
PROJECT:      interest on and costs of issuing any bonds issued pursuant to the Act:
              A.   Construction of a regional library and community center project, located
              within the City of Moorhead, including site acquisition and all related
              planning, design and construction costs.
STATE SALES   Those provisions of the state revenue laws applicable to state sales and use tax
AND USE TAX   imposition, administration, collection, and enforcement, including Minnesota
AND RULES:    Statutes Chapters 270C, 289A, and 297A and Minnesota Administrative Rules
              Chapter 8130, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
 
1-9F-3: CITY SALES AND USE TAX:
A local sales tax is imposed in the amount of one-half of one percent (1/2%) on
the gross receipts from sales at retail sourced within City limits which are
taxable under the State Sales and Use Tax and Rules. A local use tax is imposed
in the amount of one-half of one percent (1/2%) on the storage, use,
distribution, or consumption of goods or services sourced within City limits
which are taxable under the State Sales and Use Tax and Rules. All of the
provisions of the State Sales and Use Tax and Rules apply to the City Sales and
Use Tax. The City Sales and Use Tax shall be collected and remitted to the
Commissioner on any sale or purchase when the state sales tax must be collected
and remitted to the Commissioner under the State Sales and Use Tax and Rules
and is in addition to the state sales and use tax. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-4: SEPARATE STATEMENT; COLLECTION; ADVERTISING NO TAX:
   A.   The City Sales and Use Tax shall be stated and charged separately from
the sale price or charge for service insofar as practicable and shall be
collected by the seller from the purchaser and shall be a debt from the
purchaser to the seller recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts.
   B.   No retailer in the City shall advertise or state to the public or any
customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the retailer or that it will not be added to the sales
price or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded. (Ord. 2022-
26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-5: EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE:
An exemption certificate taken in good faith from a purchaser to the effect
that the property purchased is for resale or that the sale is otherwise exempt
from the application of the City Sales and Use Tax will conclusively relieve
the retailer from collecting or remitting the City Sales and Use Tax. A person
who has obtained from the Commissioner an exemption certificate pursuant to
State Sales and Use Tax and Rules may use such exemption certificate for the
purposes of the City Sales and Use Tax. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-6: AGENT OF RETAILER:
When, in the opinion of the Commissioner, it is necessary for the efficient
administration of the City Sales and Use Tax, the Commissioner may regard any
salesman, representative, trucker, peddler, or canvasser as the agent of the
dealer, distributor, supervisor, employer, or other person under whom such
salesman, representative, trucker, peddler, or canvasser operates or from whom
the tangible personal property being sold is obtained and may regard the
dealer, distributor, supervisor, employer, or other person as a retailer for
the purposes of this Article. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-7: EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSITIONAL SALES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Sales and Use Tax shall apply to
sales and purchases made on or after April 1, 2023. The City Sales and Use Tax
shall not apply to:
   A.   The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of tangible personal
property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract, which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto, provided that such
contract was enforceable prior to April 1, 2023, and that delivery of the
tangible personal property subject thereto is made on or before April 1, 2023.
   B.   The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to a bona fide lump
sum or fixed price construction contract, which unconditionally vests the
rights and obligations of the parties thereto and which does not make provision
or allocation of future taxes, provided that such contract was enforceable
prior to April 1, 2023, and that delivery of the tangible personal property
used in performing such construction contract is made before April 1, 2023.
   C.   The purchase of taxable services, including utility services, if the
billing period includes charges for services furnished before and after April
1, 2023, but the City Sales and Use Tax shall apply on the first billing period
not including charges for services furnished before April 1, 2023.
   D.   Lease payments for tangible personal property and motor vehicles that
include a period before and after April 1, 2023, but the City Sales and Use Tax
shall apply on a prorated basis to lease payment amounts attributable to that
portion of the lease payment period on or after April 1, 2023, and on the
entire lease payment for all lease payments thereafter. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-
2022)
1-9F-8: DEPOSIT OF REVENUES; ADMINISTRATION COSTS; TERMINATION OF TAX:
   A.   All of the revenues, interest, and penalties derived from the City
Sales and Use Tax imposed by this Article and collected by the Commissioner and
remitted to the City shall be deposited by the City finance director in the
City treasury and shall be credited to the fund established to pay the costs of
collecting and administering the City Sales and Use Tax and to finance the
capital and administrative costs directly related to completing the Designated
Project in the City.
   B.   The City Sales and Use Tax imposed by this Article shall terminate at
the earlier of: (i) twenty-two (22) years after the City Sales and Use Tax is
imposed; or (ii) when the Council determines that thirty one thousand five
hundred ninety dollars ($31,590,000), plus an amount needed for securing and
paying debt service on bonds issued to finance the construction of the
Designated Project in the City, has been received from the City Sales and Use
Tax. Any funds remaining after payment of all such costs and retirement or
redemption of such bonds shall be placed in the general fund of the City and
may be used for any lawful purpose. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-9: ISSUANCE OF BONDS:
The City is authorized to issue general obligation sales tax revenue bonds to
finance the Designated Project, pledging the City Sales and Use Tax for debt
service on the bonds, in an amount not to exceed thirty one thousand five
hundred ninety dollars ($31,590,000), plus the amount needed for securing and
paying debt service, including interest, on the bonds for a period of twenty-
two (22) years in accordance with this ordinance and the City Charter. (Ord.
2022-26, 12- 12-2022)
1-9F-10: TAX CLEARANCE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
   A.   The City may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of a trade or
business within the City if the Commissioner notified the licensing division of
the City that the applicant owes delinquent City Taxes as provided in this
Article or penalties or interest due on such taxes. The phrase "City Taxes"
includes the City Sales and Use Tax. Penalties and interest are penalties and
interest due on taxes included in that definition.
   B.   The term "delinquent" does not include a tax liability if (i) an
administrative or court action which contests the amount or validity of the
liability has been filed or served, (ii) the appeal period to contest the tax
liability has not expired, or (iii) the applicant has entered into a payment
agreement and is current with the payments.
   C.   The term "applicant" means an individual if the license is issued to or
in the name of an individual or the corporation or partnership if the license
is issued to or in the name of a corporation or partnership.
   D.   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the licensing
division of the City shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case
of a renewal of a license, if the applicant requests in writing, within thirty
(30) calendar days of receipt of the notice of hearing, then, a contested case
hearing shall be held under the same procedures as provided in Minnesota
Statutes Chapter 270A, as may be amended from time to time, for the state sales
and use tax imposed under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 297A; provided further,
however, that if a hearing must be held on the state sales and use tax, the
hearings must be combined. (Ord. 2022-26, 12-12-2022)
1-9F-11: AGREEMENT WITH COMMISSIONER:
The City may enter into an agreement with the Commissioner regarding each
party's respective roles and responsibilities related to the imposition,
administration, collection, enforcement, and termination of the City Sales and
Use Tax. Any such agreement shall not abrogate, alter, or otherwise conflict
with the State Sales and Use Tax and Rules, this ordinance, or the Act. (Ord.
2022-26, 12- 12-2022)
CHAPTER 10
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Public Improvements Authorized
1-10-2: Improvement And Assessment Procedures
1-10-3: Deferred Assessments For Senior Citizens
1-10-4: Partial Prepayment Of Special Assessments
1-10-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AUTHORIZED:
Pursuant to the Moorhead city charter 1 , the council does herewith authorize
the city to make the following public improvements in addition to those public
improvements authorized by state law:
   A.   To acquire, develop, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain
natural gas mains and related activities in connection therewith.
   B.   To acquire, develop, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain
railroad spurs, signal lights, crossings and other necessary improvements in
connection therewith.
   C.   To acquire, develop, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain a hot
water district heating system.
   D.   To acquire, develop, construct, reconstruct, extend and maintain an
electric distribution system. (Ord. 722, 9-2-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of the city charter.
1-10-2: IMPROVEMENT AND ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   In addition to public improvements authorized by state law, the public
improvements outlined in section
1-10-1 of this chapter shall be made in accordance with Minnesota statutes
chapter 429 and related laws of the state of Minnesota governing the making of
such improvements as such statutes may be from time to time amended,
supplemented, or replaced. In addition, the city is empowered to levy special
assessments for all or any part of the cost of the public improvements set
forth in section
1-10-1 of this chapter in the manner prescribed by Minnesota statutes chapter
429 and other related laws of the state of Minnesota as such statutes may be
from time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced.
   B.   With respect to public improvements set forth in section
1-10-1 of this chapter, the council specifically may provide for the
construction of said improvements by railroad or utility companies by use of
day labor. (Ord. 722, 9-2-1980; amd. 1987 Code)
1-10-3: DEFERRED ASSESSMENTS FOR SENIOR CITIZENS:
Pursuant to the authority granted by Minnesota statutes section 435.193 as such
statute may be from time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced, any person
sixty five (65) years of age or older owning and homesteading property, which
property is subject to the levying of a special assessment after the effective
date hereof, and which person meets the qualifications of a claimant under
Minnesota statutes section 290A.03, subdivision 8, as such statute may be from
time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced, may apply for and receive
deferred payment of special assessments so levied by the city by making
application therefor to the city in accordance with Minnesota statutes section
435.194 as such statute may be from time to time amended, supplemented, or
replaced. Deferred assessments shall be subject to interest at the rate
currently charged on the unpaid principal balance of said assessment
outstanding. The option to defer payment of special assessments shall terminate
and all amounts accumulated, including accrued interest, shall become due upon
the occurrence of any of the following events:
   A.   Death of the owner, provided the spouse is otherwise not eligible for
the benefits herein;
   B.   The sale, transfer or subdivision of the property or any part thereof;
or
   C.   If the property should for any reason lose its homestead status. (Ord.
569, 12-15-1975; amd. 1987 Code)
1-10-4: PARTIAL PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
The city does hereby authorize the partial prepayment of special assessments
provided the minimum payment allowed is a fee as established by the city's fee
schedule and no partial prepayment will be allowed for the annual assessment
which has already been certified to the county for collection. (Ord. 2007-26,
10-1-2007; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
CHAPTER 11
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Findings, Declaration Of Policy And Purposes
1-11-2: Human Rights Act Adopted By Reference
1-11-3: Human Rights Commission Established
1-11-1: FINDINGS, DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSES:
   A.   Findings: The City Council finds that arbitrary and unfair
discrimination against any person, whether resident or visitor, in the City
adversely affects the health, welfare, peace and safety of the community, in
particular, but not limited to, any discrimination because of race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, status with regard to
public assistance, disability, age, sexual orientation, and familial status.
Discrimination demeans the dignity of persons, threatens the rights and
privileges of the inhabitants of this City, and menaces the institutions and
foundations of democracy.
   B.   Declaration Of Policy And Purpose: It is the public policy of the City
and the purpose of this chapter:
      1.   To encourage all persons, whether individual or corporate, to join
in establishing and preserving full and true equality among all residents and
visitors in the City;
      2.   To provide any person having a complaint with regard to
discrimination or denial of equal opportunity or treatment with the right to
appear before a local commission and be heard with regard to the complaint;
      3.   To declare, as civil rights, the rights of all persons to equal
opportunities in obtaining employment, education, housing, public
accommodations, public services and credit, in particular, but not limited to,
equal opportunity without regard to a person's race, color, creed, religion,
national origin, sex, marital status, status with regard to public assistance,
disability, age, sexual orientation, or familial status;
      4.   To seek an end to any arbitrary and unfair discriminatory practices
existing in the City with regard to education, employment, housing, public
accommodations, public service and credit, in particular, but not limited to,
any discriminatory practices based on race, color, creed, religion, national
origin, sex, marital status, status with regard to public assistance,
disability, age, sexual orientation, or familial status;
      5.   To protect all persons from unfounded charges of discrimination; and
      6.   To effectuate the foregoing policy by means of public information
and education. (Ord. 2017-7, 7-10-2017)
1-11-2: HUMAN RIGHTS ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Definitions: The definitions under the Minnesota Human Rights Act, as
such definitions and section may be from time to time amended, supplemented or
replaced, are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of this chapter as
completely as if set out herein in full and shall be applicable within the
City.
   B.   Exemptions: The exemptions listed in the Minnesota Human Rights Act, as
such exemptions and section may be from time to time amended, supplemented or
replaced, are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of this chapter as
completely as if set out herein in full and the sections of this chapter shall
not be applicable thereto.
   C.   Unfair Discriminatory Practices: The unfair discriminatory practices
listed in the Minnesota Human Rights Act, as such practices and section may be
from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, are hereby adopted and by
reference made a part of this chapter as completely as if set out herein in
full and shall be applicable within the City. The adoption of these practices
is not meant to limit complaints with regard to discrimination or denial of
equal opportunity or treatment that may be heard under this chapter but rather
to concur with the State of Minnesota as to certain particular unfair
discriminatory practices. (Ord. 2005-26, 10-3-2005)
1-11-3: HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established a Human Rights Commission
for the City of Moorhead.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of the commission is to secure for all persons,
whether residents or visitors, equal opportunity in education, employment,
housing, public accommodations, and public services, and full participation for
all Moorhead citizens in the affairs of this community.
   C.   Composition, Appointment, Removal And Compensation:
      1.   The commission shall be comprised of representation from significant
minority populations within the community as well as various institutional and
community groups.
      2.   The commission shall consist of seven (7) members; four (4) members
shall be appointed at-large by City Council members from each ward; two (2)
members shall be appointed by the Mayor; and one City Council member designated
by the Mayor, in accordance with the City's policies for appointments and
removal for citizen advisory groups. Mayor and City Council should strive for
membership diversity by appointing one student member 12 - 18 years of age,
three (3) members representative of marginalized populations and others which
have been historically discriminated against; of these three (3) members, two
(2) should be representative of separate populations.
      3.   Members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
   D.   Terms Of Members, Vacancies: The seven (7) members of the commission
will be appointed for a term of three (3) years. A member of the commission
serves until the member's successor is appointed and qualifies. A member of the
commission may not serve more than two (2) full three (3) year terms. Any
member appointed to complete a partial term will be eligible thereafter for
appointment to two (2) additional full three (3) year terms.
   E.   Meetings, Officers, And Annual Report:
      1.   The commission shall meet upon a regular schedule adopted by it, and
may meet additionally at the call of its Chair or any two (2) members.
      2.   The commission shall, at its annual meeting in February, elect a
Chair and Vice Chair.
      3.   The commission shall make a regular report of its activities to the
Mayor and the Council each year, and shall submit such report in writing
annually before April 1. The report shall include a listing of all speaking
engagements and other educational activities of the commission; the number of
commission meetings held, together with the names of those in attendance; the
activities of commission subcommittees; and such other information as the
commission may deem appropriate.
   F.   Commission Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   The commission shall foster, through education and public
information, general awareness and understanding of human rights issues and
laws in the community.
      2.   The commission shall enlist the cooperation of the agencies,
organizations, and individuals in the community, and shall cooperate with the
human and civil rights agencies of other communities in an active program
directed to create equal opportunities and equal rights for all persons, in
particular, but not limited to, equal opportunities and equal rights for
persons regardless of their race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex,
marital status, status with regard to public assistance, disability, age,
sexual orientation, or familial status.
      3.   The commission shall annually recognize individuals and groups for
their contribution to furthering human rights in the community.
      4.   The commission shall advise the Mayor, City Council, and City
Manager on human relations and civil rights issues and recommend to the Mayor,
City Council and City Manager the adoption of such specific policies or actions
as are needed to provide for full equal opportunity in the community. Upon
request, the commission may provide similar such advice and recommendations to
the Board of Education and Superintendent of Independent School District 152.
      5.   The commission shall call such meetings, hearings and conferences as
may be needed to effectuate the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      6.   The commission shall govern its own affairs and adopt reasonable
rules of practice and procedures, provided, that any such rules and any
amendments thereto, prior to taking effect, shall be approved by the City
Council.
      7.   The commission shall not seek to impose penalties nor shall any
penalties be imposed by the City under this chapter.
      8.   The commission shall inform any persons seeking to resolve their
disputes through the commission of their rights to pursue a claim through the
Minnesota Department of Human Rights. (Ord. 2017-7, 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 12
REGULATION OF CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Cable Franchises
1-12-2: Statement Of Intent And Purpose
1-12-3: Short Title
1-12-4: Definitions
1-12-5: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
1-12-6: Design Provisions
1-12-7: Service Provisions
1-12-8: Operation And Reporting Provisions
1-12-9: Consumer Protection Provisions
1-12-10: General Financial And Insurance Provisions
1-12-11: Foreclosure, Receivership And Abandonment
1-12-12: Removal, Transfer And Purchase
1-12-13: Rights Of Individuals Protected
1-12-14: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-12-1: CABLE FRANCHISES:
   A.   Cable One, Inc., is hereby granted a nonexclusive franchise to install,
construct, operate and maintain a cable television system within the corporate
limits of the city, effective upon their acceptance and entering into a
franchise agreement consistent with this chapter governing the relationship
between the city and Cable One, Inc.
   B.   Midcontinent Communications is hereby granted a nonexclusive franchise
to install, construct, operate and maintain a cable television system within
the corporate limits of the city, effective upon their acceptance and entering
into a franchise agreement consistent with this chapter governing the
relationship between the city and Midcontinent Communications. (Ord. 2008-25,
12-8-2008)
1-12-2: STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The city intends, by the adoption of this chapter, to bring about the continued
development and operation of a cable communications system. Such a development
can contribute significantly to the communication needs and desires of citizens
of the city. Further, by the continued development and operation of a system,
city may help achieve better utilization and improvement of public services. No
person or company shall operate a cable communications system within the city
without being granted a franchise by the city. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-
1999)
1-12-3: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY OF MOORHEAD CABLE
COMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE, hereinafter in this document referred to as
"chapter". (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meanings.
APPROVED: Approval by the city under the requirements of this chapter as
applied to a location, condition, technical standard, or method of construction
or approval by other authorities designated by law, ordinance, or this chapter
to give approval to the matter in question.
BASIC SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the lawful retransmission of
local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by the franchise to be carried on the
basic tier. Basic cable service as defined herein will be consistent with 47
USC section 543(6)(7).
CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, pub. L. no. 98-549, 98
stat. 2779 (1984) (codified at 47 USC sections 521-611 [1982 & supp. V 1987]),
as amended by the cable television consumer protection and competition act of
1992, pub. L. no. 102-385; the telecommunications act of 1996, pub. L. and any
amendments thereto.
CABLE PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Any video programming provided over a cable system,
regardless of service tier, including installation or rental of equipment used
for the receipt of such video programming, other than:
   Video programming carried on the basic service tier;
   Video programming offered on a pay per channel or pay per program basis; or
   A combination of multiple channels of pay per channel or pay per program
video programming offered on a multiplexed or time shifted basis so long as the
combined service: consists of commonly identified video programming; and is not
bundled with any regulated tier of service.
   "Cable programming service" as defined herein will be consistent with the
definition as set forth in 47 USC section 543(1)(2) and 47 CFR 76.901(b)
(1993).
CABLE SERVICE: The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming, or
other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection of such video programming or other programming
service. There must be at least thirty five (35) channels offered for cable
service.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM OR CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: A facility consisting of a
set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception,
and control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a
community, but such term does not include: a) a facility that serves only to
retransmit the television signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
b) a facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple-unit
dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such facility
or facilities uses any public right of way; c) a facility of a common carrier
which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of title II of the
communications act of 1934, except that such facility shall be considered a
cable system (other than for purposes of section 621(c)) to the extent such
facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; or d) any facilities of any electric utility used solely for
operating its electric utility system.
CHANNEL: A band of frequencies in the electromagnetic spectrum, or any other
means of transmission (including, without limitation, optical fibers or any
other means now available or that may become available), which is capable of
carrying a video signal, an audio signal, a voice signal, or a data signal.
CITY: The city of Moorhead, Minnesota, or, as appropriate in the case of
specific provisions of this chapter, any board, bureau, authority, agency,
commission, department of, or any other entity of or acting on behalf of, the
city of Moorhead, or any officer, official, employee, or agent thereof, the
designee of any of the foregoing, or any successor thereto.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city.
COMPLAINT: Any verbal or written inquiry, allegation or assertion made by a
person which requires subsequent corrective action to the system or any portion
thereof, or raises an objection to the programming or business practices of a
cable operator. The term "complaint" does not include an inquiry which is
immediately answered by an operator.
CONVERTER: An electronic device with an appropriate channel selector which
permits a subscriber to view all signals purchased.
DROP: The cable that connects the subscriber terminal at a point in the
subscriber's home, designated by the subscriber, to the nearest feeder cable of
the system.
FCC: The federal communications commission, its designee, or any successor
thereto.
FRANCHISE AREA: The territory within the city throughout which an operator
shall be authorized to construct, maintain and operate its system and shall
include any enlargements thereof and additions thereto.
GROSS REVENUES: Any and all revenue in any way derived and collected directly
or indirectly by operator, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, or any person
in which operator has a financial interest, from or in connection with the
operation, of all or any part of a cable television system franchised pursuant
to this chapter, including, but not limited to, revenue from all cable service
fees including user fees, regular subscriber service fees, installation and
reconnection fees, leased channel fees, converter and other equipment rentals,
and advertising revenues (advertising revenues attributable to the city shall
be determined by apportioning the total advertising revenue of the operator's
system among those governmental units entitled to a portion of those revenues
based on the number of subscribers in each such unit as a percentage of the
total number of subscribers in all such units); provided, however, that this
shall not include any taxes imposed directly upon any subscriber or user by a
state, local or other governmental unit and collected by such operator on
behalf of such governmental unit. It does include money collected from
subscribers that is allocated by operator to pay the franchise fee.
INSTALLATION: The act of connecting the system from the feeder cable to the
subscriber terminal so that cable service may be received by the subscriber.
NONCABLE SERVICE: Any service which is distributed over the system other than a
cable service.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers. In all cases "normal business hours"
shall include at least the hours from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) P.M.
OPERATOR: Any person, persons, partnership, firm, company, corporation or
association, or the assignee, affiliate, parent, subsidiary, or successor of
the operator, operating a cable system within the corporate limits of the city.
PAY TELEVISION: The delivery over the system of per channel, per channel group
or per program audiovisual signals to subscribers for a fee or charge, in
excess of the charge for basic service or cable programming services.
PERSON: Any natural person or any association, firm, partnership, joint
venture, corporation, or other legally recognized entity, whether for profit or
not for profit.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property, other than a street, owned by any
governmental unit.
SIGNAL: Any transmission of radio frequency energy or of optical information.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, public
road, public highway, public freeway, public lane, public path, public way,
public alley, public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway,
public drive, utility easement or any public easement or right of way now or
hereafter held by the city which shall, within its proper use and meaning in
the sole opinion of the city, entitle an operator to the use thereof for the
purpose of installing or transmitting over poles, wires, cables, conductors,
ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, attachments and
other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to a system.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity who lawfully subscribes to a cable service
provided by an operator by means of or in connection with the system.
SYSTEM UPGRADE: The process by which the system shall be upgraded pursuant to
subsection 1-12-6B of this chapter.
TWO-WAY OPERATIONAL SYSTEM: The headend, trunk cables, distribution plant,
amplifiers, and other technical components of the system have the requisite
equipment in place to pass video, audio, voice, and/or data signals in both
directions simultaneously. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999; amd. Ord.
2014-04, 5-27-2014)
1-12-5: GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority For Use Of Streets:
      1.   For the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining a system
in the city, an operator may erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
relocate, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along
the streets within the city such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other
property and equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the
system, provided that all applicable permits are applied for and granted, all
fees paid and all other city codes and ordinances are otherwise complied with.
      2.   Prior to any construction, reconstruction, or rebuild of the system,
the operator shall, in each case, file plans with the city and receive written
approval of such plans.
      3.   The operator shall submit to the city all requests for the
construction of new poles and/or new underground cable construction, and their
proposed locations. Approval of the new location of new poles and/or new
underground cable construction shall be granted by the city after such
locations have been approved by the appropriate city authority. This provision
shall not apply to existing poles or to underground cable construction which
utilizes existing municipal or utility easements.
      4.   The operator shall construct and maintain the system so as not to
interfere with other uses of streets. Absent specific approval from the city to
do otherwise, the operator shall make use of existing poles and other
facilities available to the operator. The operator shall individually notify in
writing all residents whose property or property access shall be directly
affected by proposed underground work not less than forty eight (48) hours
prior to commencement of that work. Such notice shall include the operator's
telephone number and the responsible employee of the operator.
      5.   Notwithstanding the above grant to use the streets, no street shall
be used by the operator if the city's public works director, in the city's sole
opinion, determines that such use is inconsistent with the terms, conditions or
provisions by which such street was created or dedicated, or presently used. In
addition, the city's public works director may designate a reasonable alternate
location or route in a street to be used by the operator so as not to interfere
with existing or future utilities in the street.
   B.   Nature Of Chapter: This chapter and any franchise granted hereunder
shall authorize an operator to provide only cable services on the system. This
chapter and any franchise granted hereunder do not authorize an operator to
provide any noncable services (including telecommunications or other voice or
data information) on the system, provided, however, that an operator may
provide such noncable services on the system in accordance with Minnesota
statutes 1996, sections 237.162 - 237.163.
   C.   City's Rights Reserved: The city expressly reserves the following
rights which shall not be deemed to be waived or aberrated by this chapter: 1)
to exercise its governmental powers, now or hereafter, to the full extent that
such powers may be vested in or granted to the city; 2) to adopt, in addition
to the provisions contained in this chapter, or any existing applicable
ordinances, such additional regulations as it shall find necessary in the
exercise of its police power; and 3) to modify this chapter upon mutual
agreement of the city and operator so as to require additional or greater
standards of construction, operation, maintenance or otherwise, on the part of
operator to reflect technical, economic or jurisdictional changes occurring
during the franchise term and to enable the city and the operator to take
advantage of new developments in the cable television industry so as to more
effectively, efficiently and economically serve the public.
   D.   Use Of The Operator Facilities: The city shall have the right to
install and maintain, free of charge, upon the poles and within the underground
pipes and conduits of the operator, any wires and fixtures desired by the city
of noncompetitive services to the extent that such installation and maintenance
does not interfere with existing and future operations of the operator. City
shall indemnify and hold harmless operator for any losses or causes of action
resulting from city's negligent use of operator's facilities. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-
1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-6: DESIGN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Construction Terms:
      1.   The operator shall comply with all applicable federal, state, and
city laws, rules, regulations, codes, and other requirements in connection with
the construction of the system.
      2.   The installation of all cables, wires, or other component parts of
the system in any structure shall be undertaken in a manner which does not
unreasonably interfere with the operation of any existing MATV, SMATV, MDS,
MMDS, DBS, cable television or other distribution system in said structure,
including any conduit used in connection with such other system. Operators of
MATV, SMATV, MDS, MMDS, DBS, cable television or other distribution systems
shall install their equipment so as not to unreasonably interfere with the
operations of any cable television system.
      3.   The operator must comply with, and shall ensure that its
subcontractors comply with, all rules, regulations, and standards of the city.
If the installation, construction, or operation of the system does not comply
with such rules, regulations, and standards, the operator must, at its sole
cost, remove and reinstall such cables, wires, or other component parts of the
system to ensure compliance with such rules, regulations, and standards.
      4.   The operator shall use its best efforts to minimize cable service
interruptions during the rebuild period.
   B.   Construction Of System Or System Upgrade:
      1.   Any operator planning construction or upgrade of a cable television
system in the city must submit to the city a construction schedule and specific
construction sequencing plans for the construction or system upgrade
accompanied by a separate map showing: a) the location of the master headend,
all subheadends/hubs, headend to hub interconnect network, fiber backbone, and
all studio facilities within the system; and b) the proposed distribution of
all principal trunk lines throughout the system (including termination points
of all lines). All such construction schedules shall be fully justified on the
basis of factors which will affect construction in the city, and the operator
should set out any factors which may adversely affect its ability to meet the
schedules. The operator must submit an updated construction schedule to the
director on a quarterly basis until the completion of the construction or
system upgrade.
      2.   Subject to written request of the city, no less than thirty (30)
days prior to completion of system construction or upgrade, the operator shall
notify the city that construction or system upgrade is substantially complete.
The city and the operator shall arrange for such inspections, as the city shall
deem appropriate, to enable the city to ascertain whether the construction or
system upgrade has been completed as scheduled. The city shall accept the
completion of the construction or system upgrade upon the city's satisfaction
that the obligations of the operator to complete the construction or system
upgrade have been fulfilled in all respects.
   C.   Two-Way System: The operator shall provide a cable television system
capable of (including, but not limited to, return amplifier housings) nonvoice
return communications. The city and the operator will continue to review,
during the term of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the need and
economic feasibility for implementation of a two-way operational system.
   D.   Interconnection: Whenever it is technically and practically feasible,
an operator may so construct, operate and modify its system so as to tie the
same into all other cable systems within and adjacent to the city.
   E.   Provision Of Service:
      1.   After cable service has been established by activating trunk and
distribution cable for any area, the operator shall provide cable service to
any requesting person, subject to lawful installation policies of the operator,
ninety five percent (95%) of the time within that area seven (7) days from the
date of request, provided the installation request is one hundred fifty feet
(150') or less from the feeder cable.
      2.   The operator shall install and provide its basic cable service to
all nonresidential public buildings designated by the city at no charge for
either the initial installation or for monthly cable service provided at each
location. Each of these installations should include a signal drop, one outlet,
up to a two hundred fifty foot (250') line extension, to receive such services.
If the extension exceeds two hundred fifty feet (250'), the city will be
responsible for the costs of the extension beyond the first two hundred fifty
feet (250'). If a converter is required, the city will pay the operator the
same converter fee as other customers on the system. The public buildings to be
provided this service shall include the following:
         a.   The city fire stations;
         b.   The city hall complex;
         c.   The city police stations.
      3.   There should be no limit on the number of television receivers an
institution may operate from the connection referenced in subsection E2 of this
section, but the expenses of installing and maintaining an internal
distribution system shall be the responsibility of the institution.
      4.   Any internal distribution system installed by an institution listed
in this section shall conform to all applicable federal, state, and city rules,
regulations, and ordinances and shall be operated in such a manner so as not to
interfere with the operator's system if such free cable service is to be
maintained.
   F.   Technical Standards And Performance Testing: The operator shall
construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a manner consistent with
all applicable laws and FCC technical standards, and any standards set forth in
its franchise agreement. In addition, the operator shall provide to the city,
upon written request, a written report of the results of the operator's
periodic proof of performance tests conducted pursuant to FCC standards and
guidelines. The operator and the city shall comply with any other applicable
laws concerning any services which the operator provides over its cable system.
Repeated and verified failure to comply with FCC technical standards shall
constitute a violation of the franchise entitling the city to utilize the
procedures of subsection 1-12-10K of this chapter.
   G.   Special Testing:
      1.   At any time after commencement of cable service to subscribers, the
city may require operator to perform additional tests, full or partial repeat
tests, different test procedures, or tests involving a specific subscriber's
drop. Such additional tests will be made on the basis of complaints received or
other evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or significant
noncompliance, and such tests will be limited to the particular matter in
controversy. Operator shall bear the expense for such special testing.
      2.   The city shall endeavor to so arrange its requests for such special
tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to the operator or to the
subscriber.
   H.   Operational Status Reports: Upon request, the operator shall provide to
the city the following statistical information: 1) number of repair service
requests; 2) breakdown by type of complaints received; 3) breakdown by cause of
problems experienced on the system; 4) resolution of complaints received or
problems experienced with the system.
   I.   Test And Compliance Procedures:
      1.   The operator shall perform all tests required by the FCC to verify
compliance with all applicable technical standards.
      2.   The tests may, upon request of the city, be witnessed by
representatives of the city.
      3.   If one or more of the locations tested fails to meet the performance
standards, the operator shall immediately, normally no longer than seven (7)
days from the date of testing, complete corrective measures and report, if
requested, to the city the corrective measures so taken. The entire test shall
then be repeated for all locations which failed initial testing. The operator
shall bear the expense of all such testing.
   J.   Construction Timetable:
      1.   The operator shall give notice to the city at least thirty (30) days
prior to the anticipated completion date of system construction or upgrade and
again at such time as the operator has, in fact, completed all construction.
      2.   Upon receipt of notice that all construction has been completed, the
city shall have sixty (60) days to obtain a written report from an independent
engineer confirming the completion of construction; provided, however, that if
the city fails to obtain such a written report within said sixty (60) days, the
construction shall be deemed completed, unless the failure to obtain such a
report is due to unforeseen events, acts of God, or events beyond the
reasonable control of the city.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the city
may condition completion of construction upon receipt of a written report from
an independent engineer, which report confirms the following:
         a.   That all construction has been completed or otherwise
satisfactorily resolved.
         b.   Satisfactory test results using the technical standards set forth
within this chapter at up to ten (10) widely separated subscriber drops
selected by the independent engineer and using the following tests:
            (1)   Signal level.
            (2)   Hum.
            (3)   Band pass response of system.
            (4)   Carrier to noise.
         c.   Compliance with all applicable codes and standards.
         d.   Installation and the proper working of the emergency alert
system.
         e.   Carriage of the basic service.
   K.   Construction Delay: The operator shall notify the city of any delay in
the construction. Any and all modifications or delays in the construction
schedule shall be subject to approval of the city.
   L.   Construction Standards:
      1.   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all
applicable sections of the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as
amended, as well as all state and local codes where applicable.
      2.   All installation of electronic equipment shall be of a nature
consistent with industry practices, durable and installed in accordance with
the provisions of the national electrical and safety code and national
electrical code, as amended, and the ordinances and regulations of the FCC,
state of Minnesota, and the city that are in effect now or in the future.
      3.   Antennas and their supporting structures (tower) shall be painted,
lighted, erected and maintained in accordance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the federal aviation administration and all other applicable
state or local laws, codes and regulations.
      4.   All of the operator's plant and equipment, including, but not
limited to, the antenna site, headend and distribution system, towers, house
connections, structures, poles, wire, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances
shall be installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced,
removed, repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced maintenance and construction personnel so
as not to endanger or interfere with known and contemplated improvements the
city may deem appropriate to make or to interfere in any manner with the legal
rights of any property owner, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian
or vehicular traffic.
      5.   The operator shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to
the public.
   M.   Construction Codes And Permits:
      1.   The operator shall obtain all required permits from the city before
commencing any work requiring a permit, including the opening or disturbance of
any street, or public property or public easement within the city. The operator
shall strictly adhere to all building and zoning codes currently or hereafter
applicable to construction, operation or maintenance of the system in the city.
      2.   The city shall have the right to inspect all construction or
installation work performed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and to
make such tests as it shall find necessary to ensure compliance with the terms
of this chapter and applicable provisions of local, state and federal law.
      3.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to give the
operator the authority to enter upon or work on private property in areas not
encumbered with public easements without the permission of the property owner.
   N.   Repair Of Streets And Property: Any and all streets or public property
or private property, which are disturbed or damaged during the construction,
repair, replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of
the system shall be promptly repaired by the operator, at its expense, to a
condition as good as that prevailing prior to the operator's construction and
in a manner consistent with the provisions of the excavation ordinance of the
city.
   O.   Undergrounding Of Cable:
      1.   Cable shall be installed underground at the operator's expense where
both the existing telephone and electrical utilities are already underground.
The operator shall place cable underground in newly platted areas within sixty
(60) days of installation of all utilities (water, sewer, telephone and
electrical), unless this requirement is waived by the city.
      2.   In the event an underground installation is required and the ground
is frozen, saturated, or otherwise unable to immediately facilitate underground
installation, such installation may be performed on a temporary basis in
compliance with all state and federal rules, regulations, codes, or other
generally applicable standards. As soon as conditions change to permit proper
underground installation of the cable, the operator shall immediately, and in
no event later than ninety (90) days after such conditions have changed to
allow underground installation, undertake all necessary steps to install the
cable underground pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   P.   Reservation Of Street Rights:
      1.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the city from
constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating sewers; grading, paving,
maintaining, repairing, relocating and/or altering any street; constructing,
laying down, repairing, maintaining or relocating any water mains; or
constructing, maintaining, relocating, or repairing any sidewalk or other
public work.
      2.   All such work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in such a
manner as not to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of the
poles, wires, conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of the operator.
      3.   The operator shall promptly, and at its own expense, with due regard
for seasonal working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its facilities
in the right of way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not
merely for convenience of the local government unit, in connection with: a) a
present or future city use of the right of way for a public project; b) the
public health or safety; or c) the safety and convenience of travel over the
right of way. Provided, however, the operator is not required to remove or
relocate its facilities from a right of way that has been vacated in favor of a
nongovernmental entity unless and until the reasonable costs to do so are first
paid to the operator.
      4.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring the operator's facilities while performing any work connected with
grading, regrading, or changing the line of any street or public place or with
the construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water system.
   Q.   Trimming Of Trees: The operator shall have the authority to trim trees
upon and hanging over streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public places of the city
so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with the
wires and cables of the operator. Operator shall be solely responsible for its
actions pursuant to this section.
   R.   Vacation Of Streets And Abandoned Facilities: If the city vacates a
right of way that contains the facilities of the operator, and the right of way
vacation does not require the relocation of the operator's facilities, the city
shall, except when it would not be in the public interest, reserve to and for
itself and all right of way users having facilities in the vacated right of
way, the right to install, maintain and operate any facilities in the vacated
right of way, and to enter upon the right of way at any time to reconstruct,
inspect, maintain, or repair the facilities.
If the city vacates a right of way that contains the facilities of the
operator, and the right of way vacation requires the relocation of operator's
facilities, payment of the relocation costs must be determined as follows: 1)
if vacation proceedings are initiated by the operator, the operator must pay
the relocation costs; 2) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city
for a public project, the operator must pay the relocation costs, unless
otherwise agreed to by the city and the operator; or 3) if the vacation
proceedings are initiated for the purpose of benefiting a person other than the
operator, the benefited person must pay the relocation costs.
Operator shall notify the local government unit when facilities are to be
abandoned. The operator shall remove them from the right of way if required in
conjunction with other right of way repair, excavation, or construction, unless
this requirement is waived by the city.
   S.   Movement Of Facilities: In the event it is necessary temporarily to
move or remove any of the operator's wires, cables, poles, or other facilities
placed pursuant to this chapter, in order to lawfully move a large object,
vehicle, building or other structure over the streets of the city, upon two (2)
weeks' notice by the city to the operator, or such lesser time as required by
title 9, chapter 3 of this code relating to moving buildings, the operator
shall, at the expense of the person requesting the temporary removal of such
facilities, comply with city's request. Any service disruption provisions of
this chapter shall not apply in the event that the removal of the operator's
wires, cables, poles or other facilities results in temporary service
disruptions.
   T.   Enlargement Of Franchise Area:
      1.   In the event any new territory shall become annexed to the city,
such new territory shall become, by operation of law, a part of said franchise
area immediately upon the date such annexation becomes final, and said
franchise area shall thereafter be deemed enlarged to include the addition of
such new territory.
      2.   The operator shall make cable service available to any new territory
within a reasonable time, as determined by the city after the annexation
thereof becomes final. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-27-2014)
1-12-7: SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Franchises To Operate Cable Communications Systems In The City:
      1.   No operator shall offer cable service to subscribers by means of a
cable television system within the city unless it holds a franchise granted by
ordinance authorizing such a system within the city and in, under, and over the
streets, highways, and other public grounds of the city, as provided in this
chapter.
      2.   Any operator holding a franchise shall provide cable service to all
residents within the city limits where a density equivalent of eighty (80) or
more residential dwelling units per cable mile exists.
      3.   Except upon approval of the city council, all franchises or renewal
of franchises granted by ordinance pursuant to this section shall be
nonexclusive; the city council reserves the right to issue as many such
franchises as it deems advisable in the public interest, and shall not
unreasonably refuse to award an additional competitive franchise.
      4.   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall not authorize
an additional operator to operate within the franchise area of an existing
operator on terms or conditions more favorable or less burdensome to such new
operator than those applied to any existing operator.
      5.   The term of each franchise shall be for a period of no more than
fifteen (15) years, the effective date to be pursuant to any franchise granted
hereunder, with the right of renewal, consistent with state and federal law (in
particular, section 626 of the cable act). To the extent section 626 of the
cable act is no longer applicable to franchise renewals, the city and operator
shall conduct the franchise renewal process pursuant to the terms and
provisions of section 626 of the cable act as it existed at the time the
franchise was granted or last renewed.
   B.   Applications For Franchise: All applications to construct, operate or
maintain any cable television system in the city or to traverse any portion of
the city for transmitting or conveying of such service elsewhere, shall be
filed with the city clerk, and each such application shall be set forth,
contain, or be accompanied by the following:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   A detailed statement of the corporate or other business entity
organization of the applicant, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   The names and business addresses of all officers, directors and
associates of the applicant.
         b.   The names and business addresses of all persons and entities
having, controlling, or being entitled to have or control five percent (5%) or
more of the ownership of the applicant, and the respective ownership share of
each such person or entity.
         c.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of the
applicant and of any other business entity owning or controlling in whole or in
part or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant, and a
statement describing the nature of any such parent or subsidiary business
entity, including, but not limited to, all cable systems or similar systems
owned or controlled by the applicant, its parent or subsidiary and the areas
served thereby.
         d.   A detailed description of all previous experience of the
applicant in providing cable service or related or similar services.
         e.   A detailed and complete financial statement of the applicant,
prepared by a certified public accountant, for the fiscal year next preceding
the date of the application hereunder, or a letter or other acceptable evidence
in writing from a recognized lending institution or funding source, addressed
to both the applicant and the city, setting forth the basis for a study
performed by such lending institution or funding source, and its clear
statement of its intent as a lending institution or funding source to provide
whatever capital shall be required by the applicant to construct and operate
the proposed system in the city, or a statement from a certified public
accountant, certifying that the applicant has available sufficient free, net
and uncommitted cash resources to construct and operate the proposed system in
the city.
         f.   A statement identifying, by place and date, any other cable
television franchise(s) awarded to the applicant, its parent or subsidiary; the
status of said franchise(s) with respect to completion thereof; the total cost
of completion of such system(s); and the amount of applicant's and its parent's
or subsidiary's resources committed to the completion thereof.
      3.   A detailed description of the proposed plan of operation of the
applicant, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   A detailed map indicating all areas proposed to be served, and a
proposed time schedule for the installation of all equipment necessary to
become operational throughout the entire area to be served.
         b.   A statement or schedule setting forth all proposed
classifications of rates and charges to be made against subscribers and all
rates and charges as to each of any said classifications, including
installation charges, service charges, and special, extraordinary, or other
charges. The purchase price, terms, and nature of any optional or required
equipment, device, or other item to be offered for sale to any subscriber shall
be described and explained in detail.
         c.   A detailed, informative, and referenced statement describing the
actual equipment and operational standards proposed by the applicant. In no
event shall said operational and performance standards be less than those
contained in title 47, subpart K (section 76.601 et seq.) rules and
regulations, federal communications commission, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
      4.   A copy of the form of any agreement, undertaking, or other
instrument proposed to be entered into between the applicant and any
subscriber.
      5.   A detailed statement setting forth in its entirety any and all
agreements and undertakings, whether formal or informal, written, oral or
implied, existing or proposed to exist between the offerer/applicant and any
person, firm or corporation which shall in any manner, directly or indirectly
relate or pertain to or depend upon the application, proposed franchise, or any
operation or proposed operation thereunder or with respect thereto.
      6.   A copy of any agreement covering the franchise area, if existing,
between the applicant and any public utility providing for the use of any
facilities of any public utility, including, but not limited to, poles, lines,
or conduits.
      7.   Any other details, statements, information or references pertinent
to the subject matter of such application which shall be required or requested
by the city.
      8.   The application fee in a sum established by the city which shall be
in the form of cash, certified or cashier's check, or money order, to pay the
costs of studying, investigating, and otherwise processing such application,
and which shall be in consideration thereof and not returnable or refundable in
whole or in part; provided, that any applicant who shall deliver to the city
clerk a written withdrawal of or cancellation of any application hereunder, not
later than the seventh day next following the day such application is received
by the city clerk, shall be entitled to have returned and refunded an
applicable portion of the application fee. Any operator seeking renewal of its
franchise is not required to pay the application fee required under this
paragraph.
   C.   Application Procedure:
      1.   The city may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit and call
for applications for cable system franchises, and may determine and fix any
date upon or after which the same shall be received by the city or the date
before which the same must be received, or the date after which the same shall
not be received, and may make any other determinations and specify any other
times, terms, conditions, or limitations respecting the soliciting, calling
for, making and receiving of such offers and applications; provided, that the
city shall not be required to solicit or call for such offers or applications
and may receive or refuse to receive any of the same, solicited, called for, or
otherwise, as the city may elect.
      2.   Upon receipt of any application for a franchise, the city clerk or
such individual or committee as may be designated by the city, shall cause such
application to be investigated, shall prepare a report of such investigation,
shall make recommendations respecting such application, and shall cause said
report and recommendations to be placed upon the agenda of the regular session
of the city next following the completion thereof, or as otherwise directed by
the city. A copy of such report and recommendations and notice of the date it
will be presented to the city shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
listed in the application. Any existing operator may provide the city a written
request to receive a copy of said report and city shall provide a copy of said
report as soon as reasonably possible.
      3.   The city shall receive such report and recommendations of the city
clerk or such individual or committee as may be designated by the city; shall
consider the same together with such application; and shall make its
determination either that such application should be accepted upon such terms
and conditions as the city shall determine, and as herein provided, or that
such application should be rejected. In making any determination hereunder as
to any application, the city shall give due consideration to the quality of the
service proposed; rates to subscribers; income to the city; experience,
character background, and financial responsibility of the applicant and its
management and owners; the technical and performance quality of the equipment
to be used; the willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction
and physical requirements, policy conditions, permit limitations, and
requirements imposed by this chapter or pursuant hereto; and any other
considerations deemed pertinent by the city for safeguarding the interest of
the city and the public. The city may determine that the award of any franchise
shall be made on the basis of such considerations with or without competitive
bidding, or otherwise in its discretion.
      4.   If the city shall determine that such application should be
rejected, such determination shall be final and conclusive, and the same shall
be deemed rejected. If the city shall determine such application should be
accepted, the following shall be done and caused to be done:
         a.   The city shall decide and specify the terms and conditions of any
franchise to be granted hereunder and as herein provided.
         b.   The city shall pass its resolution of intention to grant such
franchise, stating the name of the proposed operator, the character of
franchise, the terms and conditions upon which such franchise is proposed to be
granted, fixing and setting forth the date, hour and place certain when and
where any persons having any interest therein or objection to the granting
thereof may appear before the city and be heard, and directing the city clerk
to publish said resolution at least once, within fifteen (15) days of the
passage thereof; such publication shall also specify a time and date for a
hearing on said resolution. Such hearing shall be not less than ten (10) days
nor more than thirty (30) days after the date of publication.
      5.   At the time set for such hearing, or at any adjournment thereof, the
city shall proceed to hearing and pass upon all protests, and its decision
thereon shall be final and conclusive. Thereafter, the city shall make one of
the following determinations:
         a.   That such franchise be denied; or
         b.   That such franchise be granted upon the terms and conditions as
specified in the resolution of intention to grant the same; or
         c.   That such franchise be granted, but upon the terms and conditions
different from those specified in the resolution of intention to grant the
same.
      6.   If the city shall determine that such franchise be denied, such
determination shall be by resolution and shall be final and conclusive. If the
city shall determine that such franchise be granted, such determination shall
be by ordinance, granting such franchise upon such terms and conditions as
specified therein.
   D.   Acceptance Of Franchise:
      1.   No franchise granted hereunder shall become effective for any
purpose unless and until written acceptance thereof shall have been filed with
the city clerk; and such written acceptance shall be in form and substance as
shall be prescribed and approved by the city attorney and shall be and operate
as an acceptance of each and every term and condition and limitation contained
in this chapter, in such franchise, or otherwise specified.
      2.   Such written acceptance shall be filed by operator no later than one
minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) P.M. of the thirtieth day next following the
final adoption of the franchise ordinance and franchise agreement by the city;
and in default of the filing of such written acceptance as herein required,
operator shall be deemed to have rejected and repudiated the same; and
thereafter, the acceptance of any such operator shall not be received nor filed
by the city clerk, and such operator shall have no rights, remedies or redress
in the premises unless and until the city shall determine that such acceptance
be received or filed, and then upon such terms and conditions as the city may
impose.
   E.   Programming: The operator shall initially provide programming,
consisting of the services identified in its franchise agreement. If an
operator provides a premium channel without charge to subscribers who do not
subscribe to such premium channel, the operator shall endeavor to provide
reasonable advance notice to all such subscribers.
   F.   Programming Decisions: All programming decisions shall be at the sole
discretion of the operator; provided, however, the city reserves all of its
rights pursuant to section 625 of the cable act regarding any change in the
mix, quality, or level of service and any other rights pursuant to section 625
of the cable act.
   G.   Emergency Alert System: The operator shall install and thereafter
maintain use by the city an emergency alert system (EAS). The EAS will operate
pursuant to standards set forth by the FCC EAS rules and regulations.
   H.   Access Channels:
      1.   Minimum Required Access Channels:
         a.   Operator shall, at a minimum, provide to each of its subscribers
who receives some or all of the total services offered on system, reception on
at least one specially designated noncommercial public access channel available
for use by the general public on a first come, first served, nondiscriminatory
basis; at least two (2) specially designated access channels for use by the
city.
         b.   The operator is permitted to recover all direct labor costs and
direct operating costs from commercial users of any specially designated access
channel available under this section. The operator is not permitted to recover
any labor costs or operating costs from any other users of any specially
designated access channel available under this section for channel time or
playback of prerecorded programming of one hour or less. The operator is
permitted to recover all direct labor costs from any other users of any
specially designated access channel available under this section for channel
time or playback of prerecorded programming of more than one hour.
      2.   Additional Access Channels:
         a.   Whenever the specially designated noncommercial access channel
required in this section is in use during eighty percent (80%) of the weekdays
(Monday - Friday), for eighty percent (80%) of the time during any consecutive
three (3) hour period for six (6) weeks running, and there is demand for use of
an additional channel for the same purpose, operator shall then have six (6)
months in which to provide a new specially designated access channel for the
same purpose, provided that provision of such additional channel or channels
shall not require operator to install converters.
         b.   Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to preclude the
installation of converters by operator on a voluntary basis, or as a result of
an agreement arrived at through negotiation between the parties or by a
potential access use who wishes to install converters in order to make use of
an additional channel or channels.
      3.   Operating Rules: Operator shall be subject to rules governing the
use of any access channels to be enacted by the city pursuant to section 47 USC
section 531(d).
      4.   Special Service Subscriber: In the event subscribers are offered the
option of receiving programs on one or more special service channels without
also receiving the regular subscriber services, operator may comply with the
requirements of this section by providing the subscribers who receive the
special service only, the specially designated noncommercial access channel
required in this section.
      5.   Channel Capacity Limitations:
         a.   To the extent time is available therefor, access channels may
also be used for other broadcast and nonbroadcast services, provided, that such
services are subject to immediate displacement if there is demand to use the
channel for its specially designated purpose. Operator shall, in any case,
provide at least one full channel on its spectrum for shared access
programming.
      6.   Alarm Service/Data Transmission Services: To the extent operator
provides only alarm services or only data transmission services for computer
operated functions, operator need not provide access channel reception to alarm
and data service subscribers.
      7.   Access Equipment: Operator shall make readily available for public
use at least the minimal equipment necessary for the production of programming
and playback of prerecorded programs for the specially designated noncommercial
public access channel(s). Operator shall also make readily available, upon need
being shown, the minimum equipment necessary to make it possible to record
programs at remote locations with battery operated portable equipment. Need
within the meaning of this section shall be determined by subscriber petition.
The petition must contain the signatures of at least ten percent (10%) of the
subscribers of system, but in no case, more than five hundred (500) nor fewer
than one hundred (100) signatures. (Ord. 2014-23, 10-27-2014)
1-12-8: OPERATION AND REPORTING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Open Books And Records: The city shall have the right to inspect, upon
twenty four (24) hours' written notice, at any time during normal business
hours at the operator's local office all books, records, maps, plans, financial
statements, service complaint logs, performance test results, record of
requests for service and other like materials of the operator maintained
locally which are reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the terms of
this Chapter.
   B.   Communications With Regulatory Agencies: Copies of all petitions,
applications, communications and reports submitted by the operator or on behalf
of or relating to the operator to the FCC or any other Federal or State
regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction with respect to any matters
affecting the system authorized pursuant to this Chapter shall also, upon
request, be provided to the City. Copies of responses from the regulatory
agencies to the operator shall, upon request, likewise be provided to the City
within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the response.
   C.   Annual Report: On or before April 1 of each year, the operator shall,
upon request, file with the City a copy of any of the following reports
regarding the system:
      1.   A description of the basic service then being offered at the end of
the fiscal year together with a description of any changes made in the basic
service during the reported year.
      2.   A compilation setting forth the results of any subscriber survey.
      3.   A current copy of the subscriber service information required in
accordance with subsection 1-12-9H of this Chapter.
      4.   A current list of names and addresses of each principal. For the
purposes of this requirement the term "principal" means any person, firm,
corporation, partnership or joint venture, or other entity who or which owns or
controls five percent (5%) or more of the voting stock (or any equivalent
interest of a partnership or joint venture of the operator).
      5.   A compilation summarizing the complaints received during the
reported year, by category, and a discussion of any unresolved complaints.
      6.   A description of how pay-per-view programming is made available.
      7.   Reasons why certain areas within the City are not served and plans
to extend cable service to these areas.
   D.   Additional Reports: The operator shall prepare and furnish to the City,
at the times and in the form prescribed, such additional reports with respect
to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, which are reasonably
necessary for the administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
   E.   Maps: The operator shall provide City, upon request, a current map or
set of maps drawn to scale showing: the system and all equipment installed or
in place in streets and other public places, the areas where the operator's
cable system is now available to subscribers, and the areas where the system is
not available.
   F.   Audit: The City and its agents and representatives shall have the
authority, during normal business hours, to arrange for and conduct an audit of
the books and records of the operator and its equipment. The operator shall
first be given seven (7) days' advance written notice of the audit request, a
description of and purpose for the audit and description, to the best of the
City's ability, of the books, records, documents and equipment it wishes to
inspect. The operator shall have the right to make its applicable books and
records available at its headquarters, to the extent necessary, but shall be
solely responsible for all costs and expenses necessary for a City
representative to travel to said headquarters for the conduct of an audit.
   G.   Periodic Evaluation And Renegotiation Sessions: The City recognizes
that the field of cable communications is a relatively new and rapidly changing
industry which may undergo many regulatory, technical, financial, marketing and
legal changes over the next decade. Therefore, in order to provide for a
maximum degree of flexibility in this Chapter, and to help achieve a continued
advanced and modern system, the following evaluation provisions will apply:
      1.   The City may require, at its sole discretion, evaluation sessions at
any time during the term of this Chapter; provided, however, there shall not be
more than one evaluation session during any twelve (12) month period.
      2.   Topics which may be discussed at any evaluation and session include,
but are not limited to, rates, channel capacity, system performance,
programming, access, Municipal uses of cable, subscriber complaints, judicial
rulings, FCC rulings, franchise fee adjustment in light of competition
utilizing right of way at a lesser fee and any other topics the City or the
operator deem relevant.
      3.   During an evaluation session, the operator shall fully cooperate
with the City and shall provide without cost such information and documents as
the City may reasonably request to perform the evaluation.
      4.   If at any time during its evaluation, the City determines that
reasonable evidence exists of inadequate system performance, the City may
require the operator to perform tests and analyses is directed toward such
suspected inadequacies at the operator's expense. The operator shall fully
cooperate with the City in performing such testing and any report prepared by
the operator shall include at least:
         a.   A description of the problem which precipitated the special
tests.
         b.   The system component tested.
         c.   The equipment used and procedures employed in testing.
         d.   The method, if any, by which the problem was resolved.
         e.   Any other information pertinent to said tests and analyses is
which may be required by the City, or determined when the test is performed.
      5.   If after receiving the operator's report the City determines that
reasonable evidence still exists of inadequate system performance, the City may
enlist an independent engineer, to perform tests and analyses is directed
toward such suspected inadequacies. If the engineer determines that system is
performing inadequately, the operator shall bear all costs and expenses
associated with the services of the engineer. If the engineer determines that
the system is performing adequately, the City shall bear all costs and expenses
associated with the services of the engineer.
      6.   As a result of an evaluation and renegotiation session, the City and
the operator may determine that changes in the terms and provision of a
franchisee may be required, that the system, ordinance requirements, or
franchise should be updated, changed, revised, or that additional services
should be provided. If the changes are consistent with the terms of this
Chapter and the needs of the City and implementation of such changes would not
unreasonably add to the cost of providing cable service, the operator and the
City will, in good faith, negotiate the terms of any changes to which the
parties agree. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-9: CONSUMER PROTECTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Approval Of Changes: The initial rates and charges for programming
services shall be set forth within each franchise granted. The City reserves
the right to regulate rates for basic service and any other services offered
over the system, pursuant to Federal or State law. The operator shall maintain
on file with the City at all times a current schedule of all rates and charges.
The operator shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions provided for
herein, and those of the Federal Communications Commission at 47 CFR, part 76,
subpart N. The City shall follow all applicable rules relating to cable rate
regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 CFR, part 76, subpart N.
   B.   Notification: Not less than thirty (30) days prior to the effective
date of any change in any fee, charge, deposit, term or condition set forth in
a franchise or permit (or such shorter period as may, upon a showing of good
cause, be approved by the City), the operator shall: 1) submit a revised
schedule of rates and charges to the City, and 2) provide notice of the
proposed change to each affected subscriber. The operator shall provide written
notice to affected subscribers prior to the imposition of a rate or fee change.
The operator shall not make any change in any rate unless it has provided the
notice required in this Section.
   C.   Consumer Protection And Customer Service: The City expressly reserves
the right to enforce FCC rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to section
632 of the Cable Act or any other applicable section of the Cable Act. The City
also reserves the right to establish and enforce any law or regulation
concerning customer service that may impose requirements exceeding standards
set by the FCC pursuant to applicable sections of the Cable Act, or which would
address matters not addressed by the standards set by the FCC pursuant to the
Cable Act.
   D.   Charges For Disconnection Or Downgrading Of Service:
      1.   The operator may impose a charge reasonably related to the cost
incurred for a downgrade of service, except that no separate charge may be
imposed when:
         a.   A subscriber requests total disconnection from the system; or
         b.   A subscriber requests the downgrade within a thirty (30) day
period following any rate increase relative to the service in question.
      2.   If a subscriber requests disconnection from cable service prior to
the effective date of an increase in rates, the subscriber shall not be charged
the increased rate if the operator fails to disconnect cable service prior to
the effective date. Any subscriber who has paid in advance for the next billing
period and who requests disconnection from cable service shall receive a
prorated refund of any amounts paid in advance.
   E.   Preferential Treatment Prohibited: The operator shall not, as to rates,
charges, service, service facilities, repairs, maintenance, rules, regulations,
or in any other respect, make or grant undue preference or advantage to any
person or business, nor subject any person or business to any prejudice or
disfavor. This section shall not preclude the operator from establishing and
implementing bulk subscriber rates or discounts or rate classifications based
upon reasonable criteria.
   F.   Subscriber Complaint Practices:
      1.   The operator shall maintain an office in Moorhead, Minnesota, or
Fargo, North Dakota, which shall be open during normal business hours. The
operator shall have a publicly listed toll free telephone number and be so
operated as to receive subscriber complaints and requests on a twenty four (24)
hour a day, seven (7) days a week basis. At a minimum, the operator shall
endeavor to connect a telephone caller to a live service representative within
thirty (30) seconds, seven (7) days per week, at least during the hours of
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The operator shall
maintain written or computer generated records demonstrating, to the
satisfaction of the city, its ability to meet these standards. A written or
computer generated log available for city inspection shall be maintained
listing all complaints and their dispositions.
      2.   The operator shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly
and interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Such interruptions, insofar as possible, shall occur during periods of minimum
use of the system. A written log available for city inspection shall be
maintained for all service interruptions.
      3.   Subscriber requests for maintenance or repairs received prior to two
o'clock (2:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, shall, whenever possible, be
performed the same day.
      4.   Subscriber requests for maintenance or repairs received after two
o'clock (2:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, shall, whenever possible be
performed within twenty four (24) hours of the request.
      5.   Subscriber requests for repairs received on Saturdays or Sundays
shall, whenever possible, be performed within twenty four (24) hours of the
request.
      6.   The operator shall respond within two (2) hours to all outage
reports affecting at least one channel for five percent (5%) or more of the
system's subscribers.
      7.   If the operator fails to correct a system outage (i.e., 10 percent
or more of the channels provided to a subscriber are not able to be received)
problem within twenty four (24) hours, the operator shall, upon request from a
subscriber, credit one- thirtieth (1/30) of the monthly charge to the
subscriber for each twenty four (24) hours or fraction thereof after the first
twenty four (24) hours during which a subscriber is with reduced service.
      8.   All money owed to a subscriber, or potential subscriber, shall be
refunded within twenty (20) working days of the operator's knowledge of the
obligation. Credit may be issued to the subscriber's account by mutual
agreement.
      9.   The operator shall provide the city with the name of its chief
management employee for the referral of complaints made to the city. (Ord. 99-
2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
   G.   Installation And Repairs: Subscribers who request installation or
repairs shall be given the schedule option of morning or afternoon
appointments. Persons requesting installation of cable service shall be
afforded a right of rescission between the time cable service is requested and
the time cable service is actually installed. When possible, all new
installations, repairs, reconnects, service upgrades or downgrades shall be
performed within seven (7) working days of the date the order was placed by the
subscriber. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-27-2014)
   H.   Subscriber Information: Upon installation, the operator shall provide
to all subscribers (and operator shall initially provide to the city) written
subscriber service information which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   The procedure for investigation and resolution of subscriber service
complaints, including the telephone number and contact person at the city who
may assist in the resolution of complaints;
      2.   Programming services, rates, and charges for all services, including
public access related charges;
      3.   Billing practices as required by subsection I of this section;
      4.   Service termination procedures;
      5.   Change in service procedures;
      6.   Refund policy;
      7.   Office hours; and
      8.   Converter/VCR hookup information and use instructions. Operator
will, within a reasonable period of time, notify all subscribers and the city
of any material changes in the above referenced service information.
   I.   Subscriber Billing Practices:
      1.   The operator shall notify each of its subscribers, through the
written service information, of its billing practices. The service information
shall describe the operator's billing practices including, but not limited to,
the following: frequency of billing, time periods upon which billing is based,
advance billing practices, security deposit requirements, charges for late
payments or returned checks, payments necessary to avoid account delinquency,
availability of credits for service outages, procedures to be followed to
request service deletions including the notice period a subscriber must give to
avoid liability for such services and procedures to be followed in the event of
a billing dispute.
      2.   The operator shall notify all affected subscribers not less than
thirty (30) days prior to any change in the billing practices and such notice
shall include a description of the changed practice.
      3.   The subscriber bill shall contain the following information
presented in plain language and format:
         a.   Name and address of the operator;
         b.   The period of time over which each chargeable service is billed
including prorated periods as a result of the establishment and termination of
cable service;
         c.   Each rate or charge levied;
         d.   The amount of the bill for the current billing period, separate
from any balance;
         e.   The operator's telephone number;
         f.   The date on which payment is due from the subscriber.
   J.   Parental Control Option: The operator shall, for a lawful fee, furnish
parental control devices to all subscribers who wish to be able to black out
any objectionable programming from the cable service entering the subscriber's
home.
   K.   Periodic Subscriber Survey: Operator will notify city of subscriber
surveys being conducted and shall allow the city, upon request, the opportunity
to review all survey results at the office of the operator. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-
1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-10: GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Franchise Fees:
      1.   The operator shall pay to the city, an annual amount equal to five
percent (5%) of its gross revenues. The foregoing payment shall be compensation
for use of streets and other public property, as well as payment for the right
to operate a cable television system in the city.
      2.   Payments due the city under this provision shall be known as
"franchise fees", shall be computed monthly and shall be paid on or before the
thirtieth calendar day following the last day of the previous month to the city
during regular business hours. Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief
report showing the basis for the computation and such other relevant facts as
may be required by the city. The city may provide a procedure for the
electronic payment of franchise fees under this subsection.
      3.   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that
the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of
payment be construed as a release of any claim the city may have for further or
additional sums payable under the provisions of this chapter, or for the
performance of any other obligation hereunder. All amounts paid shall be
subject to audit and recomputation by the city.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days of a request by the city, the operator shall
provide the city with a certification of the gross revenues for the preceding
year, signed by a director of the operator and that fairly and accurately
presents the gross revenues of the operator for the year. The calculation of
the five percent (5%) fee shall be clearly shown as part of this certification
in a form approved by the city. This certification shall be used to determine
the exact amount of payments due the city and to correct any overpayments or
underpayments by the operator.
      5.   All payments to the city shall be by check, made payable to the city
of Moorhead, and delivered or sent by mail to the city clerk, or by a procedure
provided by the city for electronic payment.
      6.   In the event any payment is not made on the due date, interest on
the amount due shall accrue from such date at the annual rate permitted by
Minnesota Statutes Annotated, section 334.01 and set out in the franchise
agreement.
   B.   Capital Support: Capital support from the operator will be in an amount
equal to up to one-half percent (1/2%) of the operator's gross revenues. This
amount will be computed and paid in the same manner and on the same schedule as
the franchise fees set forth in subsection A of this section and will be
subject to the right of the city to inspect, audit and recompute at their
option, in the same manner as are franchise fees. The amount of capital support
may be passed through to the customers by the operator at the operator's
discretion. The capital support specified herein will be used by the city for
access channel capital costs, including, but not limited to: capital costs for
equipment; studio facilities; studio and portable production equipment; and
editing equipment and program playback equipment.
   C.   Not Franchise Fees:
      1.   The operator expressly acknowledges and agrees that except for the
payments expressly required by subsection A of this section, none of the
payments or contributions made by, or the services, equipment, facilities,
support, resources, or other activities to be provided or performed by the
operator at the direction of the city or otherwise pursuant to this chapter, or
otherwise in connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, or
upgrade of the system (including specifically, but not by way of limitation,
such payments, contributions, services, equipment, facilities, support,
resources, or other activities as described in or provided for in this chapter
and the exhibits hereto) are franchise fees chargeable against the compensation
payments to be paid to the city by the operator pursuant to subsection A of
this section.
      2.   The operator expressly acknowledges and agrees that the compensation
payments due from the operator to the city pursuant to subsection A of this
section, shall take precedence over all other payments, contributions,
services, equipment, facilities, support, resources, or other activities to be
paid or supplied by the operator pursuant to this chapter and the compensation
and other payments to be made pursuant to subsection A of this section shall
not be deemed to be in the nature of a tax, and shall be in addition to any and
all taxes of general applicability or other fees or charges which the operator
shall be required to pay to the city or to any state or federal agency or
authority, all of which shall be separate and distinct obligations of the
operator.
      3.   The operator shall not have or make any claim for any deduction or
other credit of all or any part of the amount of the compensation or other
payments to be made pursuant to this chapter from or against any city or other
governmental taxes of general applicability or other fees or charges which the
operator is required to pay to the city or other governmental agencies. This
subsection does not apply to excavation permit fees as those fees are included
in the definition of franchise fees.
      4.   The operator shall not apply or seek to apply all or any part of the
amount of the compensation or other payments to be made pursuant to this
chapter as a deduction or other credit from or against any city or other
government taxes of general applicability which shall be deemed to be separate
and distinct obligations of the operator.
      5.   The operator shall not apply or seek to apply all or any part of the
amount of any city or other governmental taxes or other fees or charges,
including permit fees for excavation, of general applicability as a deduction
or other credit from or against any of the compensation or other payments to be
made pursuant to this chapter, each of which shall be deemed to be separate and
distinct obligations of the operator.
      6.   In the event the operator applies or seeks to apply all or any part
of the amount of said compensation payments as a deduction or other credit from
or against such city or other governmental taxes of general applicability or
other fees or charges, or in the event that the operator applies or seeks to
apply all or any part of the amount of such taxes or other fees or charges as a
deduction or other credit from or against said compensation obligations, the
city may terminate operator's franchise for cause due to a material breach,
pursuant to subsection K of this section, without any liability or compensation
to the operator.
   D.   Performance Bond:
      1.   The city may, in its sole reasonable discretion, require an operator
to furnish and file with the city a performance bond to ensure the faithful
performance by operator of all construction requirements contained in this
chapter and any franchise granted hereunder. The bond shall run to the city in
the penal sum of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). The
rights reserved to the city with respect to the bond are in addition to all
other rights the city may have under the ordinance or any other law. The
company providing such bond must be licensed to do business in the state.
      2.   Following the completion of any construction as determined by the
city in accordance with subsection 1-12-6B of this chapter, the requirement to
maintain said bond referred to above shall be eliminated.
      3.   The bond shall be subject to the approval of the city and shall
contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be canceled without
the consent of the City until sixty (60) days after receipt by the City by
registered mail, return receipt requested, of a written notice of intent to
cancel or not to renew.
   E.   Security Fund:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of the franchise
agreement, operator shall establish a "security fund" by establishing with a
financial institution, approved by the city, either a letter of credit or
escrow account in the amount of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). Any
written instrument evidencing the security fund shall be subject to the
approval of the city.
      2.   In the event the operator fails to perform any obligation under this
chapter or any franchise granted hereunder, the city shall provide thirty (30)
days' written notice to the operator of such failure. If, after such thirty
(30) days the failure remains uncured, and the city has been compelled to pay
any damages, costs or expenses, or has not received a payment from the operator
as required by this chapter, the city shall provide written notice of the
amount of such payment to the operator. If within ten (10) days after
operator's receipt of written notice of such payment, the operator fails to
reimburse the city, then the city may withdraw the amount of such payment from
the security fund.
      3.   Within ten (10) days after such withdrawal, the city shall provide
operator with written notice of the date and amount of such withdrawal. Within
ten (10) days from receipt of such notice that any amount has been withdrawn,
the operator shall deposit a sum of money sufficient to restore such security
fund to the required amount.
      4.   At a minimum, the letter of credit or escrow account shall: a)
provide that it shall not be canceled without the prior written consent of the
city, and b) not require the consent of operator prior to the collection by the
city of any amounts covered by the said security fund. The security fund shall
be maintained, at operator's sole expense, through the term of the franchise.
      5.   Interest on the amount in the security fund shall accrue to the
benefit of the operator and may be withdrawn by operator.
      6.   The city reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to reduce the
required amount of the security fund. Upon any termination of the franchise,
operator shall be entitled to the return of the security fund, or portion
thereof as remains on deposit at such termination. In the event operator
continues to operate the system following any termination, then operator shall
not be entitled to a return of the security fund until the end of such
continued operation.
      7.   This subsection applies only to new operators. It does not apply to
operators who are existing providers and who have an established track record
with the city.
   F.   Damages And Defense:
      1.   As between the city and the operator, the operator shall be
responsible for any liability of the city, including, without limitation, any
officer, employee, or agent of the city, arising out of or in connection with
the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the
system by the operator or its subcontractors, or the distribution of any
service over the system. The operator shall, at its own cost and expense,
replace, repair, or restore any damaged property to its prior condition and
shall pay appropriate compensation in the event of any wrongful injury to or
death of any individual person occasioned by any negligent act or failure to
act of the operator, or any officer, employee, agent, or subcontractor thereof,
in connection with the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, upgrade or
removal of the system.
      2.   The city, its officers, employees, agents, attorneys, consultants
and independent contractors, shall not be liable for any liability of the
operator, or any other person, arising out of or in connection with the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of, or other
action or event with respect to, the system, or the distribution of any service
over the system.
      3.   The city may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster, or other
emergency, as determined by the city, in its sole discretion, cut or move any
of the wires, cables, amplifiers, appliances, or other parts of the system, in
which event the city shall not incur any liability to the operator or any other
person. When possible, the operator shall be consulted prior to any such
cutting or movement of its wires and be given the opportunity to perform such
work itself. All costs to repair or replace such wires, cables, amplifiers,
appliances, or other parts of the system shall be borne by the operator unless
state law provides otherwise.
      4.   The city, its officers, employees, agents, attorneys, consultants
and independent contractors shall have no liability to the operator or any
other person for any special, incidental, consequential, punitive, or other
damages as a result of the lawful exercise of any right of the city pursuant to
this chapter, or any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter or applicable
law, including the rights of the city to grant, terminate, amend, or otherwise
modify all or any part of this chapter, or any franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      5.   The operator shall:
         a.   Defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city, its officers,
employees, agents, attorneys, consultants and independent contractors from and
against all liabilities, special, incidental, consequential, punitive, and all
other damage, cost, and expense (including reasonable attorney fees) arising
out of or in connection with any and all negligent acts of the operator in:
            (1)   The award or renewal of a franchise;
            (2)   The construction, operation, maintenance, repair, upgrade or
removal of the system; or
            (3)   The distribution of any service over the system.
         b.   Cooperate with the city, by providing nonfinancial assistance in
connection with any claim arising out of or in connection with the adoption of
this chapter or the granting of a franchise.
      6.   As between the city and the operator, the foregoing liability and
indemnity obligations of the operator pursuant to this section shall not apply
to:
         a.   Any wilful misconduct or gross negligence of any city officer,
employee, agent, attorney, consultant or independent contractor;
         b.   Any liability arising out of the distribution of services over
the governmental channels to the extent that the operator has not performed or
failed to perform any act forming the basis of such claim;
         c.   Any liability arising out of the distribution of services over
public channels to the extent that the operator has not performed or failed to
perform any other act forming the basis of such claim; or
         d.   Any liability arising out of the city's use of the emergency
alert system.
   G.   Liability Insurance:
      1.   The operator shall, at its own cost and expense, obtain a liability
insurance policy or policies, together with evidence in the form of a
certificate of insurance, demonstrating that the premiums for said policy or
policies have been paid and evidencing that said policy or policies shall take
effect and be furnished at or before the granting of a franchise. Such
companies must carry a rating by best of not less than "A-". Such policy or
policies shall be issued by companies duly licensed to do business in the
state. Such policy or policies shall insure the company and the city and its
officers, boards, commissions, elected officials, agents, and employees
(through appropriate endorsements if necessary) against each and every form of
liability of the company referred to in subsection F of this section in the
minimum combined amount of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for bodily
injury and property damage. The foregoing minimum limitation shall not prohibit
the operator from obtaining a liability insurance policy or policies in excess
of such limitations, provided that the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
elected officials, agents, and employees shall be named as additional insureds
to the full extent of any limitation contained in any such policy or policies
obtained by the operator.
      2.   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the operator throughout the term of any franchise and such other
period of time during which the operator operates or is engaged in the removal
of the system. Each such liability insurance policy shall contain the following
endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until sixty (60) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail, of a written notice of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the operator
shall obtain and furnish to the city, replacement insurance policies.
      3.   The legal liability of the operator to the city and any person for
any of the matters which are the subject of the liability insurance policies
required by this section, including, without limitation, the operator's
indemnification obligation set forth in subsection F of this section, shall not
be limited by such insurance policies nor by the recovery of any amounts
thereunder, except to the extent necessary to avoid duplicative recovery from
or payment by the operator.
   H.   Limitation Of Liability:
      1.   In any court proceeding involving any claim against the city or any
official, member, employee, or agent of the city, arising from the regulation
of cable service or from a decision of approval or disapproval with respect to
a grant, renewal, transfer or amendment of a permit, any relief, to the extent
such relief is required by any other provision of federal, state, or local law,
shall be limited to injunctive relief and declaratory relief.
      2.   The limitation contained in subsection H1 of this section shall not
apply to actions that, prior to such violation, have been determined by a final
order of a court of binding jurisdiction, no longer subject to appeal, to be in
violation of an operator's rights.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting the relief
authorized with respect to any claim against the city or any official, member,
employee, or agent of the city, to the extent such claim involves
discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national
origin, or handicap.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as creating or
authorizing liability of any kind, under any law, for any action or failure to
act relating to cable service or the granting of a franchise by the city, or
any official, member, employee, or agent of the city.
   I.   City's Right To Revoke: In addition to all other rights which the city
has pursuant to law or equity, the city reserves the right to revoke, terminate
or cancel any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, and all rights and
privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that, through wilful failure,
refusal or neglect:
      1.   The operator substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter; or
      2.   The operator attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter
and refuses to cure it; or
      3.   The operator is found guilty of practicing any fraud or deceit upon
the city or any subscriber; or
      4.   The operator becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its
debts, or is adjudged as bankrupt; or
      5.   The operator knowingly misrepresents a material fact in the
application for or negotiation of, or renegotiation of, or renewal of, any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   J.   Enforcement Of Franchise Provisions: In addition to any other remedies
provided herein, the city may require operator to appear before the city to
address any alleged violations of the terms and conditions of this chapter, or
any franchise granted hereunder. The city shall provide operator thirty (30)
days' advance written notice of such a meeting, which notice shall include a
detailed description of any alleged violation. Operator shall be prepared to
explain the circumstances regarding such alleged violation, including any
actions taken by operator to cure such alleged violations or other relevant
facts. If city is dissatisfied with the responses received from operator, it
may exercise any other rights available to it under the terms and provisions of
this chapter, any franchise granted hereunder, or applicable local, state and
federal law.
   K.   Revocation Procedures: In the event that the city determines that the
operator has violated any provision of this chapter, or any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, the city may make a written demand on the operator
that it remedy such violation and that continued violation may be cause for
revocation of said operator's franchise. If the violation, breach, failure,
refusal, or neglect is not remedied or commenced to be remedied to the
reasonable satisfaction of the city within thirty (30) days following such
demand, the city shall determine whether or not such violation, breach,
failure, refusal or neglect by the operator is due to acts of God or other
causes which result from circumstances beyond the operator's control.
      1.   A public hearing shall be held and the operator shall be provided
with an opportunity to be heard upon fourteen (14) days' written notice to the
operator of the time and the place of the hearing. The causes for pending
revocation and the reasons alleged to constitute such cause shall be recited in
the notice. Said notice shall affirmatively recite the causes that need to be
shown by the city to support a revocation.
      2.   If notice is given and, at the operator's option, after a full
public proceeding is held, the city determines there is a violation, breach,
failure, refusal or neglect by the operator, the city shall direct the operator
to correct or remedy the same within such reasonable additional time, in such
manner and upon such reasonable terms and conditions as city may direct.
      3.   If after a public hearing it is determined that the operator's
performance of any of the terms, conditions, obligations of the franchise or
this chapter, or any requirements of law, was prevented or impaired due to any
cause beyond its reasonable control or not reasonably foreseeable, such
inability to perform shall be deemed to be excused and no penalties or
sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof, provided the operator has
notified city in writing within a reasonable period of time of its discovery of
the occurrence of such an event and the realization of the event's impact on
franchise performance. Such causes beyond the operator's reasonable control or
not reasonably foreseeable shall include, but shall not be limited to, acts of
God and civil emergencies.
      4.   If, after notice is given and, at the operator's option, a full
public proceeding is held, the city determines there was a violation, breach,
failure, refusal or neglect, then the city may declare, by resolution, the
franchise revoked and canceled and of no further force and effect unless there
is compliance within such period as city may fix, such period not to be less
than thirty (30) days, provided no opportunity for compliance need be granted
for fraud or misrepresentation.
      5.   The issue of revocation shall automatically be placed upon the city
council agenda at the expiration of the time set by it for compliance. The city
then may terminate the operator's franchise forthwith upon finding that the
operator has failed to achieve compliance or may further extend the period, in
its discretion.
      6.   If the city, after notice is given and, at the operator's option, a
full public proceeding is held and appeal is exhausted, declares the franchise
breached, the parties may pursue their remedies pursuant to this chapter or any
other remedy, legal or equitable.
      7.   Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the city declares an
operator's franchise terminated, and regardless of the exercise of any right of
the city hereunder, the operator may sell, remove or (by means divesting
operator of all right, title, and interest) transfer the entire system of
operator, subject to the provisions of subsection 1-12-12B of this chapter, and
upon any such sale or transfer in addition to any of the rights hereunder or
otherwise, city shall have a lien (next in order of preference to any liens or
encumbrances existing of record on the date of such termination) against any
and all proceeds thereof, and against the system of operator, in the full
amount of any loss, cost, expense or other financial detriment incurred by the
city in the exercise of any right hereunder, or by reason of such termination.
      8.   In the event operator shall fail or refuse to sell, remove or
transfer the entire system of operator, as hereinabove provided, and regardless
of the exercise of any other right of city hereunder, then by operation of law,
all of the properties, facilities, records, files, rights, privileges, powers,
authorities and immunities of operator, which are part of the system of
operator, shall become the property of the city, subject to any and all valid
liens or encumbrances of record, and the system shall belong to the city; and
operator shall cause to be executed, acknowledged and delivered to the city,
upon demand therefor, such instruments as the city attorney shall prescribe and
approve, evidencing or affecting the ownership or control of any of the same in
the city.
      9.   In the event the system shall become the property of the city, as
herein provided, then city may solicit and call for offers to purchase such
system, by bid process; providing, that city may, in the manner provided in
subsection 1-12-7C of this chapter, solicit and call for offers and
applications for a franchise, and may specify, as a term and condition thereof,
that any such offer and application shall include the purchase of such system
from city.
      10.   Nothing herein shall be construed to obligate or require city to
exercise any right of city hereunder, and city shall at no time be obligated or
required to undertake or assume the ownership or operation of any system, or to
provide any services. (Ord. 2014-04, 5-27-2014)
1-12-11: FORECLOSURE, RECEIVERSHIP AND ABANDONMENT:
   A.   Foreclosure: Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of the system,
the operator shall notify the city of such fact and such notification shall be
treated as a notification that a change in control of the operator has taken
place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the consent to transfer or
change in ownership shall apply without regard to how such transfer or change
in ownership occurred.
   B.   Receivership: The city shall have the right to cancel any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter subject to any applicable provisions of state
law, including the bankruptcy act, one hundred twenty (120) days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of
the operator, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other
action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been
vacated prior to the expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) days, or
unless:
      1.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after his election or
appointment, such receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the
provisions of this chapter, and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      2.   Such receiver or trustee, within said one hundred twenty (120) days,
shall have executed an agreement, duly approved by the court having
jurisdiction in the premises, whereby such receiver or trustee assumes and
agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this chapter.
   C.   Abandonment: The operator may not abandon any portion of the system
without having first given three (3) months' written notice to the city. The
operator may not abandon any portion of the system without compensating the
city for reasonable, actual damages resulting from the abandonment. (Ord. 99-2,
4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-12: REMOVAL, TRANSFER AND PURCHASE:
   A.   Removal After Revocation, Expiration, Or Nonrenewal:
      1.   If an operator's request for renewal is denied or at the expiration
of the term for which any franchise is granted, or upon its revocation, as
provided for in subsection 1-12-10K of this chapter, the city shall have the
right to require the operator to remove, at the operator's expense, all or any
portion of the system from all streets and public property within the city. In
so removing the system, the operator shall refill and compact at its own
expense, any excavation that shall be made and shall leave all streets, public
property and private property in as good a condition as that prevailing prior
to the operator's removal of the system. In so removing the system, operator
shall use its best efforts not to affect, alter or disturb in any way electric,
telephone or utility cables, wires or attachments. Operator shall be
responsible for any damage which occurs during said removal. The City, or its
designee, shall have the right to inspect and approve the condition of such
streets and public property after removal. The Security Fund, insurance,
indemnity and penalty provisions of this Chapter shall remain in full force and
effect during the entire term of removal.
      2.   If, in the sole discretion of the City, the operator has failed to
commence removal of the system, or such part thereof as was designated within
thirty (30) days after written notice of the City's demand for removal is
given, or if the operator has failed to complete such removal within one year
after written notice of the City's demand for removal is given, the City shall
have the right to exercise one of the following options:
         a.   Declare all right, title and interest to the system to be in the
City or its designee with all rights of ownership including, but not limited
to, the right to operate the system or transfer the system to another for
operation by it; or
         b.   Declare the system abandoned and cause the system, or such part
thereof as the City shall designate, to be removed at no cost to the City. The
cost of said removal shall be recoverable from the operator.
   B.   Sale Or Transfer:
      1.   The right of an operator under this Chapter or any franchise granted
pursuant to this Chapter, shall not be sold, assigned or transferred, either in
whole or in part, or leased or sublet in any manner, nor shall title thereto,
either legal or equitable, or any right, interest or property therein, pass to
or vest in any person without full compliance with the procedure set forth in
this Section.
      2.   The provisions of this Section shall apply to the sale or transfer
of all or a majority of the operator's assets, merger (excluding any parent or
subsidiary corporation), consolidation, creation of a subsidiary corporation or
sale or transfer of stock in the operator so as to create a new controlling
interest. The term "controlling interest" as used herein is not limited to
majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
         a.   The parties to the sale or transfer shall make a written request
to the City for its approval of a sale or transfer. The written request shall
include or be accompanied by all information required by the City or required
in accordance with FCC rules and regulations.
         b.   The City shall reply in writing within thirty (30) days of the
request and shall indicate approval of the request or its determination that a
public hearing is necessary due to potential adverse effect on the operator's
subscribers.
         c.   If a public hearing is deemed necessary, such hearing shall be
commenced within thirty (30) days of such determination and notice of any such
hearing shall be given fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing by publishing
notice thereof. The notice shall contain the date, time and place of the
hearing and shall briefly state the substance of the action to be considered by
the City.
         d.   Within thirty (30) days after the closing of the public hearing,
the City shall approve or deny in writing the sale or transfer request.
         e.   Within thirty (30) days of any transfer, the operator shall file
with the City a copy of the deed, agreement, mortgage, lease or other written
instrument evidencing such sale, transfer of ownership or control or lease,
certified and sworn to as correct by the operator. The operator may label
documents proprietary and confidential when necessary and legally appropriate.
      3.   In reviewing a request for sale or transfer pursuant to this
Section, the City may inquire into the legal, technical and financial
qualifications of the prospective controlling party, and the operator shall
assist the City in so inquiring. The City may condition said transfer upon such
terms and conditions as it deems reasonably appropriate; provided, however, the
City shall not unreasonably withhold its approval. In no event shall a transfer
or assignment of ownership or control be approved without the transferee
becoming a signator to the franchise. In no event shall the City exceed one
hundred twenty (120) days in approving or denying an operator's written
request, or such request shall be deemed granted unless there is a mutual
agreement for extension of time.
   C.   Purchase By City Upon Revocation Or Nonrenewal:
      1.   Upon nonrenewal of a franchise, the City may, in lawful manner and
upon the payment of fair-market value, determined on the basis of the system
valued as a going concern but with no value allocated to the franchise itself,
lawfully acquire the system or effect a transfer consistent with the provisions
of this Chapter.
      2.   Upon the revocation of a franchise, the City may, in lawful manner
and upon the payment of an equitable price, lawfully acquire the system or
effect a transfer of ownership of system to another person. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-
1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-13: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED:
   A.   Discriminatory Practices Prohibited: The operator shall not deny
service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate against subscribers, or general
citizens on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, or age.
The operator shall comply at all times with all other applicable Federal, State
and City laws, and all executive and administrative orders relating to
nondiscrimination.
   B.   Subscriber Privacy: The operator, the City, and any other person or
organization utilizing the cable system, shall strictly observe and comply with
the privacy provisions of the Cable Act and State and Federal law. (Ord. 99-2,
4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
1-12-14: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Laws: The operator and the City shall conform to all
State and Federal laws and rules regarding cable television as they become
effective, unless otherwise stated. The operator shall also conform with all
the City ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations heretofore or hereafter
adopted or established during the entire term of this Chapter.
   B.   Continuity Of Service Mandatory: Upon expiration or the termination of
a franchise, the City may require the operator to continue to operate the
system for an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months. The
operator shall, as trustee for its successor in interest, continue to operate
the system under the terms and conditions of this Chapter. In the event the
operator does not so operate the system, the City may take such steps as it, in
its sole discretion, deems necessary to assure continued service to
subscribers.
   C.   Work Performed By Others:
      1.   The operator shall, upon request, give notice to the City specifying
the names and addresses of any other entity, other than the operator, which
performs services pursuant to this Chapter, provided, however, that all
provisions of this Chapter shall remain the responsibility of the operator, and
the operator shall be responsible for and hold the City harmless for any claims
or liability arising out of work performed by persons other than the operator
pursuant to subsection 1-12-10F of this Chapter.
      2.   All provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any subcontractor or
others performing any work or services pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter.
   D.   Compliance With Federal, State And Local Laws:
      1.   If any Federal or State law or regulation requires or permits the
operator to perform any service or act or shall prohibit the operator from
performing any service or act which may be in conflict with the terms of this
Chapter, then as soon as possible following knowledge thereof, the operator or
City shall notify the other of the point of conflict believed to exist between
such law or regulation. The operator shall at all times comply with all
applicable laws and ordinances enacted by the City.
      2.   If any term, condition or provision of this Chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be held
to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder hereof and the application of
such term, condition or provision to persons or circumstances other than those
as to whom it shall be held invalid or unenforceable shall not be affected
thereby, and this Chapter and all the terms, provisions and conditions hereof
shall, in all other respects, continue to be effective and to be complied with.
In the event that such law, rule or regulation is subsequently repealed,
rescinded, amended or otherwise changed so that the provision which had been
held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with the law, rules and
regulations then in effect, said provision shall thereupon return to full force
and effect and shall thereafter be binding on the operator and the City.
   E.   Nonenforcement By City: The operator shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter by reason of
any failure of the City to enforce prompt compliance.
   F.   Force Majeure: Whenever a period of time is provided for in this
Chapter for either the City or an operator to do or perform any act or
obligation, neither party shall be liable through causes beyond the control of
such party, such as unavoidable delays in the issuance of utility company
permits, licenses, authorizations and approvals; delays caused by utility
company work required to be completed prior to activation; war; riot;
insurrection; rebellion; strike; lockout; unavoidable casualty or damage to
personnel, materials or equipment; fire; flood; storm; earthquake; tornado;
orders of a court of competent jurisdiction; or any act of God, and upon the
occurrence of any such event, that time period shall be extended for the amount
of time said party is so delayed.
   G.   Miscellaneous Violations:
      1.   From and after the acceptance of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to establish, operate or to carry on the business of
distributing to any persons in the City any television signals or radio signals
by means of a system using public rights of way unless a permit therefor has
first been obtained pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, and unless such
permit is in full force and effect.
      2.   From and after the acceptance of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, install or maintain within any street in the City,
or within any other public property of the City, or within any privately owned
area within the City which has not yet become a public street but is designated
or delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative subdivision map
approved by the City, or the City's Official Map or the City's major
thoroughfare plan, any equipment or facilities for distributing any television
signals or radio signals through a system, unless a permit authorizing such use
of such street or property or areas has first been obtained.
   H.   Emergency Use: In the case of any emergency or disaster, the operator
shall, upon request of the City, make available its system and related
facilities to the City for emergency use during the emergency or disaster
period.
   I.   Controlling Law: This Chapter shall be construed and enforced in
accordance with the substantive laws of the State.
   J.   Captions: The catchlines and headings in this Chapter are for
convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the
meaning of interpretation of this Chapter.
   K.   Calculation Of Time: Where the performance or doing of any act, duty,
matter, payment or thing is required hereunder and the period of time or
duration for the performance or during thereof is prescribed and fixed herein,
the time shall be computed so as to exclude the first and include the last day
of the prescribed or fixed period or duration of time. When the last day of the
period falls on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be omitted
from the computation. (Ord. 99-2, 4-5-1999, eff. 4-19-1999)
CHAPTER 13
REGULATION OF GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
1-13-1: Regulation Of Nonexclusive Gas Franchise
1-13-2: Short Title
1-13-3: Definitions
1-13-4: Adoption Of Franchise
1-13-5: Location, Other Regulations
1-13-6: Relocations
1-13-7: Tree Trimming
1-13-8: Indemnification
1-13-9: Vacation Of Public Ways
1-13-10: Change In Form Of Government
1-13-11: Franchise Fee
1-13-12: Provisions Of Chapter
1-13-13: Amendment Procedure
1-13-14: Previous Franchises Superseded
1-13-1: REGULATION OF NONEXCLUSIVE GAS FRANCHISE:
Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, DBA Xcel Energy, its
successors and assigns, is hereby granted permission to erect a gas
distribution system for the purposes of constructing, operating, repairing and
maintaining in the city of Moorhead, Minnesota, the necessary gas pipes, mains
and appurtenances for the transmission or distribution of gas to the city and
its inhabitants and others and transmitting gas into and through the city and
to use the public grounds and public ways of the city for such purposes. (Ord.
2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter will be known and cited as the CITY OF MOORHEAD GAS FRANCHISE
ORDINANCE, hereinafter referred to as this "chapter". (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined will be given their common and ordinary
meanings.
CITY: The city of Moorhead, county of Clay, state of Minnesota.
CITY UTILITY SYSTEM: Facilities used for providing nonenergy related public
utility service owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer
and water service, but excluding facilities for providing heating, lighting or
other forms of energy.
COMMISSION: The Minnesota public utilities commission, or any successor agency
or agencies, including an agency of the federal government, which preempts all,
or part of the authority to regulate gas retail rates now vested in the
Minnesota public utilities commission.
COMPANY: Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, DBA Xcel
Energy, its successors and assigns.
GAS: Shall be held to include natural gas, manufactured gas, or other form of
gaseous energy.
GAS FACILITIES: Pipes, mains, regulators, and other facilities owned or
operated by company for the purpose of providing gas service for public use.
GROSS REVENUE: All revenue derived by company from the operation of the gas
facilities in the franchise area to provide gas, and from any future additions
thereto and betterments thereof, including all income and receipts derived from
rates, fees and charges for services, facilities, products and byproducts of
the gas furnished or sold to the city and its inhabitants and all other
customers. Gross revenue does not include refundable deposits, bad debt, late
fees, investment income, programming launch support payments, advertising sales
commissions, nor any taxes, fees or assessments imposed or assessed by any
governmental authority.
NOTICE: A written notice served by one party on the other party referencing one
or more provisions of this chapter. Notice to company shall be mailed to the
general counsel, 414 Nicollet Mall, 5th Floor, Minneapolis, MN 55401. Notice to
the city shall be mailed to the city manager, city hall, 500 Center Avenue,
P.O. Box 779, Moorhead, MN 56561-0779. Either party may change its respective
address for the purpose of this chapter by written notice to the other party.
PUBLIC GROUND: Land owned by the city for park, open space or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, walkway or other public right of way within the
city. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-4: ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant Of Franchise: The city hereby grants company, for a period of
twenty (20) years from the date this chapter is passed and approved by the
city, and a franchise agreement has been approved by the city, whichever occurs
later, the right to transmit and furnish gas energy for light, heat, power and
other purposes for public and private use within and through the limits of the
city as its boundaries now exist or as they may be extended in the future. For
these purposes, company may construct, operate, repair and maintain gas
facilities in, on, over, under and across the public grounds and public ways of
the city, subject to the provisions of this chapter. Company may do all
reasonable things necessary or customary to accomplish these purposes, subject,
however, to such reasonable regulations as may be imposed by the city pursuant
to ordinance and to provisions of a separate franchise agreement.
   B.   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: A separate franchise agreement may
become effective from and after passage of this chapter, its acceptance by
company, and its publication as required by law. The city, by council
resolution, may revoke the franchise agreement if company does not file a
written acceptance with the city within ninety (90) days after publication.
   C.   Service And Rates: The service to be provided and the rates to be
charged by company for gas service in the city are subject to the jurisdiction
of the commission.
   D.   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this chapter will be
paid by the city and the city will be reimbursed by company.
   E.   Dispute Resolution: If either party asserts that the other party is in
default in the performance of any obligation of a franchise agreement or in
violation of this chapter, the complaining party shall notify the other party
of the default and the desired remedy. The notification must be written.
Representatives of the parties must promptly meet and attempt in good faith to
negotiate a resolution of the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days of the written notice, the parties may jointly select a
mediator to facilitate further discussion. The parties will equally share the
fees and expenses of this mediator. If a mediator is not used or if the parties
are unable to resolve the dispute within thirty (30) days after first meeting
with the selected mediator, either party may commence an action in district
court to interpret and enforce this franchise or for such other relief as may
be permitted by law or equity for breach of contract, or either party may take
any other action permitted by law. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-5: LOCATION, OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: Gas facilities will be located, constructed and
maintained so as not to interfere with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel along and over public ways and so as not to disrupt normal operation of
any city utility system previously installed therein. Gas facilities will be
located on public grounds as determined by the city. Company's construction,
reconstruction, operation, repair, maintenance and location of gas facilities
will be subject to permits if required by separate ordinance and to other
reasonable regulations of the city to the extent consistent with the terms of a
separate franchise agreement. Company may abandon underground gas facilities in
place. Upon request by the city, company will remove abandoned metal pipe
interfering with a city improvement project, but only to the extent such metal
pipe is uncovered by excavation as part of the city's improvement project.
   B.   Field Locations: Company will provide field locations for its
underground gas facilities within city consistent with the requirements of
Minnesota statutes chapter 216D.
   C.   Street Openings: Company will not open or disturb any public ground or
public way for any purpose without first having obtained a permit from the
city, if required by a separate ordinance, for which the city may impose a
reasonable fee. Permit conditions imposed on company will not be more
burdensome than those imposed on other utilities for similar facilities or
work. Company may, however, open and disturb any public ground or public way
without permission from the city where an emergency exists requiring the
immediate repair of gas facilities. In such event, company shall notify the
city by telephone to the office designated by the city as soon as practicable.
Not later than the second working day thereafter, company shall obtain any
required permits and pay any required fees.
   D.   Restoration: After undertaking any work requiring the opening of any
public ground or public way, company shall restore the same, including paving
and its foundation, to as good a condition as formerly existed, and shall
maintain any paved surface in good condition for two (2) years thereafter. The
work must be completed as promptly as weather permits, and if company does not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
materials, and put the public ground or public way in the said condition, the
city has, after demand to company to cure and the passage of a reasonable
period of time following the demand, but not to exceed five (5) days, the right
to make the restoration at the expense of company. Company shall pay to the
city the cost of such work done for or performed by the city. This remedy will
be in addition to any other remedy available to the city for noncompliance with
this subsection, but the city hereby waives any requirement for company to post
a construction performance bond, certificate of insurance, letter of credit or
any other form of security or assurance that may be required, under a separate
existing or future ordinance of the city, of a person or entity obtaining the
city's permission to install, replace or maintain facilities in a public way.
   E.   Avoid Damage To Gas Facilities: Nothing in this chapter relieves any
person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to
avoid damaging gas facilities while performing any activity.
   F.   Notice Of Improvements: The city must give company notice of plans for
improvements to public grounds or public ways where the city has reason to
believe that gas facilities may affect or be affected by the improvement. The
notice must contain: 1) the nature and character of the improvements, 2) the
public grounds and public ways upon which the improvements are to be made, 3)
the extent of the improvements, 4) the time when the city will start the work,
and 5) if more than one public ground or public way is involved, the order in
which the work is to proceed. The notice must be given to company a sufficient
length of time in advance of the actual commencement of the work to permit
company to make any necessary additions, alterations or repairs to its gas
facilities. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-6: RELOCATIONS:
   A.   Relocation Of Gas Facilities In Public Ways: If the city determines to
vacate a public way for a city improvement project, or at the city's cost to
grade, regrade, or change the line of any public way, or construct or
reconstruct any city utility system in any public way, it may order company to
relocate its gas facilities located therein if relocation is reasonably
necessary to accomplish the city's proposed public improvement. Except as
provided in subsection C of this section, company shall relocate its gas
facilities at its own expense. The city shall give company reasonable notice of
plans to vacate for a city improvement project, or to grade, regrade, or change
the line of any public way or to construct or reconstruct any city utility
system. If a relocation is ordered within five (5) years of a prior relocation
of the same gas facilities, which was made at company expense, the city shall
reimburse company for nonbetterment costs on a time and material basis,
provided that if a subsequent relocation is required because of the extension
of a city utility system to a previously unserved area, company may be required
to make the subsequent relocation at its expense. Nothing in this chapter
requires company to relocate, remove, replace or reconstruct at its own expense
its gas facilities where such relocation, removal, replacement or
reconstruction is solely for the convenience of the city and it is not
reasonably necessary for the construction or reconstruction of a public way or
city utility system or other city improvement.
   B.   Relocation Of Gas Facilities In Public Ground: The city may require
company at company's expense to relocate or remove its gas facilities from
public ground upon a finding by the city that the gas facilities have become or
will become a substantial impairment to the existing or proposed public use of
the public ground.
   C.   Projects With Federal Funding: The city will not order company to
remove or relocate its gas facilities when a public way is vacated, improved or
realigned for a right of way project or any other project which is financially
subsidized in whole or in part by the federal government or any agency thereof,
unless the reasonable nonbetterment costs of such relocation are first paid to
company. The city is obligated to pay company only for those portions of its
relocation costs for which the city has received federal funding specifically
allocated for relocation costs in the amount requested by company, which
allocated funding the city shall specifically request. Relocation, removal or
rearrangement of any company gas facilities made necessary because of a
federally aided highway project will be governed by the provisions of Minnesota
statutes section 161.46, as supplemented or amended. It is understood that the
rights herein granted to company are valuable rights.
   D.   No Waiver: The provisions of this franchise apply only to facilities
constructed in reliance on a franchise from the city and shall not be construed
to waive or modify any rights obtained by company for installations within a
company right of way acquired by easement or prescriptive right before the
applicable public ground or public way was established, or company's rights
under state or county permit. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-7: TREE TRIMMING:
Company is also granted the permission and authority to trim all shrubs and
trees, including roots, in the public ways of the city to the extent company
finds necessary to avoid interference with the proper construction, operation,
repair and maintenance of gas facilities, provided that company shall save the
city harmless from any liability in the premises. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-8: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Indemnity Of City: Company shall indemnify, keep and hold the city free
and harmless from any and all liability on account of injury to persons or
damage to property occasioned by the construction, maintenance, repair,
inspection, the issuance of permits, or the operation of the gas facilities
located in the public grounds and public ways. The city will not be indemnified
for losses or claims occasioned through its own negligence except for losses or
claims arising out of or alleging the city's negligence as to the issuance of
permits for, or inspection of, company's plans or work. The city will not be
indemnified if the injury or damage results from the performance in a proper
manner of acts reasonably deemed hazardous by company, and such performance is
nevertheless ordered or directed by the city after notice of company's
determination.
   B.   Defense Of City: In the event a suit is brought against the city under
circumstances where this agreement to indemnify applies, company at its sole
cost and expense shall defend the city in such suit if written notice thereof
is promptly given to company within a period wherein company is not prejudiced
by lack of such notice. If company is required to indemnify and defend, it will
thereafter have control of such litigation, but company may not settle such
litigation without the consent of the city, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld. This subsection is not, as to third parties, a waiver of
any defense or immunity otherwise available to the city, and company, in
defending any action on behalf of the city, shall be entitled to assert in any
action every defense or immunity that the city could assert in its own behalf.
(Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-9: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
The city shall give company at least two (2) weeks prior written notice of a
proposed vacation of a public way. Except where required for a city improvement
project, the vacation of any public way, after the installation of gas
facilities, shall not operate to deprive company of its rights to operate and
maintain such gas facilities, until the reasonable cost of relocating the same
and the loss and expense resulting from such relocation are first paid to
company. In no case, however, shall city be liable to company for failure to
specifically preserve a right of way under Minnesota statutes section 160.29.
(Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-10: CHANGE IN FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
Any change in the form of government of the city will not affect the validity
of this chapter. Any governmental unit succeeding the city shall, without the
consent of company, succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the city
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-11: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Fee: In lieu of any permit or other fees being imposed on company,
company shall pay an annual franchise fee, of five percent (5%) of company's
gross revenues. The franchise fee will not become effective until the beginning
of a company billing month at least ninety (90) days after this chapter has
been published and a separate franchise agreement has been fully executed,
whichever occurs later. Subsection 1-13-4E of this chapter will constitute the
sole remedy for solving disputes between company and the city in regard to the
interpretation of, or enforcement of, the franchise fee. No action by the city
to implement a revised franchise fee will commence until the franchise
agreement and this chapter are in effect. In the event a future revision of the
fee imposes fees based on a class of user and imposes a lesser franchise fee on
the residential class of customers, such fee will not be effective against
company unless the fee imposed on each other customer classification is reduced
proportionately in the same or greater amount per class as the reduction
represented by the lesser fee on the residential class.
   B.   Collection Of The Fee: The franchise fee will be payable quarterly and
will be based on the amount collected by company during the complete billing
month during the period for which payment is to be made by imposing a surcharge
equal to the designated franchise fee in all customer billings for gas service.
The payment will be due the last business day of the month following the period
for which the payment is made. The franchise fee may be changed by ordinance
from time to time; however, each change must meet the same notice requirements
and not occur more often than annually and no change will require a collection
from any customer for gas service in excess of the amounts specifically
permitted by this section. The time and manner of collecting the franchise fee
is subject to the approval of the commission. No franchise fee will be payable
by company if company is legally unable to first collect an amount equal to the
franchise fee from its customers for gas service. Company may pay the city the
fee based upon the surcharge billed subject to subsequent reductions to account
for uncollectibles, refunds and correction of erroneous billings. Company
agrees to make its records available for inspection by the city at reasonable
times, provided that the city and its designated representative agree in
writing not to disclose any information which would indicate the amount paid by
an identifiable customer or customers or any other information regarding
identified customers. The city and company shall enter into an agreement prior
to company commencing operation of the gas facilities.
   C.   Equivalent Fee Requirement: The franchise fee imposed will not be
effective against company unless the city lawfully imposes and the city
quarterly or more often collects a fee or tax of the same or greater equivalent
amount on the receipts from sales of energy within the city by any other energy
supplier, provided that, as to such a supplier, the city has the authority to
require a franchise fee or impose a tax. The "same or greater equivalent
amount" will be measured, if practicable, by comparing amounts collected as a
franchise fee from each similar customer, or by comparing, as to similar
customers, the percentage of the annual bill represented by the amount
collected for franchise fee purposes. The franchise fee or tax will be
applicable to energy sales for any energy use related to heating, cooling, or
lighting, or to run machinery and appliances, but will not apply to energy
sales for the purpose of providing fuel to vehicles. If company specifically
consents in writing to a franchise collecting or failing to collect a fee from
another energy supplier in contravention of this section, the foregoing
conditions will be waived to the extent of such written consent. (Ord. 2015-03,
2-9-2015)
1-13-12: PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Severability: Every section, provision, or part of this chapter is
declared separate from every other section, provision or part, and if any
section, provision, or part shall be held invalid, it shall not affect any
other section, provision, or part. Where a provision of any other city
ordinance conflicts with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter will prevail. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-13: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:
This chapter may be amended at any time by the city passing a subsequent
ordinance declaring the provisions of the amendment, which amendatory ordinance
shall become effective upon the filing of company's written consent thereto
with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after the date of final passage by
the city of the amendatory ordinance. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
1-13-14: PREVIOUS FRANCHISES SUPERSEDED:
This franchise supersedes any previous gas franchise granted to company or its
predecessor. (Ord. 2015-03, 2-9-2015)
CHAPTER 14
ARTS AND CULTURE COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Board Composition
1-14-3: Duties
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the arts and culture commission shall be to advise the mayor and
city council on the development of arts and cultural activities, projects,
organizations and facilities within the city of Moorhead. (Ord. 2015-15, 6-8-
2015)
1-14-2: BOARD COMPOSITION:
   A.   The arts and culture commission is composed of individuals with
expertise in a variety of performing, literary, or visual arts and/or creating
and strengthening partnerships among the arts, business, culture and academic
community within Moorhead.
   B.   The city council has determined it is in the best interests of the city
to establish an arts and culture commission composed of up to seven (7) members
composed of residents of the city of Moorhead. All commission members shall be
residents of the city and shall be selected by appointment as hereinafter
defined and subject to the confirmation of the city council. The seven (7)
member commission will be composed of the following representation:
      1.   Four (4) members will represent each of Moorhead's four (4) wards.
The two (2) city council members from each ward shall collectively appoint one
member from the ward they represent;
      2.   Two (2) at large members appointed by the mayor and approved by the
council; and
      3.   One mayor or council representative.
   C.   All members will be voting members serving three (3) year terms with a
maximum of a two (2) term limit. In order to establish staggered terms,
founding members representing ward 1, ward 3 and one at large member will be
appointed to a three (3) year term and founding members representing ward 2,
ward 4 and one at large member will be appointed to a two (2) year term. (Ord.
2015-15, 6-8-2015)
1-14-3: DUTIES:
The arts and culture commission shall be advisory to the mayor and city council
and its responsibilities shall include the following:
   A.   Develop, update and recommend to the mayor and city council an arts and
culture vision, goals, public agenda and strategic plan for arts and culture in
Moorhead;
   B.   Provide leadership for completing the comprehensive plan sections
regarding civic arts and culture goals and planning, and providing input for
plan revisions;
   C.   Plan and advocate funding from individual, corporate, foundation and
city funding for arts and cultural activities approved by the city council;
   D.   Facilitate collaboration and joint planning among public and private
agencies involved with related issues such as economic development, tourism and
arts education. (Ord. 2015-15, 6-8-2015)
CHAPTER 15
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR UTILITY SERVICE DISCONNECTION
SECTION:
1-15-1:    Findings
1-15-2: Jurisdiction
1-15-3:    Purpose
1-15-4:    Definitions
1-15-5:    Authority To Disconnect Water And Electrical Service
1-15-6:    Delinquency
1-15-7:    Discontinuance Procedure
1-15-8:    Consent To Discontinuance Of Utility Services
1-15-9:    Remedies For Nonpayment Of Utility Charges
1-15-10: Restrictions If Residential Disconnection Necessary
1-15-11: Restrictions On Disconnection Of General Municipal Services
1-15-12: Safe Harbor Provision
1-15-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The city exercises its police power to protect the public health of its
residents by ensuring the removal and proper processing of wastewater, the
removal of storm water, and the removal of garbage and rubbish from the city.
These three services bear a clear and demonstrable relationship to the goal of
protecting public health. Further, these three services are directly related to
providing residents clean drinking water because without drinking water
service, residents would not have a need for sewer service, and structures and
buildings would not be habitable.
   B.   The city, by and through its Moorhead Public Service Commission,
provides residents with cost-efficient and reliable electrical service and
clean drinking water. The provisions of electrical service and clean drinking
water to the residents, along with the three other interrelated fee-based
services described in Section A, directly impact and support the public health
of the city and its residents.
   C.   The city hereby finds that because the services of electrical, drinking
water, wastewater, storm water, garbage service, and street light service are
interrelated, the non-payment of one of these interrelated services may result
in service being discontinued pursuant to the due process protections and
procedures set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-2: JURISDICTION:
Pursuant to
Chapter 12 .06, subsection (e) of the Moorhead City Charter, the Moorhead
Public Service Commission has jurisdiction over the procedures for the
termination of the Electrical and Water Service. Because the city provides
three services consisting of wastewater, the removal of storm water, the
removal of garbage and rubbish, and street light service which are interrelated
to the provision of Water and Electrical service, the Moorhead Public Service
Commission will not discontinue Electrical or Water service except as provided
in this ordinance. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-3: PURPOSE:
The payment for supply of municipal services is vitally important to the city's
ability to continue to provide such municipal services. Accordingly, the city
desires to set forth its authority for service discontinuance and collection of
past-due amounts in the event of nonpayment. Additionally, the City Council
finds there is a connection between Water and Electrical Service and wastewater
service, storm water service, and garbage service in the promotion and
protection of public health. Accordingly, the City Council finds the operation,
regulation, and discontinuance of Electrical and Water Service in relation to
the nonpayment of wastewater service, storm water service, garbage service, and
street light service as a means to promote and protect public health. (Ord.
2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
ACCOUNT HOLDER: The individual in whose name a Service account is registered.
CLAY COUNTY: Clay County, Minnesota.
ELECTRICAL SERVICE: The providing of Electrical Service via a meter or electric
meter.
GENERAL MANAGER: The General Manager of the Moorhead Public Service Commission,
or his or her designee.
GENERAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES: All services provided by the city, with the
exception of Water and Electrical Service.
HEARING: A proceeding at which evidence and arguments may be presented by an
Account Holder related to discontinuance of Water and/or Electrical Service.
MOORHEAD PUBLIC SERVICE: The entity responsible for billing and discontinuing
Electrical and Water Service within the city.
MOORHEAD PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION: The Moorhead Public Service Commission as
created and continued by
Chapter 12  of the City Charter.
SERVICE: Water or Electrical Service supplied by the Moorhead Public Service
Commission.
WATER SERVICE: Water, wastewater, stormwater and/or garbage. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-
26-2023)
1-15-5: AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT WATER AND ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
   A.   Water Service Discontinuance for Nonpayment. The Moorhead Public
Service Commission has the authority to discontinue Water Service (including
wastewater service, storm water service, garbage service, and street light
service to a premises with a delinquent utility bill as set forth under this
chapter.
   B.   Electrical Service Discontinuance for Nonpayment. The Moorhead Public
Service Commission has the authority to discontinue Electrical Service to a
premises with a delinquent electrical bill as set forth in this chapter.
   C.   No Liability. The Moorhead Public Service Commission reserves the right
to shut off the supply of Water Service to any customer without any preliminary
notice for any reason whatsoever. This includes the specific right, power, and
authority to cut off the supply of water any time without incurring any
liability or cause of action for damages, any regulation to the contrary
notwithstanding, and the Moorhead Public Service Commission shall not be liable
under any circumstances for a deficiency or failure in the supply of water as a
result of shutoffs for delinquent bills. In case of fire, or alarm of fire, or
in making repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off at such
time and kept off as long as necessary. In addition, the Moorhead Public
Service Commission shall have the right to impose reasonable restrictions on
the use of the city water system in emergency situations. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-
2023)
1-15-6: DELINQUENCY:
When an account has a past-due balance for a Service, notice of such balance
will be provided to the Account Holder. Included within such notice will be a
due date for the past-due balance. If an Account Holder does not (i) pay the
past-due balance in full by the due date, (ii) establish a payment arrangement
for the past-due balance with the Moorhead Public Service Commission by the due
date, or (iii) dispute the past-due balance, stating specific reasons therefor,
and request an investigation of the past due balance in writing with the
General Manager by the due date, the account will be deemed delinquent, and the
Service may be discontinued in accordance with the following section. If an
Account Holder requests an investigation, the General Manager will conduct such
an investigation and report his or her written findings to the Account Holder
within thirty (30) calendar days of the Account Holder's written request for an
investigation. An account will not be considered delinquent while an
investigation is pending. If the General Manager determines through his or her
investigation that a past-due balance is owed, the General Manager's written
findings will contain a due date for such past-due balance. If an Account
Holder does not (i) pay the past-due balance in full by the due date, or (ii)
establish a payment arrangement for the past-due balance with Moorhead Public
Service by the due date, the account will be deemed delinquent, and the Service
may be shut off in accordance with the following section. Although an Account
Holder may request an investigation, the Account Holder is not excused from
making payment on Service charges that are not in dispute. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-
2023)
1-15-7: DISCONTINUANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice. Except as provided in this chapter, Moorhead Public Service
will not discontinue Service unless a written cut-off notice has been provided
to the Account Holder with a due date of twenty-two (22) days. The Moorhead
Public Service Commission will send the Account Holder a second, separate
written notice at least ten (10) days prior to the due date with notice that
disconnection may occur at any time after the due date. The Moorhead Public
Service Commission shall keep an accurate record of the date of mailing or
personal service of a discontinuance notice.
   B.   Form of Notice. A notice of discontinuance of Service shall contain, at
a minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the Account Holder;
      2.   The address of the premises to which Services are provided;
      3.   A clear and concise statement of reasons for the proposed
discontinuance of Service;
      4.   The date on or after which Service will be discontinued unless the
Account Holder acts to prevent discontinuance;
      5.   A description of the appropriate action the Account Holder must take
to prevent discontinuance and contact information for whom to contact;
      6.   The right to dispute the discontinuance with the business office,
Finance Manager, and before the General Manager, and that Service will not be
discontinued prior to a decision by such officer; and
      7.   A statement describing the steps necessary for an Account Holder to
have Service restored following discontinuance.
   C.   Hearing.
      1.   An Account Holder has the opportunity to request a Hearing before
the General Manager following the receipt of the discontinuance notice and
prior to discontinuance. Discontinuance of Service may not occur prior to a
requested Hearing. Such a request must be in writing and must be postmarked or
hand delivered to the Moorhead Public Service Commission prior to the date for
discontinuance contained in the discontinuance notice. An Account Holder may
request a Hearing before the General Manager to address technical
administrative issues and for any other reason deemed appropriate by the
General Manager and Moorhead Public Service.
      2.   The General Manager shall be empowered to hear argument and review
evidence from the Account Holder and to render a decision.
      3.   The General Manager must schedule a Hearing within thirty (30)
calendar days of the receipt of a written request for a Hearing and provide
written notice of the date, time, and place of Hearing to the Account Holder at
least seven (7) calendar days prior to the scheduled Hearing.
      4.   At the Hearing, the Account Holder will have the opportunity to
present objections to discontinuance and evidence supporting the same. The
Moorhead Public Service Commission also has the opportunity to present support
for discontinuance during the Hearing.
      5.   Within thirty (30) calendar days of the Hearing, the General Manager
will render his or her decision on discontinuance in writing and provide a copy
of such to the Account Holder. If the General Manager finds in favor of
discontinuance, the General Manager will include a timeline for discontinuance
in the decision.
      6.   Although an Account Holder may request a Hearing, the Account Holder
is not excused from making payment on Service charges that are not in dispute.
   D.   Limitation on Discontinuance. The Moorhead Public Service Commission
must abide by all applicable federal and state laws in discontinuing Service.
   E.   Discontinuance of Service to Accounts Affecting Tenants.
      1.   Residential Rental Rule. In situations where the Moorhead Public
Service Commission has reason to believe (i) a landlord-tenant relationship
exists, (ii) the landlord is the Account Holder of the Service, and (iii) the
landlord as the Account Holder would otherwise be subject to discontinuance of
Service, then, prior to discontinuance, this section shall apply.
      2.   Notice. Where the Moorhead Public Service Commission has reason to
believe that the circumstances set forth in the immediately preceding
subsection are met and the Moorhead Public Service Commission proposes to
discontinue Service at such premises for Service nonpayment, the Moorhead
Public Service Commission will use the following procedures:
         a.   The Moorhead Public Service Commission will provide written
notice to the landlord by first class mail.
         b.   The Moorhead Public Service Commission will post in a conspicuous
place on or near the front or rear entrances of the premises where the Service
is rendered a notice of intent to discontinue Service and a copy of the notice
provided to the landlord pursuant to the prior subsection.
         c.   Said notices shall be posted not less than seven (7) calendar
days prior to the date upon which the Moorhead Public Service Commission
proposes to terminate Service.
      3.   Tenant's Rights and Continuance of Service. The posted notice
required under the prior subsection shall also contain the following
information:
         a.   The date the Service will be discontinued;
         b.   The telephone number to call at the Moorhead Public Service
Commission to obtain further information;
         c.   The right to dispute the discontinuance and request a Hearing
before the General Manager in accordance with this chapter;
         d.   The right of tenants to pay to have the Service continued;
         e.   A brief description of the rights of tenants under Minn. Stat. §
504B.215, as may be amended from time to time; and
         f.   A statement that tenants are encouraged to consider seeking
assistance from legal aid, a private attorney, or a housing organization in
exercising the rights of tenants under Minnesota law to maintain their Service.
      4.   Account Information. The General Manager will make available to any
requesting tenant, the account of the premises that has been posted pursuant to
this section. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-8: CONSENT TO DISCONTINUANCE OF UTILITY SERVICES:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, and if no landlord/tenant
relationship exists, an Account Holder may forego procedures for discontinuance
of Services and provide consent to Moorhead Public Service for shutoff of
Services for the Account Holder's property during or after a move out. (Ord.
2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-9: REMEDIES FOR NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY CHARGES:
   A.   Collection Remedies for Water, Sewer, and Garbage Services.
      1.    Certification for Collection with Taxes. After disconnection for
non-payment, the Moorhead Public Service Commission may provide the city with
information related to unpaid charges for certification to the County Auditor
to be collected in accordance with Minn. Stat. § 444.075, Subd. 3e. Unpaid
charges shall not be certified to the County Auditor until notice and an
opportunity for a Hearing have been provided to the Account Holder. The notice
shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made
before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will
be certified to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
The notice shall also state that the Account Holder may, before such
certification date, attend or schedule a Hearing on the matter to object to
certification of unpaid charges. Unpaid charges may also be recovered in a
civil action against the Account Holder.
      2.   Revenue Recapture. The Minnesota Department of Revenue has the
authority to recapture individual tax refunds or other payments and apply them
to debts owed to state, local, and county agencies. The city and Moorhead
Public Service Commission may utilize the revenue recapture program to apply
individual tax refunds or other payments to debts for nonpayment of Services.
      3.   Option of Payment. The Account Holder shall have the option of
paying the balance due on the account until the date the notice of the
certification hearing is mailed. After the date the notice of certification
hearing is mailed, payments will still be accepted but may include unpaid
penalties.
      4.   Hearing. A Hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council.
Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to
object to certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the Hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this ordinance, the city may certify the unpaid charges to
the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
      5.   Options after Hearing. For each certification sustained, the Account
Holder shall have the following options after the Hearing.
         a.   To pay the delinquent amount after the Hearing date, but before
certification, with no interest.
         b.   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Clay County on
their property tax statement with a collection term of one (1) year.
   B.   Collection Remedies for Electrical Services. The Moorhead Public
Service Commission shall offer a payment agreement for the payment of arrears.
Payment agreements must consider an Account Holder's financial circumstances
using MN Cold Weather requirements regarding household income and State median
income as a guide, and any extenuating circumstances. Unpaid charges may be
recovered in a civil action against the Account Holder.
   C.   Implementation. The Moorhead Public Service Commission is tasked with
the primary responsibility for the implementation of this chapter for
discontinuance of services and may adopt such additional policies and
procedures that are not in contravention with this chapter to accomplish such
implementation. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-10: RESTRICTIONS IF RESIDENTIAL DISCONNECTION NECESSARY:
If a residential customer must be involuntarily disconnected, the disconnection
must not occur:
   A.   On a Friday, unless the customer declines to enter into a payment
agreement offered that day in person or via personal contact by telephone by
the Public Service Commission;
   B.   On a weekend, holiday, or the day before a holiday;
   C.   When Moorhead Public Service Commission offices are closed; or
   D.   After the close of business on a day when disconnection is permitted,
unless a field representative of the Moorhead Public Service Commission who is
authorized to enter into a payment agreement, accept payment, and continue
Service, offers a payment agreement to the customer.
Further, the disconnection must not occur until at least ten (10) days after
the notice required in Section
1-15-7 (A) has been mailed to the customer or ten (10) days after the notice
has been personally delivered to the customer. If, prior to disconnection, a
customer appeals a notice of involuntary disconnection, as provided by Section
1-15-7 (C) the Moorhead Public Service Commission must not disconnect until the
appeal is resolved. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-11: RESTRICTIONS ON DISCONNECTION OF GENERAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES:
   A.   Restrictions. The Moorhead Public Service Commission does not have the
authority to discontinue Water or Electrical Service to a premise for
nonpayment or for delinquent bills relating to General Municipal Services,
including forestry and vector control services, except as set forth under this
chapter.
   B.   Collection Remedies. The Moorhead Public Service Commission shall offer
a payment agreement for the payment of charges relating to General Municipal
Services that are in arrears. Payment agreements must consider an Account
Holder's financial circumstances using MN Cold Weather requirements regarding
household income and State median income as a guide, and any extenuating
circumstances. Unpaid charges may be recovered in a civil action against the
Account Holder.
   C.   Unpaid Charges for General Municipal Services May be Levied as Special
Assessments. The Moorhead Public Service Commission will provide the city with
information necessary for the collection of unpaid special charges, including
the amount unpaid, as a special assessment against the property benefited for
all or any part of the cost of (i) operation of a street lighting system, (ii)
treatment and removal of insect infested or diseased trees on private property,
(iii) trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound trees from any street,
or (iv) for all or any part of the costs set forth in Minn. Stat. § 429.101,
Subd. 1(a), as amended from time to time. The city shall conduct the special
assessment process in accordance with the procedures set forth in Minnesota
law, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-26-2023)
1-15-12: SAFE HARBOR PROVISION:
The city and Moorhead Public Service Commission reserve the right to deviate
from the terms of this ordinance if the Account Holder can provide assurances
that it will maintain a payment agreement for the payment of Services that are
in arrears, or pay the amount of the delinquent bill in full. (Ord. 2023-07, 6-
26-2023)
CHAPTER 16
REGULATION OF FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE
SECTION:
1-16-1: Regulation Of Non-Exclusive Fiber Optic Franchise
1-16-2: Short Title
1-16-3: Definitions
1-16-4: Adoption Of Franchise
1-16-5: Permission To Use And Occupy
1-16-6: Franchisee’s Obligations
1-16-7: City’s Obligations
1-16-8: Costs To Be Paid By Franchisee
1-16-9: Contractors And Subcontractors
1-16-10: Defense And Indemnity
1-16-11: Limitations Of Liability
1-16-12: Performance Bond
1-16-13: Insurance
1-16-14: Term
1-16-15: Termination
1-16-16: Assignment
1-16-17: Notice
1-16-18: General Provisions
1-16-19: Approval
1-16-20: Non-Discrimination
1-16-21: Home Rule Charter
1-16-22: Reservation Of Rights
1-16-23: Severability
1-16-1: REGULATION OF NON-EXCLUSIVE FIBER OPTIC FRANCHISE:
Ubiquity, a Nebraska limited liability company, its successors and assigns, is
hereby granted a nonexclusive franchise to install, maintain, operate, and
control a fiber optic infrastructure network in the city public row for the
purpose of offering communications services, including broadband internet
access service and voice over internet protocol services, but excluding
multichannel video programming services that would be subject to a video
services franchise, to residents and businesses in the city. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-
9-2024)
1-16-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter will be known and cited as the CITY OF MOORHEAD FIBER OPTIC
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE, hereinafter referred to as this “chapter.” (Ord. 2024-13,
12-9-2024)
1-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may”
is permissive. Words not defined will be given their common and ordinary
meanings.
AGREEMENT: The non-exclusive public franchise agreement by and between the city
and franchisee dated , 2025.
BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICE: Broadband internet access service as defined in 47
C.F.R. § 8.1(b).
CITY: The city of Moorhead, county of Clay, state of Minnesota.
CITY OF MOORHEAD RIGHT-OF-WAY DETAILS AND STANDARDS: As defined in the
agreement, as amended from time to time. CUSTOMERS: Residents and businesses in
the city.
FIBER OPTICS: A technology that transmits data, images, and voice over long
distances by using light pulses to travel through glass or plastic fibers.
Fiber optic cables have several advantages over copper cables, including higher
bandwidth and transmit speeds. Fiber optic networks are also more stable and
less likely to overload, making them faster for downloading and streaming.
FRANCHISE: Permission granted by the city to franchisee to use and occupy the
city public row for the limited purpose of performing the work.
FRANCHISEE: Ubiquity, a Nebraska limited liability company, its successors and
assigns.
NETWORK: A fiber optic infrastructure network of equipment and facilities.
NETWORK FACILITIES: Aerial or underground fiber optic cables, lines, wires, or
strands; underground conduits, vaults, access manholes and handholes;
electronic equipment; power generators; batteries; pedestals; boxes; cabinets;
vaults; and other similar equipment and/or facilities.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
trust, joint stock company, business trust, unincorporated association, joint
venture, governmental authority, or other entity of any nature whatsoever.
PUBLIC ROW: Land owned by the city for park, open space, or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public and the use of which the city has
jurisdiction over, as more fully set forth in the agreement.
SERVICES: Communications services, including broadband internet services and
voice over internet protocol services, but excluding multichannel video
programming services that would be subject to a video services franchise.
WORK: The franchisee constructing, installing, repairing, maintaining,
operating, and if necessary removing the network and the related network
facilities in the city public row. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-4: ADOPTION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: A separate franchise agreement may
become effective from and after passage of this chapter, its acceptance by
franchisee, and its publication as required by law. The city, by council
resolution, may revoke the agreement if franchisee does not file a written
acceptance with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after publication.
   B.   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this chapter will be
paid by the city and the city will be reimbursed by franchisee.
   C.   Dispute Resolution: If either party asserts that the other party is in
default in the performance of any obligation of a franchise agreement or in
violation of the chapter, the complaining party shall notify the other party of
the default and the desired remedy. The notification must be written.
Representatives of the parties must promptly meet and attempt in good faith to
negotiate a resolution of the dispute. If the dispute is not resolved within
thirty (30) days of the written notice, the parties may jointly select a
mediator to facilitate further discussion. The parties will equally share the
fees and expenses of this mediator. If a mediator is not used or if the parties
are unable to resolve the dispute within thirty (30) days after first meeting
with the selected mediator, either party may commence an action in district
court to interpret and enforce this franchise or for such other relief as may
be permitted by law or equity for breach of contract, or either party may take
any other action permitted by law. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-5: PERMISSION TO USE AND OCCUPY:
   A.   Permission to Use and Occupy City Public ROW: The city grants
franchisee permission to use and occupy the city public row as set forth in the
agreement and on file with the city and as expanded from time to time by this
city to (the “Franchise”) for the limited purpose of constructing, installing,
repairing, maintaining, operating, and if necessary removing the network and
the related network facilities (the “work”). The franchise does not authorize
franchisee to use any property other than the city public row. Franchisee’s use
of any city owned property, including any and all above ground infrastructure,
inter alia, consisting of poles and conduits, will be governed under a separate
agreement regarding that use and the city retains the exclusive right to deny
the use of the city’s above ground infrastructure for any reason. In accordance
with the city’s standards for work within city row, technical details governing
franchisee’s use and occupancy of the city public row to perform the work are
set forth in the agreement. These details and standards are subject to periodic
change.
   B.   Subject to Federal, State, and Local Law: The franchise is subject to
city’s valid authority under federal, state, and local laws as they exist now
or may be amended from time-to- time, and subject to the conditions set forth
in this chapter. In the event of a material conflict between the terms of local
law and the applicable provisions of the agreement, the applicable provisions
of the agreement will prevail.
   C.   Subject to City’s Right to Use City Public ROW: The franchise is
subject and subordinate to city’s prior and continuing right to use the city
public row, including constructing, installing, operating, maintaining,
repairing, or removing streets, roads, causeways, bridges, sewers, water pipes,
storm drains, gas pipes, utility poles, overhead and underground electric lines
and related facilities, and any and all other public utility and municipal
uses.
   D.   Subject to Pre-Existing Property Interests: City’s grant of the
franchise is non- exclusive and subject to all valid pre-existing easements,
restrictions, conditions, covenants, encumbrances, superior claims of title or
other property interests that may affect the city public row, in addition to
those uses permitted by the revised ordinances of the city. Franchisee will
obtain at its own cost and expense any required permission or rights as may be
necessary to accommodate such pre-existing property interests, so long as such
pre-existing interests do not contravene state or federal law.
   E.   No Grant of Property Interest: The franchise does not grant or convey
any property interest.
   F.   Non-Exclusive: The franchise is not exclusive. City expressly reserves
the right to grant permits, franchises, privileges or other rights to any other
individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint
stock company, business trust, unincorporated association, joint venture,
governmental authority or other entity of any nature whatsoever (“person”), as
well as the right in its own name as a city, to use public row for similar or
different purposes allowed franchisee under this chapter. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-
2024)
1-16-6: FRANCHISEE’S OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Individual Permits Required: Subject to the requirements as described
in the agreement, as amended from time to time, franchisee will obtain city’s
approval of required individual encroachment, construction, excavation, and
other necessary permits before placing its network facilities in the city
public row or other property of city as authorized. Franchisee will pay for all
lawful processing, field marking, engineering, and inspection fees associated
with the issuance of individual permits by city. The “City of Moorhead Right-
of-Way Details and Standards” attached to the agreement is routinely updated
and posted on the city’s website; therefore, the latest version posted on the
city’s website shall always govern.
   B.   Franchisee’s Sole Cost and Expense: Franchisee will perform the work at
its sole cost and expense, or with any local, state, or federal grants, and
other funding that may become available to franchisee.
   C.   Compliance with Laws: Franchisee will comply with all applicable laws
and regulations when performing the work. franchisee will place its network
facilities in conformance with the required permits, plans, and drawings
approved by city.
   D.   Reasonable Care: Franchisee will exercise reasonable care when
performing the work and will use commonly accepted practices and equipment to
minimize the risks of personal injury, property damage, soil erosion, and
pollution of surface or groundwater.
   E.   No Nuisance: Franchisee will maintain its network facilities in good
and safe condition.
   F.   Repair: Franchisee will promptly repair any damage to the city public
row, city property, or private property if such damage is directly caused by
franchisee’s work and no other person is responsible for the damage (e.g.,
where a person other than franchisee fails to accurately or timely locate its
underground facilities as required by applicable law). Franchisee will repair
the damaged property to a condition equal to or better than that which existed
prior to the damage. franchisee’s obligation under this will be limited by, and
consistent with, any applicable seasonal or other restrictions on construction
or restoration work.
   G.   As-Built Drawings, Maps, and GIS Data: Franchisee will maintain
accurate as-built drawings, maps, and Geographic Information System (GIS) data
of its network facilities located in the city public row. Franchisee will
provide these to the city upon reasonable request and on a mutually agreed
timetable (e.g., piecemeal following the closure of each permit, or all at once
after all the work is complete), subject to applicable confidentiality
protections.
   H.   Network Design: Nothing in this chapter requires franchisee to build to
all areas of city, and franchisee retains the discretion to determine the
scope, location, and timing of the design and construction of the network
facilities. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-7: CITY’S OBLIGATIONS:
Notwithstanding city’s obligation as outlined in this section, franchisee’s use
of city public row or city property shall be conducted in a manner consistent
with lawful and applicable public easement rights.
   A.   Emergency Removal or Relocation by City: In the event of a public
emergency that creates an imminent threat to the health, safety, or property of
city or its residents, city and/or other public utilities may remove or
relocate the applicable portions of the network facilities without prior notice
to franchisee. City and any affected public utility will, however, make best
efforts to provide prior notice to franchisee before making an emergency
removal or relocation. In any event, city and any other public utility
benefiting from this provision will promptly provide franchisee a written
description of any emergency removals or relocations of franchisee’s network
facilities. Franchisee will reimburse city and any affected public utility for
its actual, reasonable, and documented costs or expenses incurred for any such
emergency work, the direct cause of which was franchisee’s construction,
installation, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of its network
facilities. Franchisee’s obligation to reimburse city and any affected public
utility under this section will be separate from franchisee’s obligation to
reimburse city for any other reasonable expense city may incur.
   B.   Relocation to Accommodate Governmental Purposes: Franchise shall be
subject to and shall comply with Title 8 Chapter 4, Right of Way Management, of
the Moorhead Municipal Code whenever working within city public row. If
franchisee’s then-existing network facilities would interfere with planned use
of the city public row or city property of the city of Moorhead, the state of
Minnesota, or any other political subdivision (as defined by the IRS) for any
governmental purpose as reasonably determined by the city, franchisee will,
upon written notice from any of the foregoing entities, relocate its network
facilities at franchisee’s own expense to such other location or locations in
the city public row as may be mutually agreed by the parties, taking into
account the needs of the governmental purpose. Franchisee will relocate its
network facilities within a commercially reasonable period of time agreed to by
the parties, taking into account the urgency of the need for relocation, the
difficulty of the relocation, and other relevant facts and circumstances.
   C.   Relocation to Accommodate Non-Governmental Purposes: If franchisee’s
then- existing network facilities would interfere with a third-party’s use of
the city public row, franchisee will not be required to relocate its network
facilities unless the city reasonably determines in writing to franchisee, that
a failure to relocate network facilities will result in a significant and
material detriment or financial loss to the citizens of the city of Moorhead.
In that event, franchisee may be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable costs
and expenses incurred in relation to the relocation of its network facilities
as between the franchisee and the third party. If there is a dispute between
franchisee and the affected third party, city will attempt to mediate the
dispute between the parties so as to avoid or mitigate unreasonable delays.
   D.   Post-Removal Restoration of City Public ROW: When removal or relocation
is required under this chapter, franchisee will, after the removal or
relocation of the network facilities, at its own cost, repair and return the
city public row in which the facilities were located to the same or similar
conditions existing prior to the franchisee’s construction, and shall comply
with Title 8 Chapter 4, Right of Way Management, of the Moorhead Municipal
Code.(Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-8: COSTS TO BE PAID BY FRANCHISEE:
   A.   Franchisee shall pay the city the following costs: inspection,
relocation and facility location costs, all barricading, traffic detour or
warning signing or flagging not actually performed by franchisee, and for all
other actual and reasonable direct expenses actually incurred by city in
regulating franchisee’s use and occupancy of city public row granted in this
chapter. All direct costs assessed by the city to franchisee will be consistent
with applicable law.
   B.   In the event of a change in applicable law that permits city to impose
and collect a franchise fee from franchisee pursuant to this chapter, city
shall provide written notice to franchisee of its intent to exercise its
franchise fee rights. The parties shall cooperate and negotiate in good faith
to amend this chapter and the agreement. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-9: CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS:
   A.   Use of Contractors and Subcontractors: Franchisee may retain
contractors and subcontractors to perform the work on franchisee’s behalf.
   B.   Contractors to be Franchised: Franchisee’s contractors and
subcontractors used for the work will be properly franchised under applicable
law.
   C.   Authorized Individuals: Franchisee’s contractors and subcontractors may
submit individual permit applications to city on franchisee’s behalf, so long
as the permit applications are signed by individuals that franchisee has
authorized to act on its behalf via a letter of authorization provided to city
in the form attached to the agreement (“Authorized Individuals”). City will
accept permit applications under this chapter submitted and signed by
authorized individuals, and will treat those applications as if they had been
submitted by franchisee under this chapter. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-10: DEFENSE AND INDEMNITY:
   A.   Obligations: Commencing on the effective date of this chapter,
Franchisee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city, and its
officers, employees, agents, consultants, subcontractors, and representatives,
from and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, expenses,
demands, suits, fines, judgments, costs, expenses, and fees (including all fees
and charges of attorneys, engineers, architects, and other professionals and
all court, arbitration, mediation, or other resolution costs) arising out of or
relating to any and all claims by third parties for property damage or bodily
injury, including death, to the proportionate extent caused by any negligent
act or omission of franchisee, any subcontractor, any supplier, or any
individual or entity directly or indirectly employed by any of them to perform
any of the work or anyone for whose acts any of them may be liable, and
including all costs, expenses, and fees incurred by the city in establishing
and litigating the existence, scope, or any other matters relating to
franchisee’s obligations to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless. Franchisee’s
obligations to defend will be free of any conflicts of interest, even if
retention of separate legal counsel is necessary. Franchisee’s duties to
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless include anything in excess of any minimum
insurance requirements described in the agreement, and anything in excess of
any of franchisee’s insurance policy limits. Franchisee’s obligations to
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless will continue for a period of not less
than six (6) years following the date of completion of the work or any
termination or expiration of this chapter or termination of the agreement,
whichever date occurs last.
      The indemnified party shall provide notice to franchisee’s after
obtaining knowledge of any claim that it may have pursuant to this Section
1-16-10. In the event the indemnified party pursues a claim pursuant to this
Section
1-16-10, the indemnified party will also provide relevant information and
assistance to franchisee.
   B.   Exclusions: Section
1-16-10 (Defense and Indemnity) will not apply to the extent the underlying
allegation (a) arises from or is related to the negligence or willful
misconduct of an indemnified party or (b) is made by city’s employee and
covered under applicable workers’ compensation laws. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-11: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
Neither party will be liable for any indirect, special, incidental,
consequential, exemplary or punitive damages in connection with the agreement.
The parties acknowledge that this limitation will be subject to and may be
limited by applicable law. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-12: PERFORMANCE BOND:
Franchisee will provide city with a performance bond in the amount as set forth
in the terms and conditions of the permit for work within the public row. (Ord.
2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-13: INSURANCE:
Franchisee will carry and maintain liability insurance in the amounts and in
accordance with the terms set forth in the permit for work within the public
row. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-14: TERM:
The agreement is effective on the date the last party to sign executes the
agreement (“effective date”). The agreement will expire automatically on the
fifth (5th) anniversary of the effective date (“original term”) unless earlier
terminated in accordance with the provisions herein. Thereafter, the agreement
will automatically renew for successive five (5) year terms (each a “renewal
term”) unless a party provides at least ninety (90) days’ prior written notice
to the other party of its intent not to renew. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-15: TERMINATION:
   A.   Termination by City: City may terminate the agreement if franchisee is
in material breach of the agreement, provided that city must first provide
franchisee written notice of the breach and one hundred eighty (180) days to
cure, unless the cure cannot reasonably be accomplished in that time period, in
which case franchisee must commence its efforts to cure within that time period
and the cure period will continue as long as such diligent efforts continue. no
termination under this paragraph will be effective until the relevant cure
period has expired.
   B.   Termination by Franchisee: Franchisee may terminate the agreement for
convenience upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice to city. (Ord.
2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-16: ASSIGNMENT:
Except as set forth below, neither party may assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under the agreement, in whole or part, to a third party, without
the written consent of the other party. Any agreed upon assignee will take the
place of the assigning party, and the assigning party will be released from all
of its rights and obligations upon such assignment.
   A.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, franchisee may at any time, on written
notice to city, assign the agreement or any or all of its rights and
obligations under the agreement:
      1.   To any affiliate (as defined below) of franchisee;
      2.   To any successor in interest of franchisee’s business operations in
city in connection with any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction if
franchisee determines after a reasonable investigation that the successor in
interest has the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of the
agreement; or
      3.   To any purchaser of all or substantially all of franchisee’s network
facilities in city if franchisee determines after a reasonable investigation
that the purchaser has the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of
the agreement.
   B.   Following any assignment of the agreement to an affiliate, franchisee
will not remain responsible for such affiliate’s performance under the terms of
the agreement. For purposes of this section, (a) “Affiliate” means any person
that now or in the future, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled with
or by, or is under common control with franchisee; and (b) “control” means,
with respect to: (i) a U.S. corporation, the ownership, directly or indirectly,
of fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power to elect directors thereof,
or (ii) a non-U.S. corporation, if the voting power to elect directors thereof
is less than fifty percent (50%), the maximum amount allowed by applicable law;
and (iii) any other person, fifty percent (50%) or more ownership interest in
said person, or the power to direct the management of such person. (Ord. 2024-
13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-17: NOTICE:
All notices related to this chapter will be in writing and sent, if to
franchisee to the email addresses set forth below, and if to city, to the city
of Moorhead, Attn: City Manager, P.O. Box 779, Moorhead, MN 56561-0779, with a
copy to the City Attorney at Ohnstad Twichell, P.C., P.O. Box 458, West Fargo,
ND 58078-0458. Notices are effective (a) when delivered in person, (b) upon
confirmation of a receipt when transmitted by electronic mail, (c) on the next
business day if transmitted by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid
(with confirmation of delivery), (d) on the next business day if transmitted by
overnight courier (with confirmation of delivery), or (e) three (3) days after
the date of mailing, whichever is earlier. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-18:GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The agreement is governed by the laws of the state of Minnesota and any dispute
arising hereunder shall be venued in Clay County, Minnesota. Neither party will
be liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by
circumstances beyond its reasonable control. The agreement, including any
exhibits thereto, sets out all terms agreed between the parties and supersedes
all previous or contemporaneous agreements between the parties relating to its
subject matter. The agreement, including any exhibits, constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties related to this subject matter, and any change to
its terms, including, but not limited to, amendments or modifications, must be
in writing and signed by the parties. The parties may execute the agreement in
counterparts, including facsimile, PDF, and other electronic copies, which
taken together will constitute one instrument. Each party to the agreement
agrees that franchisee may use electronic signatures. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-19: APPROVAL:
The agreement shall not be effective until the execution of the agreement by
the city has been approved by resolution of its city council. (Ord. 2024-13,
12-9-2024)
1-16-20: NON-DISCRIMINATION:
Franchisee will comply (and similarly require compliance by contractors from
time to time used or hired to plan, construct or maintain network facilities
pursuant to the agreement) with applicable federal, state, and local laws with
respect to prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of race, color sex,
age, disability, political or religious opinions, affiliations or national
origin. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-21: HOME RULE CHARTER:
Except as permitted under Minnesota law, no elected official or officer or
employee of the city shall have a financial interest, direct or indirect, in
any city contract. Any violation of this section, with the knowledge of the
person or corporation entering into said contract with the city as of the
effective date may render said contract voidable by the city council. City
recognizes and acknowledges that ownership of less than controlling shares of
stock of franchisee’s direct parent by an elected officer/employee of the city
does not render the agreement void or voidable. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-22: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS:
The parties expressly reserve any rights either of them may have under state or
federal law concerning the subject matter of the agreement and further agree
that by execution and performance of the agreement, neither party shall be
deemed to have waived any such rights. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
1-16-23: SEVERABILITY:
If any part of the agreement is deemed invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the
remainder of the agreement will remain in effect. (Ord. 2024-13, 12-9-2024)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LICENSES AND PERMITS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Licenses or Permits Required
2-1-2: Application for License or Permit
2-1-3: Fees, Bonds and Insurance
2-1-4: Approval or Denial of Licenses
2-1-5: Content of Certificates
2-1-6: License and Permit Terms
2-1-7: Exhibition of Certificate
2-1-8: Transfer and Renewal Privileges
2-1-9: Inspections
2-1-10: Revocation of License or Permit
2-1-1: LICENSES OR PERMITS REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise specifically provided, no person shall engage in any trade,
profession, business or privilege in the City for which a license or permit is
required by any provision of this Code without first obtaining such license
from the City in the manner provided in this Chapter. (1967 Code §51.01)
2-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Unless otherwise provided, application for a license or permit shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk, and applicants shall state the location of the
proposed activity and such other facts as may be required for or be applicable
to the granting of such license or permit. (1967 Code §51.02)
2-1-3: FEES, BONDS AND INSURANCE:
   A.   Payment of Fee: The fees required for any license or permit shall be
paid at the office of the City Clerk before the granting of the license or
permit. The City Clerk or authorized City staff shall issue a receipt for the
fee and issue the license or permit to the applicant. Unless otherwise
provided, no fee shall be prorated for a portion of a year, and no fee paid
shall be refunded unless the license or permit is denied. (1967 Code §51.03)
   B.   Bond and Insurance: All required bonds shall be executed by a surety
company, be reviewed as to form and substance by City staff, and be subject to
the approval of the Mayor and Council as required by law. Where policies of
insurance are required, such policies shall be approved as to substance and
form by City staff. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by bond or insurance
shall be filed with the City Clerk before the license or permit is issued.
(1967 Code §51.04)
2-1-4: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSES:
   A.   Where the approval of any City officer or State officer is required
prior to the issuance of any license or permit, such approval must be presented
to the City Clerk before any license or permit is issued.
   B.   No license or permit shall be approved by any City officer or issued by
the City Clerk if it appears that the conduct of the activity for which a
license or permit is sought will be contrary to the health, safety or welfare
of the public or any regulation, law or ordinance applicable to such activity.
(1967 Code 851.05)
2-1-5: CONTENT OF CERTIFICATES:
License or permit certificates shall show the date of issue, the activity
licensed and the term of the license or permit, and shall be signed in the name
of the City by the Mayor and City Clerk, the Mayor's signature may be
handwritten or imprinted by authorized stamp; and be impressed with the City
seal. The Clerk shall keep a record of all licenses and permits issued. (1967
Code §51.06)
2-1-6: LICENSE AND PERMIT TERMS:
   A.   Licenses: Unless otherwise provided, the term of the license year shall
begin and end with the calendar year. Where the issuance of licenses of a
period of less than one year is permitted, the effective date of such license
shall commence with the date of issuance and expire on December 31 unless
otherwise provided.
   B.   Permits: Permits shall be issued for the term set forth in the permit.
(1967 Code §51.07)
2-1-7: EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE:
All licensees or permittees shall carry their license or permit certificate
upon their person at all times when engaged in the activity for which the
license or permit was granted; except that where such activity is conducted at
a fixed place or establishment, the license or permit certificate shall be
exhibited at all times in some conspicuous place in their place of business.
The licensee or permittee shall exhibit the license certificate upon demand of
any police officer or person representing the issuing authority, or any person
invited by the licensee or permittee to do business with them. (1967 Code
§51.08)
2-1-8: TRANSFER AND RENEWAL PRIVILEGES:
   A.   Transfer: Unless otherwise provided, no license or permit shall be
transferable without the authorization of the Council. (1967 Code §51.09)
   B.   Renewal: License or permit renewals shall be issued in the same manner
and be subject to the same conditions as original licenses or permits. (1967
Code §51.10)
2-1-9: INSPECTIONS:
City officials, upon presentment of proper credentials, may enter at reasonable
times upon the premises where any licensed or permitted activity is being
conducted for the purpose of inspection. (1967 Code §51.13)
2-1-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Any license or permit issued by the city may be suspended or revoked by
the council for any of the following causes:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application or made in carrying on the licensed or permitted activity.
      2.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor.
      3.   Conducting such licensed or permitted activity in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or welfare
of the public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of residents of the
city, upon recommendation of the appropriate city official.
      4.   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance.
      5.   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit
granted.
      6.   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license or permit has been granted, or any
regulation or law of the state so applicable.
      7.   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license or permit. (1967 Code §51.11)
   B.   Any person aggrieved by the action of the council or any city official
in denying, suspending or revoking a license or permit shall have the right to
a hearing before the council on any such action, provided a written request
therefor is filed with the city clerk within ten (10) days after receipt of the
notice of such denial, suspension or revocation. The council may grant such
license or permit or confirm any suspension or revocation or reinstate any such
license or permit. The action taken by the council after a hearing shall be
final. (1967 Code §51.12)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENTS
ARTICLE A. POOL, BILLIARDS AND OTHER AMUSEMENT DEVICES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2020-12, 12-14-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. For offenses regarding gambling, see subsection 4-4-13B of this code.
ARTICLE B. GAMBLING
SECTION:
2-2B-1: Purpose
2-2B-2: Gambling Authorized
2-2B-3: Hours Gambling Restricted
2-2B-4: Number Of Licenses Issued
2-2B-5: Restricted Locations
2-2B-6: Gambling Site Manager
2-2B-7: Application For License
2-2B-8: Required Expenditures
2-2B-9: Organizations Eligible For Lawful Gambling License
2-2B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to further regulate and control the conduct of
gambling as authorized by state law within the city and to provide certain
rules and regulations in addition to those regulations promulgated by the
charitable gambling control board of the state of Minnesota, as is authorized
by Minnesota statutes, section 349.213, as such statutes may be from time to
time amended, supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 820, 4-15-1985)
2-2B-2: GAMBLING AUTHORIZED:
Authorized gambling, except bingo and raffles, may be conducted only on the
premises of an on-sale intoxicating liquor license holder or the premises of an
on-sale club liquor license holder within the city 1 . (Ord. 820, 4-15-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-3-3 of this title.
2-2B-3: HOURS GAMBLING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Except for bingo and raffles, no gambling shall be conducted within the
city except during the hours authorized by law for on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses and club liquor license holders to be open for business on Monday
through Saturday, inclusive.
   B.   Bingo may be conducted at any time except that on Sundays bingo may
only be conducted between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Raffles may be conducted at any time.
   D.   On Sundays, authorized gambling other than bingo and raffles may be
conducted only on the premises of a convention facility in an area other than
the restaurant or lounge. Gambling authorized under this subsection may be
conducted only between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and only at such time that a convention is actually being
conducted on the premises.
For the purposes of this article only, a "convention facility" shall be defined
as a hotel or motel which is the holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license. (Ord. 820, 4-15-1985)
2-2B-4: NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED:
Only one eligible organization may be licensed for each premises on which
gambling is to be conducted, except that licenses for bingo and raffles shall
be governed by state law as to the number of licenses per premises. No
organization may be licensed for more than six (6) sites in the city. Provided,
that the city council, by resolution, may allow an eligible organization to
have more than six (6) sites. (Ord. 2001-17, 9-17-2001)
2-2B-5: RESTRICTED LOCATIONS:
No gambling shall be conducted in the lobby or common hallways of a licensed
premises. (Ord. 820, 4-15-1985)
2-2B-6: GAMBLING SITE MANAGER:
For the purposes of this article only, the designated site manager shall be
that person who has authority for the management of the gambling operations on
the licensed site and who has access to the books and records of the gambling
operations which take place at the licensed site. The licensed organization
shall file a written designation of its site manager with the city clerk and
shall be responsible for maintaining such designation current. (Ord. 2010-10,
10-11-2010)
2-2B-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any eligible organization seeking to conduct an exempt raffle, as defined by
state law, shall apply for a permit to be issued by the city before such raffle
may be conducted within the city under the following procedures:
   A.   An application on forms to be approved by the city clerk shall be filed
in the office of the city clerk containing such information as required from
time to time by the city clerk. (Ord. 2013-13, 8-12-2013)
2-2B-8: REQUIRED EXPENDITURES:
Every organization conducting lawful gambling in the city shall expend at least
eighty percent (80%) of its net profits derived from the lawful gambling on
lawful purposes conducted within or located within the city of Moorhead or a
city contiguous to the city of Moorhead. (Ord. 99-10, 11-1-1999)
2-2B-9: ORGANIZATIONS ELIGIBLE FOR LAWFUL GAMBLING LICENSE:
An organization shall not be eligible to conduct lawful gambling in the city
unless the organization meets all of the requirements imposed by state law and
unless the organization meets at least one of the following conditions:
   A.   The organization has at least fifty percent (50%) of its members, and
fifteen (15) members, that are residents of the city; or
   B.   The physical site for the organization's headquarters or the registered
business office of the organization is located within the city, and has been
located within the city for at least two (2) years immediately preceding
application for a license; or
   C.   The physical site where the organization regularly holds its meetings
and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and fundraising, is
within the city and has been located within the city for at least two (2) years
immediately preceding application for a license. (Ord. 99-10, 11-1-1999)
ARTICLE C. THEATERS
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-21, 11-25-2013)
ARTICLE D. SHOWS AND CIRCUSES
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-08, 3-28-2022)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
2-3-1: State Law Adopted
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Licenses Required, Classifications
2-3-4: Application For License
2-3-5: License And Bond Fees; License Term
2-3-6: Resident Manager
2-3-7: Granting Of Licenses
2-3-8: Investigation Expense
2-3-9: Responsibility For Conduct Of Business
2-3-10: Inspection Of Premises
2-3-11: Conditions Of License
2-3-12: Restricted Sales
2-3-13: Hours And Days Of Sale
2-3-14: Minors
2-3-15: Open Bottle Law
2-3-16: Deliveries Of Liquor Prohibited
2-3-17: Entertainment Restrictions
2-3-18: Park Restriction
2-3-19: Inactivity Of License
2-3-20: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
2-3-21: Penalty For Violations
2-3-22: Compliance Checks
2-3-23: Special Hours License
2-3-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The provisions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A as such chapter may be from
time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, with reference to the
definition of terms, applications for licenses, granting of license, conditions
of license, restrictions on consumption, provisions on sale, conditions of
bonds of licensees, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor are hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter, except as the same may be made more
restrictive or otherwise referred to herein. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms as used in this chapter shall mean:
BANQUET HALL: An establishment which is under the control of a single
proprietor or manager which has suitable facilities for serving meals on
premises where the meal service consists of no less than one entree, complete
with vegetable, salad, bread or rolls, and beverage, either catered or prepared
on-site; which has facilities for seating not fewer than fifty (50) guests at
one time at tables; which is not open to the general public but which is
available for rental by individuals or groups for meetings, parties, weddings,
or similar occasions; and in which the equipment and premises meet the
provisions of all the Food and Health Codes.
BILLIARD HALL: Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager,
having ten (10) or more billiard or pool tables and the necessary accessories
such as cue sticks and balls, having a minimum square footage dedicated to the
playing of billiards or pool either equal to the product of ten (10) tables
times two hundred (200) square feet per table (2,000 square feet) or equal to
the product of sixty percent (60%) times the total square footage of the
premises of the establishment, whichever product is greater, possessing any
required billiard licenses, and being open to members of the public principally
for the playing of billiards or pool with no live entertainment or dancing
being allowed on the premises.
CLUB: Any corporation duly organized under the laws of the State for civil,
fraternal, social or business purposes or for intellectual improvement, or for
the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans' organization,
which shall have more than fifty (50) members and which shall, for more than a
year have owned, hired or leased a building or space in a building of such
extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and
comfortable accommodation of its members, and whose affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee or other similar body
chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose, none of whose
members, officers, agents or employees are paid directly or indirectly any
compensation by way of profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to the
members of the club or to its guests, beyond the amount of such reasonable
salary or wages as may be fixed and voted each year by the directors or other
governing body.
EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORES: An establishment used exclusively for the sale of
intoxicating liquor except for the incidental sale of ice, tobacco, 3.2 percent
malt liquor, beverages for mixing with intoxicating liquor, and soft drinks
that may be sold, and the establishment may offer recorded or live
entertainment and make available coin operated amusement devices. "Exclusive
liquor store" also includes an on-sale or combination on-sale and off-sale
intoxicating liquor establishment which sells food for on premises consumption
when authorized by the municipality issuing the license.
HOTEL: Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager where, in
consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients, which maintains for the use of its guests not less than one hundred
(100) rooms, which is provided at the main entrance with a suitable lobby, desk
and office for the registration of its guests on the ground floor, which
employs an adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service, and which
maintains under the same management and control as the rest of the
establishment and has, as an integral part thereof, a dining room with
appropriate facilities for seating not less than fifty (50) guests at one time,
where the general public is, in consideration of payment therefor, served with
meals at tables.
INTOXICATING LIQUOR: Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous,
and malt beverages containing more than 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight.
MALT LIQUOR: Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than one half of one percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume.
MOTEL: Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager where, in
consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients, having as one of its features drive-in facilities whereby the
transients who are lodging there may drive up to the unit in which they are
lodged for the night, and which maintains for the use of its guests not less
than one hundred (100) separate and distinct guest units for lodgers and which
employs an adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service and which
maintains under the same management and control as the rest of the
establishment and has as an integral part thereof a dining room with
appropriate facilities for seating not less than fifty (50) guests at one time,
where the general public is, in consideration of payment thereof, served with
meals at tables.
NONPROFIT CORPORATION: Any organization nonprofit in nature, with a charitable,
benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, social services, welfare, education,
cultural, artistic or public interest purpose.
RESTAURANT: Any establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly served at tables to the
general public, and having seating capacity for at least thirty (30) guests.
For the purpose of obtaining a license according to section
2-3-3 of this chapter, a "restaurant" shall also include a banquet hall as
defined in this section. Persons under the age of eighteen (18) may purchase
and consume food on the premises of a restaurant which also holds a liquor
license.
TASTING: An event at which persons pay a fee to participate and are allowed to
consume wine, malt liquor, or spirits by the glass without paying a separate
charge for each glass.
THEATER: A building containing an auditorium in which live dramatic, musical,
dance, or literary performances are regularly presented to holders of tickets
for those performances.
3.2 PERCENT MALT LIQUOR: Malt liquor containing not less than one-half of one
percent alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2 percent alcohol by weight. (Ord.
2018-04, 2-26-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-11, 12-9-2019)
2-3-3: LICENSES REQUIRED, CLASSIFICATIONS:
No person, except wholesalers or manufacturers to the extent authorized under
State license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or keep for sale any
intoxicating or 3.2 percent malt liquor without first having received a license
to do so as provided in this chapter. Licenses shall be of the following
classifications:
   A.   On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor: On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall
be issued only to exclusive liquor stores, restaurants, hotels, motels, bowling
alleys and such other establishments which the Council may from time to time
authorize, except that three (3) on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall be
reserved exclusively for hotels and motels. In any event, not more than twenty
six (26) on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall be issued.
   B.   Off-Sale Intoxicating Liquor: Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
shall be issued solely to exclusive liquor stores and shall permit off-sale of
liquor only. The City shall be permitted to issue one off-sale intoxicating
liquor license for each two thousand (2,000) residents of the community as
determined by a Federal or special census, except that irrespective of
population, the City shall be authorized to issue a maximum of seventeen (17)
off-sale licenses. (Ord. 2017-12, 9-25-2017)
   C.   On-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor: On-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor
licenses may only be issued to drugstores, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling
alleys, golf courses, and establishments used exclusively for the sale of 3.2
percent malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks. The
Council shall determine from time to time the number of on-sale 3.2 percent
malt liquor licenses which shall be issued. (Ord. 2017-18, 11-27-2017)
   D.   Club: Club licenses shall be issued only to duly incorporated clubs
which have been in existence for a period of ten (10) years.
   E.   On-Sale Wine:
      1.   On-sale wine licenses shall be licenses authorizing the sale of wine
not exceeding twenty four percent (24%) alcohol by volume for consumption on
the licensed premises only, and only in conjunction with the sale of food, to
be issued only to restaurants as defined in this chapter.
      2.   The holder of an on-sale wine license issued pursuant to subsection
E1 of this section and who is licensed to sell 3.2 percent malt liquor at on-
sale pursuant to subsection C of this section is authorized to sell
intoxicating malt liquor at on-sale without an additional license.
   F.   Special Provisions; Sports, Conventions, Or Cultural Facilities:
Special event on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued to the holder
of an on-sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the City to dispense
intoxicating liquor at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social
affair conducted on the premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility
owned by the City and located within the City. The licensee must be engaged to
dispense intoxicating liquor at an event held by a person or organization
permitted to use the premises, and may dispense intoxicating liquor only to
persons attending the event. The licensee may not dispense intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event held on
the premises. If the facility is within three hundred feet (300') of the
property line of any school or place of worship, a waiver must be obtained from
the school or place of worship.
   G.   Special Event On-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor: Special event on-sale
3.2 percent malt liquor licenses may be issued to a club or charitable,
religious or nonprofit organization for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor,
subject to such additional terms and conditions as the City shall prescribe in
the resolution approving the license.
   H.   Sunday Liquor:
      1.   A restaurant, club or hotel with a seating capacity for at least
thirty (30) persons and which holds an on-sale intoxicating or 3.2 percent malt
liquor license may sell intoxicating and 3.2 percent malt liquor for
consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food during the
hours allowed by Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A, as amended from time to time.
      2.   A brewer which holds a brewer on-sale intoxicating or 3.2 percent
malt liquor license may sell intoxicating and 3.2 percent malt liquor for
consumption on the premises during the hours allowed by Minnesota Statutes
chapter 340A, as amended from time to time.
      3.   An establishment or a brewer serving intoxicating liquor on Sundays
must obtain a Sunday license. The license will be issued for a period of one
year, and the fee for such on-sale Sunday intoxicating liquor license shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
   I.   Consumption And Display: A consumption and display license as defined
by Minnesota law, shall be issued only to restaurants, as defined in this
chapter, and shall be issued for use only in conjunction with the serving of
food at a planned, booked in advance, event held in a separate room on the
premises of the restaurant; no restaurant holding an on- sale intoxicating
liquor license shall be eligible for a consumption and display license; such
license shall be valid for Sundays, subject to all conditions and regulations
for on- sale Sunday intoxicating liquor licenses set forth in this chapter.
   J.   Hjemkomst Center:
      1.   An on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be issued by the City to
the Historical and Cultural Society of Clay County for the premises known as
the Hjemkomst Center.
      2.   Any license issued under subsection J1 of this section shall
authorize the dispensing of intoxicating liquor only to persons attending
events on the licensed premises and shall authorize consumption on the licensed
premises only. No intoxicating liquor shall be dispensed on Sunday under any
license issued under subsection J1 of this section. Persons on the licensed
premises during events shall be restricted to only those persons allowed on the
premises by Minnesota Statutes 340A.503, as this statute may be amended,
supplemented, or replaced from time to time. The term "events" under this
subsection J shall mean conventions, banquets, conferences, meetings, or social
affairs.
      3.   Dispensing of intoxicating liquor under subsection J1 of this
section shall be restricted to dispensing malt liquor or wine as defined by
Minnesota Statutes 340A.101, as this statute may be amended, supplemented, or
replaced from time to time, except as otherwise provided in subsection J4 of
this section. The Hjemkomst Center may either dispense the malt liquor or wine
itself or contract with a holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor license by
the City to dispense the malt liquor or wine.
      4.   The Hjemkomst Center may dispense intoxicating liquor under
subsection J1 of this section without the malt liquor or wine restrictions
imposed by subsection J3 of this section, provided that the Center's governing
body contracts for intoxicating liquor catering services with the holder of an
on-sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the City to dispense same.
      5.   The fee for any license issued under subsection J1 of this section
shall either be a fee as established by the City's fee schedule in the event
dispensing of intoxicating liquor is restricted to malt liquor or wine, or a
fee as established by the City's fee schedule in the event dispensing of
intoxicating liquor is not restricted to malt liquor or wine by the Center's
governing body contracting with the holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license issued by the City. No fee under this subsection J shall be prorated
for any portion of the year for which the license may be issued nor shall any
fee or portion thereof be waived or refunded once paid.
      6.   All provisions of Minnesota Statutes 340A, as such provisions may be
amended, supplemented, or replaced from time to time and all ordinances of the
City governing alcoholic beverages not inconsistent with this subsection J
apply to any license issued under subsection J1 of this section.
   K.   Off-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor: Off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor
licenses will not be issued in the City except that an off-sale 3.2 percent
malt liquor license may be issued to any establishment which is orderly annexed
by the City under Minnesota Statutes 414.0325, as such section may be from time
to time amended, supplemented or replaced so long as the establishment at the
effective date of annexation holds an existing off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor
license issued by the authority of the County Board of Clay County, Minnesota.
Any license issued to an establishment under this subsection, may be
transferred if the establishment is sold to a buyer qualified to hold the
license under Minnesota Statutes 340A, and this title, as such liquor control
regulations may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced.
   L.   Special Event Community Festival: The City Council of the City of
Moorhead may authorize a holder of a retail on-sale intoxicating liquor license
issued by the City of Moorhead to dispense intoxicating liquor off premises at
a community festival held within the City of Moorhead. The authorization shall
specify the area in which the intoxicating liquor must be dispensed and
consumed, and shall not be issued unless the licensee demonstrates that it has
liability insurance as prescribed by section 340A.409 of the Minnesota Statutes
Annotated to cover the event.
   M.   Bluestem Center For The Arts: Notwithstanding any law or ordinance to
the contrary, in addition to the number of licenses authorized, the City of
Moorhead may issue an on-sale intoxicating liquor license to the governing body
of the Bluestem Center for the Arts on the property owned by the City of
Moorhead and within seven hundred fifty feet (750') from the door of Marcil
Commons for the premises known as the Bluestem Center for the Arts. The license
shall authorize the dispensing of intoxicating liquor only to persons attending
events on the licensed premises, and shall authorize consumption on the
licensed premises only. The license may provide that the governing body of the
Bluestem Center for the Arts may contract for intoxicating liquor catering
service with the holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the
City of Moorhead. The City Council shall establish the fee for the license.
   N.   Brewer On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor Licenses:
      1.   License Issuance: Notwithstanding any law or ordinance to the
contrary, the City of Moorhead may issue a brewer taproom license for the on-
sale of malt liquor produced on the licensed premises.
      2.   Licensed Brewer: The applicant for a license under this section must
be a brewer licensed under Minnesota Statutes section 340A.301.
      3.   Terms And Conditions Of License:
         a.   No license is valid until approved by the commission.
         b.   The on-sale of malt liquor permitted by this subsection may only
be made during the days and hours that on-sale of liquor may be made by the
holders of on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
         c.   A brewer may only hold one brewer taproom license under this
subsection and may not have an ownership interest in a brewery licensed under
Minnesota Statutes section 340A.301, subdivision 6, clause (d).
         d.   The only alcoholic beverage that may be sold or consumed on the
premises of the holder of a brewer taproom license will be the malt liquor
produced by the brewer upon the brewery premises.
         e.   Nothing in this subsection precludes the holder of a brewer
taproom license from also holding a license to operate a restaurant on the
premises of the brewery.
   O.   Brewer Off-Sale Intoxicating Liquor Licenses:
      1.   License Issuance: Notwithstanding any law or ordinance to the
contrary, the City of Moorhead may issue a license for the off-sale of malt
liquor produced and packaged on the licensed premises.
      2.   Licensed Brewer: The applicant for a license under this section must
be a brewer licensed under Minnesota Statutes section 340A.301 in order to be
licensed for the off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed
premises.
      3.   Terms And Conditions Of License:
         a.   No license is valid until approved by the City Council.
         b.   Off-sale of malt liquor permitted by this section shall be
limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the
jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, except as allowed by Minnesota
Statutes chapter 340A.
         c.   The malt liquor shall be packaged in sixty four (64) ounce
containers commonly known as "growlers", or in seven hundred fifty milliliter
(750 mL) bottles and bear a twist type closure, cork, stopper or plug.
         d.   The malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the licensed
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time of an exclusive liquor
store.
         e.   At the time of sale, the "growler" or seven hundred fifty
milliliter (750 mL) bottle must be sealed by a paper or adhesive band strip or
sleeve that is applied over the top of the twist type closure, cork, stopper or
plug in such a manner that the seal must be broken in order to open the
container, and the adhesive band or strip or sleeve shall bear the name and
address of brewer.
         f.   The "growlers" or seven hundred fifty milliliter (750 mL) bottles
shall be identified as malt liquor, contain the name of the malt liquor, and
bear the name and address of the brewer selling the malt liquor unless the
alcoholic content is labeled otherwise in accordance with applicable Minnesota
law, rules and regulations.
         g.   A brewer's total retail sales at on- or off-sale under this
section may not exceed seven thousand five hundred (7,500) barrels per year,
provided that off-sales may not total more than seven hundred fifty (750)
barrels per year, except as allowed by Minnesota statutes chapter 340A.29.
         h.   The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale under this license may
not exceed one hundred twenty-eight (128) ounces per customer per day, and must
be packager in a container or combination of containers that is in compliance
with the provisions of Minnesota Rules, parts 7515.1080 to 7515.1120.
      4.   Restrictions:
         a.   A brewer licensed under this section may hold or have an interest
in a retail on-sale license issued pursuant to this section, but may not have
an ownership interest in whole or part, or be an officer, director, agent or
any employee of, any other manufacturer, brewer, importer, or wholesaler, or be
an affiliate thereof, whether the affiliation is corporate or by management,
direction, or control, except as authorized by Minnesota Statutes section
340A.301, as amended from time to time.
         b.   A license issued under this section may not be issued to a brewer
if the brewer seeking the license, or any person having an economic interest in
the brewer seeking the license or exercising control over the brewer seeking
the license, is a brewer that brews more than twenty thousand (20,000) barrels
of its own brands of malt liquor annually.
   P.   Private College: Notwithstanding any other law, local ordinance, or
charter provision, the City of Moorhead may issue an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license to a private, nonprofit college located within the Municipality,
or to any entity holding a caterer's permit and a contract with the private,
nonprofit college for catering on the premises of the private, nonprofit
college, or for any portion of the premises as described in the approved
license application. The license authorized by this subsection may be issued
for space that is not compact and contiguous, provided that all such space is
included in the description of the licensed premises on the approved license
application. This license authorizes sales on all days of the week to persons
attending events at the private, nonprofit college.
   Q.   Sampling: Regulation of liquor sampling within the City will be
controlled by Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A, as may be amended from time to
time.
   R.   Tasting: Regulation of tasting within the City will be controlled by
Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A, as amended from time to time. Any persons
desiring to hold a tasting must first obtain a special event permit from the
City.
   S.   Theater: Notwithstanding any other law, local ordinance, or charter
provision, the City of Moorhead may issue an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license, an on-sale wine license, or an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license
to a theater within the City. A license issued under this paragraph authorizes
sales on all days of the week to persons attending events at the theater. (Ord.
2017-12, 9-25-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-16, 6-13-2022)
2-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any persons desiring to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor shall make their verified application in writing to the Council upon
such forms as the Council from time to time shall require and as from time to
time may be required under the laws of the State of Minnesota and regulations
of the Commissioner of Public Safety, and shall file the same with the City
Clerk. The application shall set forth, in addition to other information as may
from time to time be required by the Council, the following information:
      1.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of the
applicant if an individual.
      2.   The name, state of incorporation, date of incorporation if a
corporation and the name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence
of all members of the board of directors, stockholders and officers of such
corporation.
      3.   If a partnership, the name of such partnership, the address of its
principal office for doing business and the name, age, date and place of birth
and place of residence of all members of the partnership.
      4.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of the
manager, principal operator or other person who will be conducting and/or
managing the premises for which the application for license is sought.
      5.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of any
person having any financial interest in the business other than as an owner,
stockholder, director or resident manager.
      6.   The location of the premises upon which the applicant proposes to
sell such liquor and an exact description of the particular place within the
building structure where such sales are proposed.
      7.   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in a similar business,
and if so, the location thereof and the date when so engaged.
      8.   A complete and detailed description of the nature of the business
operation to be conducted on the premises, if a license is granted.
      9.   A complete listing of any and all convictions relating to any
violations of state law or ordinances of any jurisdiction for the use or
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor and a complete
listing of all gross misdemeanor and felony convictions whatsoever.
      10.   The applicants, their resident managers and any other persons
required by the police department during the course of its investigation of the
application as hereinafter set forth shall furnish as a part of the application
fingerprints for aid and assistance to the police department in conducting
their investigation.
   B.   Each application shall also be accompanied by a certified check, money
order, cashier's check, or cash in an amount equal to the annual license fee
for one year for the license for which application is being made. In addition,
each application made for a license shall be accompanied by a bond from a
surety company in form and content as required by Minnesota statutes. The
surety company shall be approved by the council and the bond shall be approved
as to form and substance by city staff. Any license holders who operate a
liquor business without having on file at all times with the city clerk an
effective bond shall have their license immediately revoked.
   C.   The applicants shall be bound by all of the answers and information
furnished on the application presented to the city of Moorhead and any
falsification of information requested on said application, or any other
information requested by the city in its course of investigation of the
applicants or their resident manager shall be grounds for denial of the license
and, in addition thereto, shall be grounds for revocation of the license if the
license is approved and issued prior to the discovery of such falsification.
   D.   On or before April 15 of each year, the holder of any license issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall present to the city a new
application for renewal of said license from the period of July 1 of said year
to June 30 of the following year for review by the police department of the
city containing all of the information required for a new application under the
terms and conditions of this chapter, together with specific information as to
any change in ownership, financial backing, officers, directors or resident
managers occurring since the issuance of the license or the previous approval
of the renewal of the license. If said application for renewal is not timely
received, the nonreceipt of said application shall be grounds for nonrenewal of
the license for the next license period by the city council. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-
15-2002)
2-3-5: LICENSE AND BOND FEES; LICENSE TERM:
   A.   Liquor License Fees: As established by the city's fee schedule.
   B.   Fees Paid Into General Fund: All license fees shall be paid into the
general fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license
hereunder, the city shall refund the amount paid, less any investigation costs
incurred by the city as hereinafter set forth.
   C.   Term Of License: All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except for the eight (8)
month on-sale public golf course license, and except that if a portion of the
license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued
for the remainder of the year on a pro rata fee basis. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month. (Ord. 2016-03,
2-18-2016)
2-3-6: RESIDENT MANAGER:
   A.   If a license holder is a person other than an individual engaged in the
active day to day management of the business, such license holder shall
designate in writing to the city the name of a resident manager.
   B.   If a license holder is an individual, such individual shall be a
resident of the city and shall be involved in the operation of the business in
the same manner as a designated resident manager and, if not, shall designate a
resident manager who will have the same requirements as a resident manager for
a person other than an individual license holder.
   C.   In the event designated resident managers are required under the terms
of this chapter for a license holder, the designated resident managers shall be
individuals actively engaged in the day to day management of the business and
shall have usual and customary duties and responsibilities consistent with the
direction of the operation of the business, including, but not limited to, the
authority to hire and fire employees, set operation policy, secure
entertainment, purchase inventory to be used in the operation of the business,
and such other usual and customary responsibilities. The resident managers
shall be residents of Clay County, Minnesota, or Cass County, North Dakota, at
all times during their designation as resident managers. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-
2002)
2-3-7: GRANTING OF LICENSES:
   A.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a license, together
with the accompanying license fee and surety bond, the city clerk shall
determine if such application is in order as to content and execution. The city
clerk shall then refer the application to the police department of the city for
an investigation of the background and character of the applicant and any
persons associated with applicant in the conduct of the business proposed to be
licensed. The investigation, among other things, should reveal the character
and/or reputation of the applicant for a license and the applicant's ability
and willingness to comply with the terms of this chapter. The police
investigation shall include a criminal background check. In the event a
national criminal background investigation is required, the applicant shall be
responsible for all additional fees incurred for such and, upon request,
provide additional information required to complete this process. All
applicants are required to complete an informed consent authorizing the
disclosure of all criminal history record information. The council shall act
and either approve or deny the issuance of said license on the basis of said
investigation.
   B.   Change In Resident Manager: In the event a license holder is required
by the terms of this chapter to have a designated resident manager, the license
holder shall report the change of said resident manager to the city clerk
within fifteen (15) days and shall submit an application to the city clerk for
approval of said resident manager. The city clerk shall then refer the
application to the police department for review and investigation in the same
manner as the investigation for a new applicant for a license. (Ord. 2006-12,
6-19-2006)
2-3-8: INVESTIGATION EXPENSE:
The applicant for a license shall be responsible for the cost of investigation
conducted by the police department of the city in connection with the
processing of the application for a license. The cost of an in state
investigation of an application shall not exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), and the cost of an out of state investigation of an applicant shall
not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). In connection with any
application for a license, a minimum fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
shall be charged to the applicant. Said fee shall be submitted to the city
clerk, along with the initial license application. Any further investigation
fees shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of a license if the
application is approved by the council. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license is issued and
such persons as may from time to time be designated as resident managers to
carry out all of the terms and conditions of this chapter, and any violations
of this chapter or of the laws of the state of Minnesota, whether committed by
the person holding the license, the resident manager or an employee of said
license holder will be grounds for suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the
license.
It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license to operate a
licensed establishment is issued and such persons designated as resident
managers from time to time to conduct the place of business in a manner to
maintain order and sobriety within the place of business and in the areas
adjacent to the place of business so as not to interfere with the conduct of
business of other persons within the city. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Any persons holding a license to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor shall agree, by acceptance of the license, if the issuance of said
license is approved by the city, that their place of business will be open to
inspection by authorized city personnel, without notice, at any time during
normal business hours. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-11: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License To Applicant And Premises Only: Each license shall be issued to
the applicant only and shall be issued for the premises described in the
license application.
   B.   Transfer Of License: No license may be transferred to another person or
to another place without the approval of the council.
   C.   Location Restrictions: In all events, the sale of intoxicating liquor
or 3.2 percent malt liquor is forbidden at the following places:
      1.   Within the residential or multiple dwelling districts of the city.
      2.   At such places as are forbidden by state statute.
      3.   Within three hundred feet (300') of the property line of any state
or private college that is located within the institutional district and
measured as follows:
At Minnesota State University - Moorhead the distance is measured from any
point along the campus property lines:
   Area A: East of 11th Street South and identified as parcel identification
numbers 58.514.0010, 58.514.0020, 58.514.0030; and
   Area B: Between 6th and 9th Avenues South, East of 10th Street, and
identified as parcel identification numbers 58.296.0700, 58.296.0710,
58.296.0720, 58.296.0730, 58.296.0740, 58.296.0750, 58.296.0760, 58.296.0770,
58.296.0780, 58.296.0790, 58.296.0800, 58.296.0810, 58.296.0820, 58.296.0830,
58.296.0840, 58.296.0850, 58.296.0860, 58.296.1170, 58.296.1180, 58.296.1190,
58.296.1200, 58.296.1210, 58.296.1220, 58.296.1230, 58.296.1240, 58.296.1250,
58.296.1260, 58.296.1270, 58.296.1280, 58.296.1290, 58.296.1300, 58.296.1310,
58.296.1320, 58.296.1330, 58.296.1335, 58.296.1340, 58.296.1350, 58.296.1360,
58.296.1370, 58.296.1380, 58.296.1390, 58.296.1400, 58.296.1410, 58.726.0010,
58.726.0020, 58.726.0030, 58.726.0040, 58.726.0050, 58.726.0060, and
58.726.0070.
   At Concordia College the distance is measured from any point along the
primary campus property lines, also identified as parcel identification numbers
58.153.0010, 58.754.0720 and 58.900.1560.
   At Minnesota State Community College the distance from any point along the
primary campus property line, also identified as parcel identification number
58.500.0010.
   Measurements should commence from the property line of said college to the
closest wall of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold. If the distance between the property line of the college and the closest
wall of the establishment is more than three hundred feet (300'), the
establishment may apply for a liquor license and will not be denied based on
the above described buffer.
   Except that:
         a.   A license, authorized by resolution of the Moorhead city council
in accordance with section 340A.404 of the Minnesota liquor laws, may be issued
to a location on the grounds of a state university or private college for an
event sponsored by the state university or private college and approved by the
university and/or college president.
         b.   Restaurants, where the preparation, service, and sale of food or
meals is the principal business from which the majority of the business income
is derived, with an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license and an on-sale wine
license, are permitted to sell intoxicating malt liquor, 3.2 percent malt
liquor, and wine within three hundred feet (300') of any state university or
private college.
      4.   For any premises on which taxes, assessments or any other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   D.   Server Training Required: All on-sale intoxicating and 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses issued under the provisions of this title, are required to send
all managers and employees involved in the sales of alcoholic beverages at said
licensed establishment to a server training course, as approved by the Moorhead
police department.
      1.   Persons successfully completing the approved class will receive a
"server training certificate card", which shall remain with said individual
wherever employed. The "server training certificate card" is not required to be
in said person's possession during hours of employment at a licensed
establishment, provided the card can be produced within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   The "server training certificate card" must be renewed every three
(3) years.
      3.   All new establishments are required, within ninety (90) days of
opening, to provide the Moorhead police department with a roster of managers
and employees depicting the expiration date of their "server training
certificate card".
      4.   Recently hired managers and employees not having in their possession
a current "server training certificate card" must, within ninety (90) days of
the employment start date, successfully complete an approved server training
class.
      5.   All on-sale liquor establishments are required to submit along with
the license renewal applications, a complete roster of managers and employees
involved in serving alcoholic beverages to the Moorhead police department. Said
roster is to include the expiration date of the respective individuals' "server
training certificate card".
Failure to comply with the above referenced requirements will result in the
delay of the liquor license renewal and/or suspension of said license until
date of compliance. (Ord. 2004-29, 10-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2008-20, 9-22-2008;
Ord. 2013-20, 11-25-2013; Ord. 2019-11, 12-9-2019)
2-3-12: RESTRICTED SALES:
   A.   Source Of Purchase For Consumption On Premises: No person shall possess
nor consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor on the premises of a
licensed on-sale liquor or on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor establishment unless
the intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor has been purchased for
consumption on said premises from the premises licensee, unless the premises is
licensed for a consumption and display license 1 .
   B.   Sale Of Beer In Kegs:
      1.   Registration And Marking Required: Any off-sale intoxicating liquor
licensee who sells beer in a container with a liquid capacity greater than six
(6) gallons must place a distinctive symbol, notation or mark unique to the
licensee on the container and must also mark the container with a registration
number, letter, or combination of both, unique to that container. The paint or
ink used to mark the containers or other manner of marking the containers shall
be approved by the police department.
      2.   Identification Required: Whenever a licensee sells beer in a
container with a liquid capacity greater than six (6) gallons, the licensee
shall record the date of sale and the name, address and driver's license number
or record or other official state or military identification card of the person
to whom the beer is sold, together with requiring the purchaser's signature and
recording the registration number, letters, or combination of both, inscribed
on the container by the licensee. Such records must be retained for a period of
no less than six (6) months from the date of sale and must be kept on the
licensed premises where the sales are made.
      3.   Registration And Inspection: Each licensee shall register its unique
identification symbol, notation or mark with the police department and must
permit any authorized city personnel to inspect the licensee's records required
to be kept pursuant to this subsection during times the licensee is normally
open for business or at such other times as licensee may request.
      4.   Exemption: This subsection B does not apply to the sale of beer in a
container by an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor or an on-sale intoxicating
liquor licensee if the contents of the container are consumed on the licensed
premises where the sales occur.
   C.   Sunday Sales Of 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor: No Sunday on-sales of 3.2
percent malt liquor shall be permitted within the city, except that restaurants
holding on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses may sell such beverages on
Sundays under the same regulations as provided for the holders of Sunday on-
sale intoxicating liquor licenses within the city. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2-3-3I of this chapter.
2-3-13: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE:
   A.   The hours and days of sale for licenses issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter shall be the same as those set forth in the provisions of
Minnesota statutes chapter 340A adopted by reference as a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-14, 11-17-2003)
   B.   For license holders who have a two o'clock (2:00) A.M. license from the
state of Minnesota, no patrons of on-sale license holders shall remain on the
licensed premises after two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M., and in any event no
persons except bona fide employees of the license holder or a janitorial
service shall remain on the licensed premises after two thirty o'clock (2:30)
A.M., unless they are actively engaged in a cleanup operation for the premises.
No person, including employees of licensed premises or of the cleaning service
shall consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor on the
licensed premises after two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. until the licensed
premises can next properly be opened for business. Any unconsumed intoxicating
liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor remaining on the premises, other than that
necessary for inventory purposes, shall be disposed of at two thirty o'clock
(2:30) A.M. No unconsumed intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor shall
be removed from the premises for consumption at a different place by any
employee or patron. (Ord. 2004-26, 9-20-2004)
   C.   For all other license holders, no patrons of on-sale license holders
shall remain on the licensed premises after one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. and
in any event no persons except bona fide employees of the license holder or a
janitorial service shall remain on the licensed premises after one thirty
o'clock (1:30) A.M. unless they are actively engaged in a cleanup operation for
the premises. No person, including employees of licensed premises or of the
cleaning service shall consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor on the licensed premises after one thirty o'clock (1:30) A.M. until the
licensed premises can next properly be opened for business. Any unconsumed
intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor remaining on the premises, other
than that necessary for inventory purposes, shall be disposed of at one thirty
o'clock (1:30) A.M. No unconsumed intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor shall be removed from the premises for consumption at a different place
by any employee or patron. (Ord. 2003-14, 11-17-2003)
2-3-14: MINORS:
   A.   Entering Licensed Premises: It is unlawful for a person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to enter an establishment licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages within the City, except:
      1.   State Exceptions For Minors: No person eighteen (18), nineteen (19),
or twenty (20) years old will be prohibited from entering an establishment
licensed under this chapter to perform work for the establishment, consume
meals, or attend social functions in accordance with Minnesota Statutes,
section 340A.503, subdivision 4.
      2.   Local Exceptions For Minors: Except as otherwise required by this
subsection A, no person under the age of twenty one (21) years may enter an
establishment licensed for the sale of alcohol, except as follows:
         a.   Persons Eighteen, Nineteen, Or Twenty Years Of Age: If eighteen
(18), nineteen (19), or twenty (20) years of age, a person may consume food on
the premises of a liquor establishment or a restaurant and be present in the
establishment for such time as that person is, in fact, purchasing and
consuming food.
         b.   Restaurants: Persons under the age of eighteen (18) may purchase
and consume food on the premises of a restaurant which also holds a liquor
license. A "restaurant", for the purposes of this section, is defined as a
public place kept, used and maintained as a place where meals are prepared,
served and sold to members of the general public and where the preparation,
service and sale of food or meals is the principal business from which the
majority of the business income is derived, or that area of a hotel or motel
which is designated as a restaurant or food service area, principally providing
meals rather than alcoholic beverages. For the purposes of this section, a
restaurant is not a bar, tavern, club, nightclub or any other place which has
as its principal business the sale of alcoholic beverages, or the presentation
of live entertainment, the playing of billiards or other amusement devices, or
gambling combined together in a place where alcoholic beverages are sold.
Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be present in restaurants
which also hold liquor licenses only for as long as they are purchasing food,
awaiting the service of food and are consuming food, unless in the company of a
parent or guardian.
         c.   Clubs: Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years may, in the
company of a parent or guardian, who is a member or guest of the club, purchase
or consume food on the premises of a club. A "club" is as defined in section
2-3-2 of this chapter. Persons under the age of eighteen (18) shall be present
in a club only for so long as purchasing or consuming food.
         d.   Bars, Nightclubs: Persons under the age of eighteen (18) years
shall not be present in a bar, tavern, nightclub, or any other place which has
its principal business the sale of alcoholic beverages or in any business which
derives the majority of its income from the sale of alcohol along with live
entertainment, billiard playing, gambling or amusement devices; except that
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years may enter these establishments in
the company of their parent or guardian and then only for so long as food is
being purchased or consumed.
         e.   Weddings, Anniversaries, Retirement Parties: When social
functions that relate to the celebration of a wedding, an anniversary of
marriage or retirement party are held in an establishment licensed for the sale
of alcohol, persons under the age of twenty one (21) years may attend, but may
only be present for the purpose of celebrating the occasion and not for the
purpose of purchasing, being served or consuming any alcoholic beverage.
         f.   Employees: Persons under the age of twenty one (21) may be
employed as an entertainer or food service worker in any establishment that
holds a liquor license. Any such worker, under eighteen (18) years of age, is
prohibited from serving any alcoholic beverage.
         g.   Banquet Facilities: Persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years may attend, but may only be present for the purpose of attending the
event for which the banquet facility is rented and not for the purpose of
purchasing, being served or consuming any alcoholic beverage.
   B.   Providing Alcohol To Minors: No person shall furnish intoxicating
liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, nor shall any persons allow such person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to consume or possess intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquors in
any residential, multiple dwelling unit, hotel or motel room or any other
premises under their control or supervision, except that the parent or guardian
of such persons under the age of twenty one (21) years may furnish such
intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to such persons in their own
residence and as otherwise permitted by State law.
   C.   Minor Consuming Or Possessing Offense:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
to possess an alcoholic beverage, or to have consumed an alcoholic beverage in
any place other than the household of the person's parent or guardian with the
consent of the parent or guardian.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to have any measurable amount of alcohol in their system. A measurable
amount of alcohol is any such amount of alcohol as is shown by testing on a
breath testing device, including portable breath testing devices such as alco-
sensor, or on an intoxilyzer, or by analysis of a blood or urine sample for
alcohol. (Ord. 2018-04, 2-26-2018)
2-3-15: OPEN BOTTLE LAW:
No persons shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption, nor shall any persons
consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor, nor shall any
persons have in their possession in an open container any intoxicating liquor
or 3.2 percent malt liquor in any public place or place of business not
licensed to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale. No
persons shall consume nor shall any persons have in their possession an open
container of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in any motor
vehicle within the City at any time. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-16: DELIVERIES OF LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
All off-sale liquor licensees may make deliveries of intoxicating liquor or 3.2
percent malt liquor within the State of Minnesota to a purchaser; provided,
however, that such delivery shall be made only to a person twenty one (21)
years of age or older, and then only to the person who originally made the
order. Any deliveries pursuant to this section must occur during hours when
sales of intoxicating liquors otherwise would be legal, except no delivery of
alcohol to an off-sale licensee may be made by a wholesaler or accepted by an
off-sale licensee on a Sunday. No order solicitation or merchandising may be
made by a wholesaler on a Sunday. Deliveries pursuant to this section shall be
documented by the liquor license holder, said documentation to include a
delivery invoice indicating the name of the person who purchased and paid for
the order, the approximate time of the order, the signature of the person
accepting said delivery and the time of the delivery, the name and address of
the sellers, and the signature of the person delivering the order. The invoice
shall also itemize the number, size and brands of intoxicating liquor and/or
3.2 percent malt liquor to be delivered, and proof of age. Proof of age shall
be determined only by a valid driver's license or Minnesota identification card
containing a picture identification. All license holders must make said
delivery record available to inspection by authorized City personnel upon their
request and must keep said records upon the licensed premises for one year from
date of delivery for inspection pursuant to section
2-3-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-12, 9-25-2017)
2-3-17: ENTERTAINMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: No entertainment on a licensed premises shall contain:
      1.   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or
genitals;
      4.   The performance of any nude dancing or display of nudity by
employees of the licensed premises or patrons of the licensed premises.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall mean:
   ENTERTAINMENT: All forms and types of performing or entertaining for patrons
on licensed premises without regard to whether the person performing or
entertaining is paid a monetary consideration or other consideration or merely
performs or entertains without consideration.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks or the human female breast including the nipple or any portion below
the nipple with less than a full opaque covering; provided, however, for
entertainment purposes only "with less than a full opaque covering" shall mean
or include the wearing of pasties.
   C.   Licensee's Responsibility: A licensee shall have the duty and
responsibility of supervising all "entertainment" as defined herein and any
violation of this section shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the
liquor license held by the licensee. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-18: PARK RESTRICTION:
Possession or consumption of any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquors in any City park shall be restricted in accordance with section
6-1-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-19: INACTIVITY OF LICENSE:
No license issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be held for a
period longer than one year after its approval for issuance by the Council
without being actively used to operate a business for which the license is
obtained. In the event the license is not made active within the period of one
year from approval of its issuance, the Council may revoke said license and any
license fees paid for such license shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-
2002)
2-3-20: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The Council may deny, suspend or revoke any license defined by the provisions
of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of section
2-1-10 of this title. (Ord. 2002-14, 7-15-2002)
2-3-21: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this Code. In addition, any person or entity violating any of the
provisions set out in subsection A of this section will also be subject to the
automatic sanctions as set forth in subsection A of this section. The City
Manager, upon receipt of a report of such violation, shall send out written
notice of the violation to the liquor license holder and the sanctions to be
automatically imposed in accordance with the schedule in subsection A of this
section. Alternatively, if the City Manager determines that the alleged
violation(s) are so serious that a harsher sanction than the sanctions set out
below may be appropriate, the City Manager may refer the matter to the City
Council for action pursuant to the provisions and procedures of section
2-1-10 of this title. In such case, the City Council may impose any sanction
they deem appropriate, whether or not it is more severe than the automatic
sanctions set out below. The liquor license holder, within ten (10) days of
receipt of the notice, may file a written request with the City Clerk
requesting a hearing before the City Council to contest the sanction. If a
hearing is requested, the sanction will be suspended until after the hearing
before the City Council. For a fourth, or subsequent violation, of a violation
set forth in subsection A of this section within a twenty four (24) month
period from the first violation, or for a violation of this chapter not set
forth in subsection A of this section, the licensed liquor holder may be
subject to an administrative fine not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) and suspension or revocation of the liquor license after action of
the City Council in accordance with the provisions and procedures of section
2-1-10 of this title.
   A.   Automatic Sanctions For Specified Liquor Violations: The following
schedule is adopted for the imposition of automatic sanctions for the specified
violations with no City Council action necessary.
Each occurrence shall be considered a separate/individual violation for which
the application of the following sanctions shall be imposed. Multiple
violations that occur simultaneously shall be construed as one offense,
although may be as a basis for the City Manager to recommend Council action
rather than an automatic sanction. For example, serving five (5) underaged
persons at one table would be one offense for purposes of automatic sanctions.
For sanctions 1 through 7 below, a violation of any one of the seven (7) would
be treated as a second violation if there were a prior violation of any of the
seven (7) offenses within a twenty four (24) month period, likewise for
determining third and fourth offenses. In regard to violation of codes in
sanction 7, the City Manager may determine not to impose an automatic sanction
nor to refer the matter for Council action, if the violation is not life safety
related and is remedied in a timely manner by the licensee upon notice of the
violation.
                                2nd Violation  3rd Violation
Type Of Violation 1st Violation (Within 24     (Within 24
                                Months Of Any  Months Of Any
                                1st Violation) 1st Violation)
                                        2nd Violation       3rd Violation
Type Of Violation   1st Violation       (Within 24          (Within 24
                                        Months Of Any       Months Of Any
                                        1st Violation)      1st Violation)
1. Sell, serve or                       1 day suspension    3 day suspension
furnish alcoholic   Written warning     and $500.00         and $1,000.00
beverages to an                         administrative fine administrative fine
underage person
2. Sell, serve or
furnish alcoholic   $250.00             1 day suspension    3 day suspension
beverages to an     administrative fine and $500.00         and $1,000.00
obviously                               administrative fine administrative fine
intoxicated person
3. Sell, serve or                       1 day suspension    3 day suspension
furnish alcoholic   $250.00             and $500.00         and $1,000.00
beverages after     administrative fine administrative fine administrative fine
hours
4. Consumption of
alcoholic beverages
after permitted     $250.00             1 day suspension    3 day suspension
hours (in           administrative fine and $500.00         and $1,000.00
accordance to                           administrative fine administrative fine
subsection 2-3-13B
of this chapter)
5. Illegal gambling $250.00             1 day suspension    3 day suspension
on premises         administrative fine and $500.00         and $1,000.00
                                        administrative fine administrative fine
6. Allow person to                      1 day suspension    3 day suspension
leave premises with $250.00             and $500.00         and $1,000.00
an alcoholic        administrative fine administrative fine administrative fine
beverage
7. Violations of
City Code/State law $250.00             1 day suspension    3 day suspension
pertaining to Fire, administrative fine and $500.00         and $1,000.00
Building or Health                      administrative fine administrative fine
Codes
8. Failure to pay
an administrative   1 day suspension    3 day suspension    5 day suspension
fine within 30 days
of its imposition
 
 
Type Of Violation                    1st Violation               2nd Violation
9. Commission of a felony related to 10 - 25 consecutive days of Revocation
the licensed activity                suspension
10. Sell, serve or furnish alcoholic
beverages while license is under     Revocation                  n/a
suspension
 
(Ord. 2014-10, 6-9-2014)
2-3-22: COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
Any person holding a license to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor shall be subject to a minimum of four (4) compliance checks per year to
determine if alcohol is being sold or disbursed to minors. Minors employed by
the City or its Police Department in connection with compliance checks shall
not be banned from entering any license holder's premises. If it is determined
that any person holding a license to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent
malt liquor has banned a minor employed by or volunteering with the City or its
Police Department in connection with the compliance checks, the license shall
be suspended for a period of not less than fourteen (14) days. (Ord. 2014-10,
6-9-2014)
2-3-23: SPECIAL HOURS LICENSE:
   A.   License Issuance: Any person operating under an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license, on-sale wine license, or on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor
license who desires to remain open for the service of food later than the hours
provided in section
2-3-13 of this chapter may apply to the City Council for a special hours
license. Applications shall be made on a form provided by the licensing
official, containing such information as the licensing official deems necessary
to verify that the conditions of this section have been met and to make a
recommendation regarding the application.
   B.   Term Of License And Fee: All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each
year, and the annual fee for a license shall be established by the City's fee
schedule. Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if
a portion of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a
license may be issued for the remainder of the year on a pro rata fee basis. In
computing such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one
month. Upon submitting an application for a license, the applicant shall submit
the corresponding annual fee. In the event an application is rejected, the City
shall refund the annual fee submitted.
   C.   Number Of Licenses: The number of special hours licenses at any time
issued and outstanding shall not exceed twenty five (25).
   D.   Conditions Of Issuance:
      1.   No special hours license shall be issued unless the establishment
complies at all times with the following conditions:
         a.   The establishment shall be a banquet facility as defined in
section
2-3-2 of this chapter in which the meal service required by section
2-3-2 of this chapter is actually available during the special hours of
operation authorized under the license, or
         b.   The establishment shall be a restaurant which:
            (1)   Meets the definition of a restaurant defined in section
2-3-2 of this chapter while the establishment is operating with a special hours
license, and
            (2)   Maintains a substantial menu available during special hours
which includes at least four (4) entrees, sandwiches, or other principal food
items, and
            (3)   Keeps its business open for at least eight (8) continuous
hours daily except Sunday, twelve (12) months a year, not including any hours
authorized by its special hours license.
      2.   The City Council may issue a special hours license subject to
additional conditions including, but not limited to:
         a.   Limitation on the special hours of operation or the days of the
week on which special hours are authorized;
         b.   Requirements concerning menu items;
         c.   Requirements concerning staffing or security levels; and
         d.   Any other requirement reasonably related to concerns of security,
noise, litter, parking, or traffic.
   E.   Responsibility For Conduct Of Business:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license is
issued and such persons as may from time to time be designated as managers to
carry out all of the terms and conditions of this section, and any violations
of this section or of the laws of the State of Minnesota, whether committed by
the person holding the license, the manager or an employee of said license
holder will be grounds for suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the license.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license to
operate a licensed establishment is issued and such persons designated as
managers from time to time to conduct the place of business in a manner to
maintain order within the place of business and in the areas adjacent to the
place of business so as not to interfere with the conduct of business of other
persons within the City.
   F.   Inspection Of Premises: Any persons holding a special hours license
shall agree, by acceptance of the license, if the issuance of said license is
approved by the City, that their place of business will be open to inspection
by authorized City personnel, without notice, at any time during normal
business hours.
   G.   Revocation Of License: The City Council may deny, suspend or revoke any
special hours license in accordance with the provisions of section
2-1-10 of this title. (Ord. 2018-04, 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 4
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Exceptions To Definitions
2-4-3: Licensing; Exemptions
2-4-4: License Ineligibility
2-4-5: License Suspension And Revocation
2-4-6: License Transferability
2-4-7: Registration
2-4-8: Prohibited Activities
2-4-9: Exclusion By Placard
2-4-10: Penalties
2-4-11: Severability
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all the
terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of
this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
NONCOMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR ADVOCATE: A person who goes door to door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this chapter, the term "door to door
advocate" shall fall under the term "solicitor" and include door to door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for noncommercial purposes.
PEDDLER: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this chapter, the term "peddler"
shall have the same common meaning as the term "hawker".
PERSON: Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation, partnership,
or similar association.
PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER: Any person, including a corporation or other entity,
who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for a
religious, political, social, or other charitable organization.
REGULAR BUSINESS DAY: Any day during which the city hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law shall
not be considered regular business days.
SOLICITOR: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining, or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
chapter, the term "solicitor" shall have the same meaning as the term
"canvasser".
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: A person who temporarily sets up business out of a vehicle,
trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty storefront for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and
delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property and
who does not remain in any one location for more than fourteen (14) consecutive
days. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-2: EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms "peddler", "solicitor", and
"transient merchant" shall not apply to:
   A.   Noncommercial Door To Door Advocates: Nothing within this chapter shall
be interpreted to prohibit or restrict noncommercial door to door advocates. A
person engaging in door to door advocacy shall not be required to register as a
solicitor under section
2-4-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Wholesaler: Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any
goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail
seller of the items being sold by the wholesaler.
   C.   Perishable Foods; Initial Contact: Any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products, such as baked goods or milk.
   D.   Perishable Foods; Established Delivery Routes: Any person making
deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers on his or her
established delivery route.
   E.   Newspaper Delivery Routes: Any person making deliveries of newspapers,
newsletters, or other similar publications on an established customer delivery
route, when attempting to establish a regular delivery route, or when
publications are delivered to the community at large.
   F.   Garage Sales: Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales.
   G.   Flea Markets: Any person participating in an organized multiperson
bazaar or flea market.
   H.   Auctions: Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed
auctioneer.
   I.   Court Ordered Sale: Any officer of the court conducting a court ordered
sale.
   J.   Nonprofit Fundraising For Schools Or Religious Organizations: Any
person or entity conducting or participating in a nonprofit, fundraising door
to door sale for a public or private school, educational or religious
organization.
Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by another city ordinance. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-3: LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   City License Required: Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to section
2-4-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Application: An application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least ten (10) regular business
days before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation
within the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by
the city council and available from the Moorhead police department. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include
the following information:
      1.   The applicant's full legal name.
      2.   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to.
      3.   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like).
      4.   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      5.   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      6.   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent.
      7.   Full address of applicant's regular place of business, if any
exists.
      8.   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      9.   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      10.   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      11.   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
If the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or she
will be conducting business within the city, with a maximum of fourteen (14)
consecutive days.
      12.   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant can
be reached while conducting business within the city, including the location
where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business.
      13.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five (5) years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
for violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
minor traffic offenses.
      14.   A list of the three (3) most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      15.   Proof of any required county license.
      16.   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant.
      17.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      18.   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the city council.
      19.   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form of
identification.
      20.   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
      21.   A statement whether the individual is required to register as a sex
offender.
   C.   Fee: All applicants for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by a fee as established in the fee schedule.
   D.   Procedure: Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the Moorhead police department will, within two (2) regular business days,
determine if the application is complete. An application will be considered
complete if all required information is provided. If the Moorhead police
department determines that the application is incomplete, the Moorhead police
department must inform the applicant of the required, necessary information
that is missing. If the application is complete, the Moorhead police department
must order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify
the information provided with the application. Within ten (10) regular business
days of receiving a complete application, the Moorhead police department must
issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license application
under section
2-4-4 of this chapter, in which case the Moorhead police department must deny
the request for a city peddler or transient merchant license. If the Moorhead
police department denies the license application, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial and the applicant's
right to appeal the denial by requesting, within twenty (20) days of receiving
notice of rejection, a public hearing before the city council. The city council
shall hear the appeal within twenty (20) days of the date of the request for a
hearing. The decision of the city council following the public hearing can be
appealed by petitioning the Minnesota court of appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   E.   Duration: An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issuance. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   F.   License Exemptions:
      1.   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      2.   No license shall be required for any person going from house to
house, door to door, business to business, street to street, or any other type
of place to place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person's exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-4: LICENSE INELIGIBILITY:
The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant a
license:
   A.   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process.
   B.   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
   C.   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   D.   A conviction within the past five (5) years of the date of application
for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any
local ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person's ability to conduct
the business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest
and legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to,
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   E.   The revocation within the past five (5) years of any license issued to
an applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant.
   F.   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three (3) complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau,
the office of the Minnesota attorney general, or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding twelve (12) months, or three (3) complaints filed with the city
against an applicant within the preceding five (5) years. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-
2014)
2-4-5: LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Generally: Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the city council for violation of any of the
following:
      1.   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form.
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      3.   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under section
2-4-4 of this chapter.
      4.   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under section
2-4-8 of this chapter.
      5.   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   B.   Multiple Persons Under One License: The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   C.   Notice: Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   D.   Public Hearing: Upon receiving the notice provided in subsection C of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the Moorhead police department within
ten (10) days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within twenty (20) days from the date of the request for the public
hearing. Within three (3) regular business days of the hearing, the city
council shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   E.   Emergency: If, in the discretion of the city council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the city council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in subsection C of this section.
   F.   Appeal: Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court. (Ord. 2014-03,
3-10-2014)
2-4-6: LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY:
No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person other
than the person to whom the license was issued. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-7: REGISTRATION:
   A.   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under section
2-4-3 of this chapter shall be required to register with the city prior to
engaging in those activities. Registration shall be made on the same form
required for a license application, but no fee shall be required.
   B.   Individuals that will be engaging in noncommercial door to door
advocacy shall not be required to register. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-8: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, noncommercial door to door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct business in
any of the following manners:
   A.   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   B.   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right of way.
   C.   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   D.   Conducting business before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
   E.   Failing to provide proof of license, or registration, and
identification when requested.
   F.   Using the license or registration of another person.
   G.   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   H.   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave.
   I.   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive. (Ord. 2014-03,
3-10-2014)
2-4-9: EXCLUSION BY PLACARD:
Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, noncommercial door to door advocate, or other
person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property of
another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, noncommercial door to door advocate, or similar activity
when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
   A.   At least four inches (4") long.
   B.   At least four inches (4") wide.
   C.   With print of at least 48-point in size.
   D.   Stating "No Peddlers, Solicitors Or Transient Merchants", "Peddlers,
Solicitors, And Transient Merchants Prohibited", or comparable statement.
No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or
otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-
10-2014)
2-4-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Notwithstanding the within and foregoing penalty, the city may apply to
the district court for Clay County, Minnesota, for injunctive relief against
any individual violating this chapter in addition to the penalties for
violation thereof. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
2-4-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected. (Ord. 2014-03, 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 5
RETAILERS
ARTICLE A. SALES OF COMMERCIAL TOBACCO AND RELATED DEVICES AND PRODUCTS
SECTION:
2-5A-1: Definitions
2-5A-2: License
2-5A-3: Basis For Denial Of License
2-5A-4: Qualifications Of Licensee
2-5A-5: Administrative Remedies
2-5A-6: Criminal Penalties
2-5A-7: Prohibited Sales
2-5A-8: Self-Service Sales
2-5A-9: Responsibility
2-5A-10: Compliance Checks
2-5A-11: Other Prohibited Acts
2-5A-12: Exceptions And Defenses
2-5A-13: Severability
2-5A-14: Effective Date
2-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
CHILD RESISTANT PACKAGING: Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
code of federal regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in code
of federal regulations, title 16, section 1700.20.
CIGAR: Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in Minnesota statutes section 297F.01, subdivision 3, as
may be amended from time to time.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this article. Compliance checks shall involve the use of
persons under the age of twenty-one (21) who purchase or attempt to purchase
licensed products. Compliance checks may also be conducted by the city or other
units of government for educational, research, and training purposes or for the
purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations
relating to licensed products.
DELIVERY SALE: The sale of any licensed product to any person for personal
consumption and not for resale when the sale is conducted by any means other
than an in-person, over-the counter sales transaction in a licensed retail
establishment. Delivery Sale includes but is not limited to the sale of any
licensed product when the sale is conducted by telephone, other voice
transmission, mail, the internet, or app-based service. Delivery Sale includes
delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including curbside pick-
up.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
Electronic delivery devices includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. Electronic
delivery device includes any component part of any product that has been
approved or certified by the United States food and drug administration for
sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for
other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an approved purpose.
FLAVORED PRODUCT: Any licensed product that contains a taste or smell, other
than the taste or smell of tobacco, that is distinguishable by an ordinary
consumer either prior to or during the consumption of the product, including,
but not limited to, any taste or smell relating to chocolate, cocoa, menthol,
mint, wintergreen, vanilla, honey, fruit, or any candy, dessert, alcoholic
beverage, herb, or spice. A public statement or claim, whether express or
implied, made or disseminated by the manufacturer of a licensed product, or by
any person authorized or permitted by the manufacturer to make or disseminate
public statements concerning such products, that a product has or produces a
taste or smell other than a taste or smell of tobacco will constitute
presumptive evidence that the product is a flavored product.
INDOOR AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls,
doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than fifty percent
(50%) of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the
perimeter of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or
other physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard (0.011 gauge
with an 18 x 16 mesh count) window screen is not considered a wall.
LICENSED PRODUCTS: The term that collectively refers to tobacco, tobacco
related devices, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery
products.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single cigarette, cigars, or any
other licensed product that has been removed from its intended retail packaging
and offered for sale. The term "loosies" does not include premium cigars that
are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and
have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or
other materials used to maintain size, texture, or flavor.
MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a kiosk, truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address storefront or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS: Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in this
section. Nicotine or lobelia delivery products does not include any product
that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the United
States food and drug administration for tobacco use cessation or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include, but not be
limited to, grocery stores, gas stations, convenience stores, bars,
restaurants, and drugstores.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY: The open display of licensed products in any manner where
any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee and where a physical
exchange of the licensed product from the licensee or the licensee's employee
to the customer is not needed in order to access the licensed products.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing, made, or
derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether natural or
synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. Smoking also includes carrying or
using an activated electronic delivery device.
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, heated,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means,
or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product; including, but not
limited to, cigarettes; cigars; cheroots, stogies; perique; granulated, plug
cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour;
cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts;
refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds
and forms of tobacco. Tobacco excludes any product that has been approved by
the United States food and drug administration for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other devices
intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the
chewing, sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of vapors of tobacco or tobacco
products. Tobacco related devices include components of tobacco related devices
which may be marketed or sold separately.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens or
other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-
25-2021)
2-5A-2: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall, directly or indirectly, or by means
of any device, keep for retail sale, sell at retail, or otherwise dispose of
any licensed products without a license therefor.
   B.   Application: An application for a license to sell licensed products
must be made on a form provided by the city. Application for a license shall
state the full name and the residential and business addresses and telephone
numbers of the applicant, the name of the business, the location of the
building intended to be used by the applicant under the license, the kind of
business conducted at such location, and such other information as shall be
required by the city.
   C.   License Fee: No license shall be issued under this article until the
appropriate license fees are paid in full. The fees for such license will be as
established by the city's fee schedule.
   D.   Term: All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   E.   Revocation Or Suspension: Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the administrative remedies section of this
article.
   F.   Transfers: All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid. If a transfer is needed, the applicant will need to
reapply and submit new payment of license fees.
   G.   Movable Place Of Business: No license shall be issued to a movable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this section.
   H.   Display: All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   I.   Issuance As Privilege And Not A Right: The issuance of a license issued
under this section shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of
the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
   J.   Smoking Prohibited: Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
   K.   Distribution Of Samples: No person shall distribute samples of any
licensed product free of charge or at nominal cost.
   L.   Background Check: The police department shall conduct a criminal
background check on the applicant. In the event a national criminal background
investigation is required, the applicant shall be responsible for all
additional fees incurred for such and, upon request, provide additional
information required to complete this process. All applicants are required to
complete an informed consent authorizing the disclosure of all criminal history
record information. The city clerk and the police department shall review such
application and, without further authorization on the part of the council,
issue such license to the applicant if the applicant is eligible therefor.
   M.   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this ordinance will be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least thirty (30) days, but no more than sixty (60)
days, before the expiration of the current license.
   N.   Age Verification. Licenses must verify by means of government-issued
photographic identification that the purchaser is at least twenty-one (21)
years of age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of thirty
(30). That the person appeared to be thirty (30) years of age or older does not
constitute a defense to a violation of this subsection.
   O.   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification requirement
must be always posted prominently and in plain view at each location where
licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage, which will be
provided to the licensee by the city, must be posted in a manner that is
clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase. (Ord.
2016-05, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-3: BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The applicant is under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
      2.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
      3.   The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months of the date of application.
      4.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      5.   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   B.   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   C.   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this article. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-4: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be issued to any applicants for sale of licensed products at
any place other than their established place of business, nor shall any license
be issued for the sale of licensed products at a movable place of business, nor
at more than one place of business. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016)
2-5A-5: ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES:
   A.   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this article, or whose
employees have violated this article, shall be subject to the following
penalties, and such violation shall be cause for the imposition of an
administrative penalty, license suspension, and/or license revocation as set
forth below:
      1.   The first violation shall subject licensee to an administrative
penalty of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      2.   The second violation at the same licensed premises within thirty-six
(36) months of the first violation, shall subject licensee to a three (3) day
suspension of the license and an administrative penalty of six hundred dollars
($600.00).
      3.   The third violation within a thirty-six (36) month period shall
subject licensee to a thirty (30) day suspension of the license and an
administrative penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      4.   Upon a fourth violation within a thirty-six (36) month period the
license will be revoked.
   B.   Other Individuals: Individuals, other than persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) regulated by subsection C of this section, who are found to be
in violation of this ordinance may be charged an administrative fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Persons Under The Age Of Twenty-One (21): Persons under the age of
twenty-one (21) who violate this ordinance may only be subject to non-criminal,
non-monetary penalties such as tobacco related education classes, diversion
programs, community services, or another penalty that the city determines to be
appropriate. The city council will consult with court personnel, educators,
parents, children, and other interested parties to determine an appropriate
penalty for persons under the age of twenty-one (21) in the city. The penalty
may be established by ordinance and amended from time to time.
   D.   Administrative Hearing/Waiver: Upon receipt of information indicating
that a violation has occurred, the city manager or his/her designee shall
personally serve or send by certified mail notice to the person accused of the
violation. The notice shall indicate the nature of the violation and whether
such violation will result in an administrative penalty, license suspension, or
license revocation. The notice shall also indicate that the person has the
option of requesting a hearing before the city council prior to the license
suspension, revocation, or imposition of a penalty, or waiving such hearing and
accepting the disposition described in the notice. The person shall file a
written request for a hearing within ten (10) days of the date specified in the
license violation notice, or licensee shall be deemed to have waived its right
to a hearing. Upon receipt of a hearing request, the city manager or his
designee shall schedule a hearing before the city council at the earliest
opportunity and shall send a hearing notice by certified mail. The decision of
the city council must be in writing. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-
12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-6: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Subsequent Offenses: Nothing in this section prohibits the city from
seeking prosecutions as a misdemeanor for an alleged second violation of this
ordinance by a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older within five (5)
years of a previous conviction under the ordinance.
   B.   Immunity Clause: A person under eighteen (18) years of age who
purchases or attempts to purchase licensed products while under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult for training, education, research, or
enforcement purposes which have been approved by the city manager or his
designee shall not be subject to a criminal penalty. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016;
amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-7: PROHIBITED SALES:
It shall be a violation of this section for any person to sell or offer to sell
any licensed product:
   A.   To any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   By means of any type of vending machine.
   C.   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the licensed product and whereby there is not a physical
exchange between the licensee, or the licensee's employee, and the customer.
   D.   By means of "loosies" as defined in section
2-5A-1 of this article.
   E.   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products.
   F.   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to sell or offer
to sell any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is
intended for human consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in
packaging that is not child resistant. Upon request, a licensee shall provide a
copy of the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used.
   G.   At any place other than for where the license was issued.
   H.   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation.
   I.   By means of delivery sales. All sales of licensed products must be
conducted in person, in a licensed retail establishment, in over-the-counter
sales transactions.
   J.   To accept or redeem any coupon, price promotion, or other instrument or
mechanism, whether in paper, digital, electronic, mobile, or any other form,
that provides any licensed products to a consumer at no cost or at a price that
is less than the non-discounted, standard price listed by a retailer on the
item or on any related shelving, posting, advertising, or display at the
location where the item is sold or offered for sale, including all applicable
taxes.
   K.   To sell or offer for sale any flavored products. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-
2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-8: SELF-SERVICE SALES:
No person shall allow the sale of licensed products by self-service displays
where the customer may have access to those items without having to request the
item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a
physical exchange of the licensed product between the licensee or the
licensee's employee and the customer. All licensed products shall either be
stored behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in
a case or other storage unit not left open and accessible to the general
public. Any retailer selling licensed products at the time this chapter is
adopted shall comply with this section within ninety (90) days following the
effective date of this section. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12,
10-25-2021)
2-5A-9: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees under this section shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of licensed product on the licensed premises,
and the sale of an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the
license holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the
city from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under
this section, state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016)
2-5A-10: COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least four (4) times per year, the city will conduct compliance checks. In
accordance with state law, the city will conduct a compliance check that
involves the participation of a person at least seventeen (17) years of age,
but under the age of twenty-one (21) to enter the licensed premises to attempt
to purchase licensed products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian
is required for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to participate in a
compliance check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks will be
supervised by law enforcement or other designated personnel. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-
13-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-11: OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS:
Prohibited Furnishing or Procurement: It is a violation of this ordinance for
any person twenty-one (21) years of age or older to purchase or otherwise
obtain any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of twenty-one
(21). It is a violation for any person twenty-one (21) years of age and older
to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under the age of twenty-one (21) to
purchase or attempt to purchase any licensed product. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016;
amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-25-2021)
2-5A-12: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Nothing in this section shall prevent the providing of any licensed product to
a minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural
ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this section
for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state
law. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016)
2-5A-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section or provision of this article is held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other sections or provisions which can be given force and
effect without the invalidated section or provision. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016)
2-5A-14: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter becomes effective at midnight on January 1, 2022. (Ord. 2021-12,
10-25-2021)
ARTICLE B. SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
2-5B-1: Definitions
2-5B-2: License Requirements And Provisions
2-5B-3: License Fee And Bond
2-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
A "secondhand dealer" is any person who buys goods for sale except where the
goods or property are purchased from a manufacturer or wholesale dealer having
an established place of business. (Ord. 125; amd. 1967 Code §52.01; Ord. 711,
5-5-1980)
2-5B-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall exercise, carry on or be engaged in
the trade or business of a secondhand dealer without a license therefor.
   B.   Application For License: Application for a secondhand dealer's license
shall be made on forms prescribed by the city and shall be filed with the city
clerk and shall contain thereon the following information:
      1.   Name, address and date of birth of applicant;
      2.   Address of the place of business;
      3.   Name under which the business is to be conducted;
      4.   Address of applicant for the ten (10) years immediately preceding
the filing of the application;
      5.   Name and address of all persons having a financial interest in
applicant's business, including ownership or financing interests;
      6.   Applicant's employment record for the ten (10) years preceding the
application with the name and address of all employers;
      7.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name and address of any
proposed resident managers who shall be residents of the city and the address
of such resident managers for the ten (10) years immediately preceding the
filing of the application, their employment record for each ten (10) year
period and their dates of birth.
   C.   Investigation: Each new application received shall be reviewed and
thereafter delivered by the city clerk to the police department. The police
department shall conduct a criminal background investigation of each applicant
for such license. In the event a national criminal background investigation is
required, the applicant shall be responsible for all additional fees incurred
for such and, upon request, provide additional information required to complete
this process. All applicants are required to complete an informed consent
authorizing the disclosure of all criminal history record information. When
such investigation shall be completed, a recommendation shall be transmitted to
the council for its consideration. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-19-2006)
2-5B-3: LICENSE FEE AND BOND:
The license fee for a secondhand dealer is as established by the city's fee
schedule. The applicant shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum as
established by the city's fee schedule as a condition of being licensed as a
secondhand dealer under this article. (Ord. 125; amd. 1967 Code §52.01; Ord.
711, 5-5-1980; Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
ARTICLE C. PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
2-5C-1: Purpose
2-5C-2: Definitions
2-5C-3: Fixed Premises And License Required
2-5C-4: License And Renewal
2-5C-5: Bond
2-5C-6: License And Application Fee
2-5C-7: Investigation Fee
2-5C-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-5C-9: Acts Prohibited By Minors
2-5C-10: Billable Transaction Fees
2-5C-11: Records Required
2-5C-12: Daily Reports To Police
2-5C-13: Receipt Required
2-5C-14: Redemption Period
2-5C-15: Holding Period
2-5C-16: Articles Available For Inspection
2-5C-17: Police Order To Hold Property
2-5C-18: Label Required
2-5C-19: Prohibited Acts
2-5C-20: Penalty
2-5C-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that use of services provided by pawnbrokers provides an
opportunity for the commission of crimes and their concealment because these
businesses may provide the ability to receive and transfer property stolen by
others easily and quickly. The council also finds that consumer protection
regulation is warranted in transactions covered by this chapter. The council
further finds that these activities have outgrown the city's current ability to
effectively or efficiently identify criminal activity related to pawnshops. The
purpose of this article is to prevent these businesses from being used as
facilities for the commission of crimes and to assure that such businesses
comply with basic consumer protection standards, thereby protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city. To help the
police department better regulate current and future pawn businesses, decrease
and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the pawn industry, and
increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn industry through the
timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction information, this article
also implements and establishes the required use of an electronic record system
approved by the chief of police. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 4-
27-2020)
2-5C-2: DEFINITIONS:
BILLABLE TRANSACTION: Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker
except: Renewals, redemptions or extensions of existing pawns on items
previously reported and continuously in the licensee's possession.
LICENSEE: All pawnbrokers required to be licensed by this article.
PAWNBROKER: Any person who:
   A.   Loans money on deposit or pledge of personal property, or other
valuable thing;
   B.   Deals in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable thing,
on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated price; or
   C.   Loans money, secured by chattel mortgage on personal property, taking
possession of the property or any part thereof so mortgaged.
   D.   To the extent that a pawnbroker's business includes buying personal
property previously used, rented or leased, or selling it on consignment, the
provisions of this article shall be applicable.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership or association or any other legal entity,
or any agent or employee thereof.
REGULATED TRANSACTION: Includes all purchases, loans, pawns, trades or
consignments made by a pawnbroker.
REPORTABLE TRANSACTION: Includes every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in
which merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade,
or in which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point of sale software,
is reportable except:
   A.   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each item.
   B.   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by pawn
or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods have
expired. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-3: FIXED PREMISES AND LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in business as a pawnbroker unless said person has a
fixed premises where said business is conducted, either on a continuing basis
or from time to time, and unless said person has first obtained a license to
engage in that business at that premises. A separate license is required for
each place of business. The city may issue more than one license to a person if
the person complies with the requirements of this article. A license issued
under this article shall be prominently displayed at the licensed premises
during hours when such premises is open for business. If, during the effective
period of a license issued under this article, a licensee changes the location
of the licensed premises within the city, such licensee shall inform the city
auditor and the chief of police of such change of location and shall have the
new premises to be licensed noted on the license. There shall be no additional
fee charged for changing the location of the licensed premises. The operation
of a business as a pawnbroker without a license as required by this section
shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-4: LICENSE AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Any person desiring to obtain, renew or transfer a license required by
section
2-5C-3 of this article shall make and file an application for such license with
the city council. The application shall be made on a form approved by the chief
of police and made available through the office of the city clerk. In addition
to the information required on the application form, the city council, in its
discretion, may require such other information as it deems necessary in
determining whether a license should be issued to the applicant.
   B.   The holder of an existing license issued pursuant to the provisions of
this article who desires to renew said license for another license year, shall
not be required to make and file a new application under this section but shall
make and file a renewal application under the provisions of this section which
shall require the payment of the yearly license fee and shall include an
affidavit indicating the current name and address of the licensee, and if said
licensee is a corporation, the names and addresses of the resident manager, all
corporate officers, and all shareholders holding more than five percent (5%) of
the outstanding stock of the corporation, and such other information as the
city may require. The renewal application and affidavit shall be on a form to
be prescribed by the chief of police made available through the city clerk's
office.
   C.   The application for a new license or renewal of a license shall require
that the applicant agrees to provide the police department with the records
required by section
2-5C-11 of this article in a format, including electronically transmitted
digital data, as required by the police department.
   D.   The chief of police shall investigate the facts stated in the
application filed with the city council and shall report the results of the
investigation to the city council prior to the hearing on said application.
Said investigation and report shall include the character, reputation, fitness
of the applicant to hold a license, any other pertinent information and the
recommendation of the chief of police as to whether or not such license shall
be granted. In addition, the city council may request and consider such other
recommendations and reports of any other city officials. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-
2004)
2-5C-5: BOND:
Before a license will be issued or renewed, every applicant must submit a bond
as established by the city's fee schedule on the forms provided by the city
clerk's office, with sufficient sureties to be approved by the city clerk's
office. All bonds must be conditioned that the principal will observe all laws
in relation to pawnbrokers and will conduct business in conformity thereto, and
that the principal will account for and deliver to any person legally entitled
any goods which have come into the principal's hand through the principal's
business under this article, or in lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value
in money to the person. The bond shall contain a provision that no bond may be
canceled except upon thirty (30) days' written notice of the chief of police.
(Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
2008)
2-5C-6: LICENSE AND APPLICATION FEE:
The fee for issuance of a license to engage in business as a pawnbroker shall
be as established by the city's fee schedule. A renewal for an existing license
shall be as established by the city's fee schedule. Both the application fee
and the renewal fee will be reviewed by the city council on a yearly basis.
(Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
2008)
2-5C-7: INVESTIGATION FEE:
The fee for investigation of a licensee to engage in business as a pawnbroker
shall be as established by the city's fee schedule. A renewal for an existing
license shall be as established by the city's fee schedule. Both the
application fee and the renewal fee will be reviewed by the city council on a
yearly basis.
In addition to fees established by the city's fee schedule, the licensee shall
reimburse the city for all actual expenses for required travel and related
costs associated with any out of state investigation. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004;
amd. Ord. 2020-04, 4-27-2020)
2-5C-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A license issued under this article shall be valid and effective until December
31 of the year for which the license applies. Every license issued under the
provisions of this article shall be issued upon the understanding that such
license may be revoked or suspended by the city council at any time for good
cause, for failure to comply with any provision of this article, or by any
fraud, misrepresentation, bribery, or false statements in application,
investigation, securing or renewing a license, or the conviction of a license
holder of a violation of this article or any criminal conviction related to
theft of property or violation of state banking laws or regulations or any
felony conviction. Notice of such revocation or suspension must be sent to the
licensee by certified mail addressed to the licensee at the address set forth
in the application. The chief of police shall be notified of the revocation or
suspension of any license. The licensee may appeal a revocation or suspension
to the city council and request a public hearing on such revocation or
suspension. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-9: ACTS PROHIBITED BY MINORS:
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall pawn, sell, or otherwise
initiate a regulated transaction with any person licensed to do business under
this article nor may any licensee receive any goods from a person under the age
of eighteen (18) years. No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
represent to any person licensed under the provisions of this article, that he
is eighteen (18) years of age or over. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-10: BILLABLE TRANSACTION FEES:
The billable transaction fee shall reflect the cost of processing transactions
and other related regulatory expenses as determined by the city council, and
shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, every six (6) months.
   A.   Licensees shall be notified in writing thirty (30) days before any
adjustment is implemented.
   B.   Transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and payable within
thirty (30) days. Failure to do so is a violation of this article.
Licensees may collect the billable transaction fee from the customer. (Ord.
2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-11: RECORDS REQUIRED:
At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals, extensions or
redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English the following
information by electronic record approved by the chief of police. In the event
that electronic records are temporarily unavailable, records shall be made
using ink or other indelible medium on forms provided by the licensee.
Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that prevented the
licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon correction of the
problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable transaction from every
business day the problem has existed. Such record shall specifically include:
   A.   Description Of Items: A complete and accurate description of each item
including, but not limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial
number, model number, brand name or other identifying mark on such an item.
   B.   Amount Advanced Or Paid: The purchase price, amount of money loaned
upon, or pledged.
   C.   Transaction Requirements: The maturity date of the transaction and the
amount due, including monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and
charges.
   D.   Transaction Identifier: Date, time and place the item of property was
received by the licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction
identifier that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee's
records.
   E.   Description Of Pledger Or Seller: Full name, current residence address
and phone number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from
whom the item of the property was received including sex, height, weight, race,
color of eyes and color of hair.
   F.   Identification Card: The identification number and state of issue of a
current valid state of Minnesota driver's license or identification card or
current valid photo driver's license or identification card from another state
or province in Canada.
   G.   Signature Required: The signature of the person identified in the
transaction.
   H.   Color Photograph: Effective sixty (60) days from the date of the
notification by the chief of police of acceptable video standards, the licensee
must also take a color photograph or color video recording of:
      1.   Each customer involved in a billable transaction.
      2.   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
      Digital photographs must be of sufficient quality to easily read any
serial or identification numbers. The photographs must also accurately
represent each item with a clear image and sufficient lighting. The major
portion of the photograph must include an identifiable front facial close up of
the person who pawned or sold the item. Photographs must be maintained in such
a manner that the photograph can be easily matched and correlated with all
other records of the transaction to which they relate. Such photographs must be
available to any officer upon request. The licensee must inform the person that
he or she is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a
conspicuous place in the premises. If a video is taken, the video camera must
zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include an
identifiable close up of that person's face. Video must be electronically
referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with
all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee must
inform the person that he or she is being video recorded by displaying a sign
of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must
keep video recordings for at least ninety (90) days. Such video recordings must
be available to any officer upon request.
   I.   Digitized Photographs: Licensees must fulfill the color photograph
requirements in subsection H of this section by submitting them as digital
images, in a format compatible with the electronic reporting system,
electronically cross referenced to the reportable transaction they are
associated with. Notwithstanding the digital images may be captured from
required video recordings, this provision does not alter or amend the
requirements in subsection H of this section.
   J.   Renewals, Extensions And Redemptions: For renewals, extensions and
redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction identified,
the date of the current transaction, and the type of the transaction.
   K.   Inspection Of Records: The records must at all reasonable times be open
to inspection by the police department or department of licenses and consumer
services. Data entries shall be retained for at least three (3) years from the
date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be retained a
minimum of ninety (90) days. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 4-27-
2020)
2-5C-12: DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE:
Effective no later than sixty (60) days after the police department provides
licensees with computerized record standards, licensees must submit every
reportable transaction to the police department daily in the following manner:
Licensees must provide to the police department all information required in
subsections
2-5C-11A through F of this article and other required information, by
transferring it from their computer to the electronic record system approved by
the chief of police. All required records must be transmitted completely and
accurately after the close of business each day in accordance with standards
and procedures established using procedures that address security concerns of
the licensee and the issuing authority. If a licensee is unable to successfully
transfer the required reports, the licensee must provide the police department
printed copies of all reportable transactions, by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
the next business day. If the problem is determined to be in the licensee's
system and is not corrected by the close of the first business day following
the failure, the licensee must provide the required reports as detailed, and
must be charged a fifty dollar ($50.00) reporting failure penalty, daily, until
the error is corrected.
Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that prevented the
licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon correction of the
problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable transaction from every
business day the problem has existed. The police department may, upon
presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay the implementation of the
daily reporting penalty. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 4-27-2020)
2-5C-13: RECEIPT REQUIRED:
Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
(3) years. The receipt must include at least the following information:
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the licensed business.
   B.   The date and time the item was received by the licensee.
   C.   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the transaction.
   D.   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
   E.   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction.
   F.   The amount advanced or paid.
   G.   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges.
   H.   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed by
the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount necessary
to redeem the pawned item on that date.
   I.   The full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, and date of birth of the pledger or seller.
   J.   The identification number and state of issue of a current valid
Minnesota state driver's license or identification card or current valid photo
driver's license or identification card from another state or province in
Canada.
   K.   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex, height,
weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair.
   L.   The signature of the pledger or seller. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-14: REDEMPTION PERIOD:
Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must have a
minimum of sixty (60) days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item
before it may be forfeited or sold. During the sixty (60) day period, items may
not be removed from the licensed location. Licensees are prohibited from
redeeming any item to anyone other than the person whom the receipt was issued
or, to any person identified in a written and notarized authorization to redeem
the property identified in the receipt, or to a person identified in writing by
the pledger at the time of the initial transaction and signed by the pledger,
or with the approval of the police license inspector. Written authorization for
release of property to persons other than original pledger must be maintained
along with the original transaction record. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-15: HOLDING PERIOD:
Any item purchased by a licensee must not be sold or otherwise transferred for
thirty (30) days from the date of the transaction. An individual may redeem an
item seventy two (72) hours after the item was received on deposit, excluding
Sundays and legal holidays. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-16: ARTICLES AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
All personal property, other valuable things, precious metals or precious gems
purchased or received by a pawnbroker in a regulated transaction shall be made
available for inspection by city police officers during reasonable business
hours during the holding period or until the pawnbroker disposes of same. (Ord.
2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-17: POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY:
   A.   Investigative Hold: Whenever a law enforcement official from any agency
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing by the
originating agency within seventy two (72) hours and will remain in effect for
fifteen (15) days from the date of initial notification, or until the
investigative order is canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is
issued, pursuant to subsection B of this section, whichever comes first.
   B.   Order To Hold: Whenever the chief of police, or the chief's designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the chief or the
chief's designee. The order to hold shall expire ninety (90) days from the date
it is placed unless the chief of police or the chief's designee determines the
hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   C.   Order To Confiscate: If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in
a criminal case, the chief or chief's designee may:
      1.   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to a
written order from the chief or the chief's designee,
      2.   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in subsection
B of this section and leave it in the shop.
When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide identification
upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the name and phone
number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case number related
to the confiscation.
When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the chief of police,
or chief's designee shall so notify the licensee. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-18: LABEL REQUIRED:
Licensee must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned, purchased
or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently recorded
on this label must be the number or name that identifies the transaction in the
shop's records, the transaction date, the name of the item, and the description
or the model and serial number of the item as reported to the police
department, whichever is applicable, and the date the item is out of pawn or
can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be reused. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-
2004)
2-5C-19: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No licensee may receive any goods from an intoxicated person.
   B.   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver's license, a valid state of
Minnesota identification card, or current valid photo driver's license or
identification card issued by the state or providence of residency of the
person from whom the item was received.
   C.   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or an item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   D.   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell,
consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with permission or
without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property in which another has a security interest; with any
licensee.
   E.   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious name;
nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address of
residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered identification,
or the identification of another; to any licensee. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
2-5C-20: PENALTY:
Violations of this article shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2004-8, 4-19-2004)
ARTICLE D. USED CAR DEALERS
SECTION:
2-5D-1: Definitions
2-5D-2: License Required
2-5D-3: Application For License
2-5D-4: License Fee And Term
2-5D-5: Conditions Of License
2-5D-6: Penalty
2-5D-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this article shall mean:
USED CAR DEALER: Any person engaged in managing or owning a business in which
the buying and/or selling of used motor vehicles takes place.
USED MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or motor vehicle trailer which has had
the title transferred from the person who first took title to it from the
manufacturer, importer or agent of the manufacturer or importer. (Ord. 306;
amd. 1967 Code §52.02)
2-5D-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of used car dealer without a license
therefor. (Ord. 306; amd. 1967 Code §52.02)
2-5D-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for a license under this article shall be in writing to the
council and signed and verified by the applicant on forms to be provided by the
city clerk. Such application shall state:
   A.   Applicant's Name: The name of the applicants and all persons associated
with them in the business or having an interest therein.
   B.   Proposed Business Address: The place where such business is to be
conducted.
   C.   Current Business Address: The present place of business of the
applicant.
   D.   Applicant's History: The place of residence of and business engaged in
by the applicant for the last five (5) years.
   E.   Favorable Recommendations: The names of two (2) or more responsible
persons who are residents of Minnesota, having knowledge of the applicant's
business and whereabouts during said five (5) years and whose favorable
recommendations as to the integrity and business ability of the applicant shall
accompany said application.
   F.   Criminal History: Whether or not the applicant has, or any person
associated with them or having any interest in the business has, been convicted
of a felony or gross misdemeanor and, if so, for what crime, the date of
conviction, and the court wherein convicted. This condition shall not be
required upon application for a renewal of the license.
   G.   Proof Of License: Proof, satisfactory to the city, that the applicant
is the possessor of a license from the state of Minnesota to deal in the sale
of used motor vehicles.
   H.   Proof Of Insurance: Proof, satisfactory to the city, that the applicant
has public liability insurance with coverage of six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000.00) for any one individual and up to six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000.00) for one occurrence, and property damage insurance to the amount
of sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00). (Ord. 2006-12, 6-19-2006)
   I.   Application Fee For Investigation: All applications shall be
accompanied by a check in the sum as established by the city's fee schedule to
cover the city's cost of investigation as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2006-12,
6-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   J.   Investigation: Each new application received shall be reviewed and
thereafter delivered by the city clerk to the police department. The police
department shall conduct a criminal background investigation of each applicant
for such license. In the event a national criminal background investigation is
required, the applicant shall be responsible for all additional fees incurred
for such and, upon request, provide additional information required to complete
this process. All applicants are required to complete an informed consent
authorizing the disclosure of all criminal history record information. When
such investigation shall be completed, a recommendation shall be transmitted to
the council for its consideration.
   K.   Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: The council may deny, suspend or
revoke any license to engage in the business of "used car dealer" as defined in
this article in accordance with the provisions of subsection 2-1-10B of this
title. (Ord. 2006-12, 6-19-2006)
2-5D-4: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
   A.   The annual fee for such license is as established by the city's fee
schedule except for those dealers possessing a franchise from a manufacturer or
importer for the sale of new automobiles and also having garage facilities and
an adequate stock of new parts on hand for the repair of such automobiles, the
license fee shall be as established by the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 306; amd.
1967 Code §52.02; Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   B.   The license issued to any applicant shall expire on December 31 of each
year, and if the license is issued for a time less than one year, the license
fee shall be prorated on a monthly basis. (Ord. 306; amd. 1967 Code §52.02)
2-5D-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Advertising: No licensee shall use advertising of any nature which is
not accurate in all of its material particulars, or which misrepresents
merchandise (including its age, use, quality, origin, or credit terms or
values), and no licensee shall use advertising or selling methods which tend to
or actually deceives or misleads the public.
   B.   Record Of Sales: Each licensee shall keep and preserve a book in which
there shall be made a record of each sale or exchange of a used motor vehicle,
such record to include the name, place or residence with street and number, to
whom such vehicle is delivered, the date delivered, and a description of the
vehicle including its license, motor and serial numbers, and make and model of
such vehicle. This book shall be open during regular business hours to the
inspection of authorized city personnel. (Ord. 306; amd. 1967 Code §52.02)
2-5D-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE E. SALES OF EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
ARTICLE F. CANNABIS AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAIL BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
2-5F-1: Purpose And Authority
2-5F-2: Definitions
2-5F-3: Registration
2-5F-4: Registration Fee
2-5F-5: Restrictions
2-5F-6: Enforcement
2-5F-7: Sanctions For Violations
2-5F-8: Penalty
2-5F-9: Severability
2-5F-1:   PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this section is to implement the provisions of M.S. Chapter 342
by requiring registration and regulations of cannabis and lower-potency hemp
edible retail businesses in accordance with Minnesota law. The city recognizes
that the unregulated use of cannabis and lower-potency hemp products pose risks
to the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, particularly those under
the age of 21.
The City Council has the authority to adopt this ordinance pursuant to:
   A.   M.S. § 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of government
to adopt reasonable restrictions on the time, place, and manner of the
operation of a cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses
provided that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation
of cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
   B.   M.S. § 342.22, requires that cannabis retailers, medical cannabis
retailers, medical cannabis combination businesses, cannabis microbusinesses
with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis mezzobusinesses with a retail
operations endorsement, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers register with
the city before making retail sales to customers or patients, and the city is
authorized to perform compliance checks of every such registered cannabis.
(Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-2:   DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise noted in this section, the words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01 and the rules promulgated by the Office of Cannabis Management
pursuant shall have the same meanings in this city code.
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS: A business that is licensed or required to be
licensed by the State of Minnesota as a cannabis retailer, cannabis
mezzobusiness with retail operations endorsement, cannabis microbusiness with
retail operations endorsement, or medical cannabis combination business
operating a retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
CANNABIS RETAILER: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis or lower-potency hemp products to a
consumer and not for the purpose of resale in any form.
COMPLIANCE CHECK: The system used by the city to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell products subject to licensing and registration are
following and complying with the requirements of this Article and state law.
Compliance checks involve the use of persons under the age of 21 who purchase
or attempt to purchase such products.
ISSUING AUTHORITY: City of Moorhead.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE: As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER: A hemp business, as defined by M.S. §
342.01, subd. 34, that holds a valid lower-potency hemp edible retail license.
OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT: Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management, herein
referred to as “OCM”.
PERSON OR REGISTRANT: One or more natural persons; a partnership, including a
limited partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic or nonprofit
corporation; a trust or any other business organization.
RETAIL REGISTRATION: An approved registration issued by the issuing authority
to a state-licensed cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business.
RETAIL SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration for cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible products.
SELF-SERVICE OR AUTOMATED SALE: Any sale, including online sales, of a cannabis
or lower-potency hemp product that is accessible to the public without the
personal assistance of an employee of the licensed establishment.
STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible retail
businesses. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-3:   REGISTRATION:
No person shall operate a cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business
or may make any sale, without first being registered by the issuing authority
pursuant to M.S. § 342.22.
   A.   Application submittal. Registration shall be made by fully completing
and submitting to the issuing authority the registration form provided by the
city. The registration form shall contain the following information:
      1.   Full name and date of birth of the registrant.
      2.   Mailing address, email address, and phone number for the registrant.
      3.   Legal name of the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail
business to be registered.
      4.   A copy of the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business’
current license or license preapproval issued by OCM .
      5.   The address, full name of the property owner, and parcel ID of the
property on which the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business is
to operate.
      6.   Signature of the registrant or the authorized agent of the legal
entity registrant.
         a.   If the registrant is a legal entity, the following information
shall be provided for the person designated as the general or primary manager
on site: the full name, date of birth, mailing address, contact phone number,
email address; and
      7.   Any additional information the city deems necessary.
   B.   Application approval. The registration shall not be approved or renewed
if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of this section. A retail
registration will be approved and in effect and only so long as the following
requirements are met:
      1.   The registrant holds a valid license or license preapproval issued
by OCM to the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business.
      2.   The registrant paid the total sum of the initial registration fee
and first year renewal fee as required in
2-5F-4  of this City Code and in the amounts set forth in the Annual Fee
Schedule of the Appendix of the Moorhead Municipal Code;
      3.   The property where the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail
business is located is current on all property taxes and assessments; and
      4.   If the registration form is incomplete, the retail registration
shall be not issued and the issuing authority will provide the applicant notice
of the deficiencies.
      5.   Prior to issuance of a retail registration, the issuing authority
and any other required or assigned city staff shall conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure that the cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible
retail business is compliant with the zoning code, building code, and
performance standards for cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail
businesses established in this section and elsewhere in this city code.
Pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state
license application from OCM, the issuing authority shall certify whether the
registrant complies with city code.
   C.   Renewal of registration. A retail registration shall be renewed when
OCM renews the license of the business, provided that the cannabis or lower-
potency hemp edible retail business submits to the city a renewal registration
form provided by the city, the information and documentation required by this
section (same as new application), and payment of the applicable renewal
cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business registration fee
established in Annual Fee Schedule of the Appendix of the Moorhead Municipal
Code.
   D.   Change in location. If a state-licensed cannabis or lower-potency hemp
edible retail business seeks to move to a new location within the city, it
shall submit a new application for retail registration for the new location
prior to the relocation. No additional registration fee or renewal fee shall be
required for a change in location.
   E.   Registration is non-transferable. A retail registration issued under
this section shall not be transferred to another person or to a different
cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail business.
   F.   Display of license and registration. Licenses issued by the OCM and
retail registrations issued by the city shall be displayed in plain view for
the public in the licensed premises. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-4:   REGISTRATION FEE:
No retail registration shall be approved or renewed under this section until
the applicable registration or renewal fee is paid in full. Fees shall be non-
refundable upon payment and submission of a complete application for
registration or renewal. Registration and renewal fees shall be as set forth in
Annual Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code. The initial and renewal registration
fees shall be the maximum allowable as provided by M.S. § 342.22 and all fees
in all other respects shall comply with the requirements of state law. The
initial registration fee shall include the fee for the initial registration and
the first annual renewal. Any renewal fee imposed thereafter shall be charged
at the time of the second renewal, as established in Annual Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-5:   RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Hours of operation. As provided by M.S. § 342.27:
      1.   Licensed cannabis retail sales are limited to 10:00 a.m. - 10:00
p.m. Monday to Sunday.
      2.   Licensed lower-potency hemp edible retail sales are limited to 8:00
a.m. - 2:00 a.m. Monday to Saturday and 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 a.m. Sunday.
   B.   Age verification. No cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products shall be sold to any person
under 21 years of age. Registrants shall verify by means of government issued
photographic identification, as required by M.S. § 342.27, subd. 4, that a
purchaser is at least 21 years of age. Registrants shall post signage advising
of the minimum legal age for purchases. Notice of the legal sale age and
verification requirement shall be posted prominently and in plain view.
   C.   Mobile sales and delivery. All retail sales of cannabis and lower-
potency hemp products must be conducted within a building and within the
licensed and registered premises. A licensed or registered cannabis retail
business must hold a cannabis delivery service license under M.S. § 342.41
prior to conducting cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible delivery services in
the city.
   D.   Zoning. The registered business shall comply with all provisions of
this chapter and with zoning regulations in Title 10 of this City Code. The
registered business shall comply with all Minnesota laws and licensing
conditions regulating cannabis and lower-potency edible hemp retail businesses.
   E.   Display and storage. The display and storage of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edible products shall be in accordance
with M.S. § 342.27.
   F.   Self-service or automated sale. No person shall provide any cannabis or
lower-potency hemp edible product to any person by means of self-service or
automated sale. All retail sales shall be done with the assistance of an
employee.
   G.   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edible product free of charge or at a nominal cost. (Ord.
2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-6:   ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The City Clerk, in coordination with the Moorhead Police Department, is
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this Article. Violations
of this ordinance can occur regardless of whether or not a registration is
required for a regulated activity listed in this Article.
   B.   Age verification compliance checks. All cannabis and lower-potency hemp
edible retail businesses licensed by OCM and registered by the city shall be
open to inspection by the city during regular business hours of the business.
From time to time, but no less than once per calendar year, the city will
conduct unannounced age verification compliance checks to ensure compliance
with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 342 and this article. All age verification
compliance check failures will be reported to OCM. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-7:   SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Suspension of registration. A suspension of a retail registration
issued under this Article shall take place in accordance with M.S. § 342.22.
The issuing authority may suspend a retail registration if it violates this
Article or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The
issuing authority shall immediately notify the cannabis or lower-potency hemp
edible retail business in writing of the grounds for the suspension.
      1.   Public hearing. Prior to suspension of a retail registration, the
issuing authority shall provide written notice to the registrant and a public
hearing before the City Council. The notice shall give at least ten calendar
days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the registrant.
      2.   Reinstatement. The issuing authority may reinstate a retail
registration if OCM determines the violation(s) have been resolved or if OCM
revokes or suspends the state-license for a period less than the suspension
issued by the City Council.
   B.   Notification to OCM. The issuing authority shall immediately notify the
OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension.
   C.   Civil penalties. Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5(e) the city may
impose a civil penalty for a violation of this Article, not to exceed $2,000
for each occurrence.
      1.   Any state-licensed cannabis or lower-potency hemp edible retail
business that sells to a customer or patient without valid retail registration
shall incur a civil penalty of $2,000 for each violation.
      2.   For a first violation, other than sale without a retail
registration, the fine as set forth in Annual Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code.
      3.   For a second violation, other than sale without a retail
registration, at the same location within five years of the first violation,
the fine set forth in Annual Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code.
      4.   For a third violation, other than sale without a retail
registration, at the same location within five years of the first violation,
the City Council shall suspend the retail registration after a public hearing
for a minimum of seven calendar days and impose a civil penalty set forth in
Annual Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code; and
      5.   For a fourth or subsequent violations at the same location within
five years of the first violation, the City Council shall suspend a retail
registration after a public hearing for 30 calendar days unless OCM suspends
the license for a longer period, impose a civil penalty as set forth in Annual
Fee Schedule of the
Appendix  of the Moorhead Municipal Code for each additional violation, or
impose any combination of these sanctions. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-8:   PENALTY:
Any violation of the provisions of this Article or failure to comply with any
of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by
law. Nothing in this Article shall be construed to limit the city’s other
available remedies for any violation of law, including without limitation,
criminal, civil, and injunctive relief. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
2-5F-9:   SEVERABILITY:
If any part, term, or provision of this Article is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, preempted by state law, or unconstitutional, such
portion shall be deemed severable and such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this article, which
remaining portions shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 2025-05, 4-
28-2025)
CHAPTER 6
SERVICE BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A. TAXICABS/LIMOUSINES
SECTION:
2-6A-1: License Required, Application
2-6A-2: License Fees
2-6A-3: Insurance Required
2-6A-4: Vehicle Restrictions
2-6A-5: Taxicab/Limousine Rates
2-6A-6: Stands
2-6A-7: Lost Articles
2-6A-8: Taxicab/Limousine Drivers
2-6A-8-1: Driver Identification Card
2-6A-9: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-6A-10: Smoking
2-6A-11: Driver Impairment
2-6A-12: Certificate Of Inspection
2-6A-13: Occupants Allowed In Vehicle
2-6A-14: Right To Appeal
2-6A-15: Penalty
2-6A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, APPLICATION:
   A.   License Required: No person or company shall operate a taxicab business
or limousine service without a taxicab/limousine license. Taxicab/limousine
licenses will be issued to the person or company operating a taxicab business
or limousine service, rather than to individual taxicab or limousine drivers.
Accordingly, any person or company to whom a taxicab/limousine license is
issued shall be responsible for conducting background checks of the drivers in
their employ and taking all steps necessary to ensure compliance with this
article.
   B.   Sober Ride Services: The provisions of this article shall apply to any
taxicab or limousine service offering "sober ride" services whereby one
taxicab/limousine driver drives the patron home and a second taxicab/limousine
driver drives the patron's vehicle home. For such services, both taxicab/
limousine drivers must meet all the requirements of this article, including any
requirements related to licensing, insurance, and background checks.
   C.   Application: Any person or company who desires to operate a taxicab
business or limousine service may make application in writing to the city clerk
for a taxicab/limousine license, which application shall include the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is not an
individual person, the application shall state the names and addresses of all
individuals owning an interest in such business, and if a corporation shall
give the names and addresses of the officers and directors thereof.
      2.   The make, model and ownership information of all of the vehicles the
applicant intends to use in operating the taxicab or limousine service,
including the name of the manufacturer, the motor and serial number, the body
type, the year when made, the number of passengers each vehicle will
accommodate, and certification that each vehicle has been inspected by a
certified mechanic and passed inspection as provided in section
2-6A-12 of this article.
      3.   An accurate and detailed description of the color scheme of the
taxicabs or limousines, including inscriptions or monograms thereon, proposed
to be operated by the applicant, which shall be distinctly different from that
of the taxicabs or limousines of any other operators within the city, so that
ownership and identity may be readily ascertained by the police department and
patrons of any taxicab or limousine.
      4.   A certificate of insurance showing the applicant has sufficient
insurance to meet the requirements of section
2-6A-3 of this article.
      5.   A schedule of proposed rates to be charged by the applicant during
the license period for which the application is made, as required by section
2-6A-5 of this article.
      6.   Documentation showing that every taxicab or limousine driver
currently in the applicant's employ has been subject to a background check and
meets the requirements set forth in section
2-6A-8 of this article.
   D.   Expiration: All taxicab/limousine licenses issued by the city of
Moorhead, unless sooner revoked by the city of Moorhead, will expire on
December 31 of each year. All licenses that are allowed to expire will be
subject to cancellation within five (5) days after expiration. If the licensee
applies for a renewal following the expiration of a license, a late fee, as
established by resolution of the city council, shall be applied. (Ord. 2015-16,
6-22-2015)
2-6A-2: LICENSE FEES:
If the application is granted, the applicant shall pay to the city clerk the
sum as established by the city's fee schedule as a license fee. Any license
issued under the provisions of this article shall be for a term in accordance
with section
2-1-6 of this title. No license shall be transferred unless application is made
to and approved by the city clerk. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Before a taxicab/limousine license is issued by the clerk, and at all times
effective during such licensed period, the licensee shall have and maintain
public liability and bodily injury insurance in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one person and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for two (2) or more persons injured in any one accident,
as well as fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage insurance. Such
insurance shall cover all passengers carried by the insured licensee and shall
be for public taxicab purposes. All such policies shall contain a clause
providing for ten (10) days' written notice to the city clerk before
cancellation, and a memorandum of such insurance shall be furnished to the city
before a license is issued. The city clerk may impose an administrative fee for
any temporary lapse in insurance that requires a subsequent reinstatement.
Failure to maintain insurance as provided in this section is grounds for
revocation of a transportation network company license. (Ord. 2015-16, 6-22-
2015)
2-6A-4: VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Number Of Vehicles: The city clerk, in granting a taxicab/limousine
license, shall have the power to limit the number of vehicles to be operated
under any such license; and, in his/her discretion from time to time, to
increase or decrease the number of vehicles which any licensee may be permitted
to operate. No person shall be granted more than one license for the operation
of a taxicab business or limousine service.
   B.   Condition Of Vehicles: Every holder of a license under this article
shall keep such vehicles in good serviceable condition so that each vehicle may
be safely operated at all times without endangering the safety or property of
the passengers carried or other persons. The licensee shall from time to time
have the vehicles inspected by a competent and experienced mechanic and shall
produce a record of such inspection to authorized city personnel during regular
business hours. The license for the operation of any vehicle not kept in a safe
and serviceable condition may, upon ten (10) days' mailed notice, in the
discretion of the council, be revoked.
   C.   Vehicle Fees: The city clerk may impose an administrative fee for each
vehicle registered under a taxicab/limousine license, as set forth on the
city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2015-16, 6-22-2015)
2-6A-5: TAXICAB/LIMOUSINE RATES:
Each applicant for a taxicab/limousine license shall file with the city clerk,
before such a license is issued or renewed, a schedule of proposed rates to be
charged by the applicant during the license period for which the application is
made. The schedule of proposed rates, or a compromise schedule thereof, shall
be approved by the city clerk before granting the license. Such schedule shall
be posted in a conspicuous place in the taxicab or limousine in full view of
passengers riding therein. Nothing in this section shall prevent a taxicab/
limousine licensee from petitioning the city clerk for a review of such rates
during the license period, and the city clerk may likewise consider such
petition and make new rates effective at any time. No taxicab/limousine
licensee shall charge rates varying from those approved by the city clerk.
(Ord. 2015-11, 5-11-2015)
2-6A-6: STANDS:
Drivers employed by a holder of a taxicab/limousine license may stand while
waiting for employment at such places as the council may from time to time
specify. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-7: LOST ARTICLES:
Whenever any package, money, articles of baggage or goods of any description
are left in or on any taxicab or limousine, or when any package or article is
left in the custody of the driver of any such vehicle, such driver shall, upon
the discovery of such package or article, deliver it at the police station into
the hands of the officer in charge of the station, unless the package or
article shall be sooner delivered to the owner or to the order of such owner.
(Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-8: TAXICAB/LIMOUSINE DRIVERS:
   A.   License Required, Fees: No person shall drive, operate, use or cause to
be used upon the streets of the city a taxicab or limousine unless the person
driving the vehicle is properly licensed in accordance with Minnesota law and
employed by a holder of a city of Moorhead taxicab/limousine license.
   B.   Hours Of Drivers: No driver shall be permitted to drive any vehicle
carrying passengers for more than twelve (12) hours in any one 24-hour period.
   C.   Background Checks: Every holder of a taxicab/limousine license must
conduct a criminal and civil background check on each and every applicant for
taxicab or limousine driver and on an annual basis, but not later than the
anniversary date of employment, on each and every taxicab or limousine driver
in their employ. All background checks must at a minimum provide information
and data regarding all criteria set forth in subsection D of this section to
the holder of a taxicab/limousine license.
   D.   Driver Standards: Every holder of a taxicab/limousine license must, on
a yearly basis, verify that each and every taxicab or limousine driver in their
employ meets the following minimum standards:
      1.   Is a citizen of the United States or an alien admitted for permanent
residence, or who has otherwise obtained work authorization from the U.S.
citizenship and immigration services;
      2.   Is the holder of a valid driver's license authorizing operation of
the licensed vehicle;
      3.   Is able to read and speak the English language sufficiently to
converse with the general public, to understand highway traffic signs and
signals in the English language, to respond to official inquiries, and to make
entries on reports and records;
      4.   Is eighteen (18) years of age or older;
      5.   Has obtained and provided a doctor's certificate, effective for
three (3) years, indicating the applicant is free from any infirmity, physical
or mental, which would render the applicant unfit for the safe operation of the
licensed vehicle;
      6.   Has a driving record, at least for the past three (3) years, clear
of:
         a.   A license cancellation under Minnesota statutes section 171.14, a
revocation under Minnesota statutes sections 169A.52 and 171.17, or a
suspension under Minnesota statutes section 171.18;
         b.   A conviction for operating a motor vehicle without insurance
under Minnesota statutes section 169.797;
         c.   A conviction for driving a motor vehicle without a valid license
for the class of vehicle driven under Minnesota statutes section 171.02;
         d.   A conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance under Minnesota statutes section 169A.20, or an ordinance
that conforms to that section;
         e.   A conviction for alcohol related driving by a commercial vehicle
driver under Minnesota statutes section 169A.20, subdivision 1, clause (6);
         f.   A conviction for leaving the scene of an accident under Minnesota
statutes section 609.2112 or 169.09; and
         g.   A conviction for reckless or careless driving under Minnesota
statutes 169.13.
      7.   Has a criminal record clear of any misdemeanor or felony conviction:
         a.   As a habitual offender for driving under the influence of alcohol
or a controlled substance under Minnesota statutes section 169A.24 or 169A.25;
and
         b.   Of a crime or anticipatory crime against persons, or a crime or
anticipatory crime. The following offenses are crimes against persons and are
listed with the section, subdivision, or chapter number showing where the
offense is found in Minnesota statutes, as they may be amended from time to
time:
            (1)   Attempts, 609.17;
            (2)   Conspiracy, 609.175;
            (3)   Murder in the first degree, 609.185;
            (4)   Murder in the second degree, 609.19;
            (5)   Murder in the third degree, 609.195;
            (6)   Manslaughter in the first degree, 609.20;
            (7)   Manslaughter in the second degree, 609.205;
            (8)   Criminal vehicular homicide and injury, 609.2111 to 609.2114;
            (9)   Assault in the first degree, 609.221;
            (10)   Assault in the second degree, 609.222;
            (11)   Assault in the third degree, 609.223;
            (12)   Assault in the fourth degree, 609.2231;
            (13)   Great bodily harm caused by distribution of drugs, 609.228;
            (14)   Use of drugs to injure or facilitate crime, 609.235;
            (15)   Simple robbery, 609.24;
            (16)   Aggravated robbery, 609.245;
            (17)   Kidnapping, 609.25;
            (18)   False imprisonment, 609.255;
            (19)   Abduction, 609.265;
            (20)   Criminal sexual conduct in the first degree, 609.342;
            (21)   Criminal sexual conduct in the second degree, 609.343;
            (22)   Criminal sexual conduct in the third degree, 609.344;
            (23)   Criminal sexual conduct in the fourth degree, 609.345;
            (24)   Solicitation of children to engage in sexual conduct,
609.352;
            (25)   Fleeing a peace officer in a motor vehicle, 609.487;
            (26)   Misusing credit card to secure services, 609.545;
            (27)   Burglary, 609.582, subdivision 1; or
            (28)   Prohibited drugs; felony convictions, chapter 152; and
      8.   Is not a registered predatory offender in any state.
A city of Moorhead taxicab/limousine driver record form shall be used to
document the drivers' records. All taxicab/limousine driver record forms shall
be kept by the holder of a taxicab/limousine license for a minimum of five (5)
years and shall be available for review by the city of Moorhead immediately
upon request. The city of Moorhead shall have the right at any time and without
prior notice to perform inspections of the records of the holder of a taxicab/
limousine license to determine compliance with this section and to revoke a
taxicab/limousine license at any time for failure to comply with this section.
(Ord. 2015-16, 6-22-2015)
2-6A-8-1: DRIVER IDENTIFICATION CARD:
The licensee shall issue an identification card to each driver that the
licensee endorses. Such identification card shall have the first name of the
driver, a driver identification number, and a photograph attached to the
identification card. Any taxicab/limousine driver shall wear the identification
card at all times while operating a taxicab or limousine. Each driver
identification card must be filed with the city clerk before a driver may
operate under a taxicab/limousine license. (Ord. 2015-16, 6-22-2015)
2-6A-9: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The council may deny, suspend or revoke any license to operate a taxicab
business or limousine service as defined in this article in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 2-1-10A of this title. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-10: SMOKING:
In accordance with the Minnesota clean indoor air act 1 , as it may be amended
from time to time, smoking of tobacco products is prohibited inside any taxicab
or limousine. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA 144.414, subd. 1.
2-6A-11: DRIVER IMPAIRMENT:
No driver shall be permitted to operate a taxicab or limousine while under the
influence of alcohol or any mood altering drug (prescription or
nonprescription). No driver shall possess any controlled substance or alcoholic
beverage while operating a taxicab or limousine. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-12: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
No taxicab/limousine license shall be issued until the applicant files with the
city clerk certification that each vehicle licensed has been inspected by a
certified mechanic and has passed said inspection. An automotive service
excellence (ASE) certificate of inspection must be completed on a yearly basis
and submitted to the city clerk with the taxicab/limousine license renewal.
(Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-13: OCCUPANTS ALLOWED IN VEHICLE:
No person operating a taxicab or limousine shall allow a greater number of
passengers to occupy or be transported in the vehicle than the number of legal
seated/belted positions within said vehicle. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-14: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city clerk, pursuant to this article,
may appeal the decision of the city clerk to the city council by filing a
written appeal with the city clerk within thirty (30) days of an adverse
decision. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
2-6A-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2015-08, 3-23-2015)
ARTICLE B. BUSES
SECTION:
2-6B-1: Operation Of Buses
2-6B-2: Definition Of Metropolitan Bus Line
2-6B-1: OPERATION OF BUSES:
No person shall operate a metropolitan bus line in the city without approval of
the council. (Ord. 88-20, 1-23-1989)
2-6B-2: DEFINITION OF METROPOLITAN BUS LINE:
The definition of "metropolitan bus line" shall include public transportation
that is subject to the state of Minnesota's class A motor carrier operating
certificate and means transportation by bus, either publicly or privately
owned, which provides general or special transportation service (but not
including school buses, charter or sightseeing service) to the public on a
regular and continuing basis. (Ord. 88-20, 1-23-1989)
ARTICLE C. MASSAGE THERAPY
SECTION:
2-6C-1: Definitions
2-6C-2: Licenses Required
2-6C-2-1: Application For License
2-6C-3: Investigation Of License Applicants
2-6C-4: Approval, Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-6C-5: License Terms And Fees
2-6C-6: Conditions Of License
2-6C-7: Exemptions To License Provisions
2-6C-8: Insurance Required
2-6C-9: Violations And Penalties
2-6C-1: DEFINITIONS:
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, stimulating or rolling of the
body with the hands, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus,
or other appliances or devices, for a fee or for compensation, direct or
indirect.
MASSAGE ENTERPRISE: A business where the practice of massage is carried out by
licensed massage therapists to members of the public, but does not include the
giving of a massage to a person at that person's residence or place of business
by a licensed massage therapist.
MASSAGE HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation where the practice of massage is carried
out by a licensed massage therapist in a private home or residence.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual or a person over the age of eighteen (18) who
practices or administers "massage" as defined herein, and who has made a study
of the underlying principles of anatomy and physiology as they are generally
included in a regular course of study by a recognized and approved school of
massage. The individual shall have a diploma or credentials issued by a state
recognized school of massage or like institution demonstrating satisfactory
completion of not less than five hundred (500) hours of study; said course of
study shall be accredited or approved by the American Massage Therapy
Association (AMTA) or Associated Bodywork And Massage Professionals (ABMP) (or
similar organization meeting the standards equivalent to the AMTA or ABMP), or
in addition to the study requirement, the individual shall maintain a
professional class membership in the American Massage Therapy Association or
Associated Bodywork And Massage Professionals (or membership in an organization
similar to AMTA or ABMP), or, in addition to the study requirement, the
individual shall have passed the certification examination by the National
Certification Board For Therapeutic Massage And Bodywork.
PERSON: An individual, a partnership, or a corporation which may operate the
business of a massage enterprise or a massage home occupation, or an individual
who engages in the practice of massage. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a massage enterprise within the city without
first obtaining a license from the city and paying the fee therefor as
hereinafter established.
   B.   No person shall give a massage within the city without first obtaining
a license from the city and paying the fee therefor as hereinafter established.
   C.   No person shall operate a massage home occupation within the city
without first obtaining a license from the city and paying the fee therefor as
hereinafter established. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-2-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   A massage license application must be completed before a person may
obtain a massage enterprise license, massage therapist license, massage home
occupation license, or any other massage license authorized by this article.
Massage license application forms may be obtained from the city clerk and must
include, but are not limited to, the following pieces of information:
      1.   The name, address, birth date, and contact information of the
applicant and, where applicable, any on site managers designated pursuant to
subsection 2-6C-6A of this article.
      2.   Certification that the applicant and any on site managers live
within a one hundred (100) mile radius of the location of the massage
enterprise or the location where the massage will be performed, in accordance
with subsection 2-6C-6J of this article.
      3.   Evidence of the applicant's U.S. citizenship or resident alien
status.
      4.   A copy of the applicant's valid state or federal photo
identification.
      5.   A list of the applicant's previous places of employment for the past
five (5) years.
      6.   A list of the applicant's previous residences for the past five (5)
years.
      7.   An official transcript showing the applicant's receipt of a massage
therapy degree or similar professional certification, as required by this
article, sent directly from the issuer of the degree or certification to the
city clerk.
      8.   The hours of operation of the massage enterprise or massage home
occupation, or the hours within which the massage therapist will perform
massages, along with certification that these hours will not violate the
license terms set forth in subsection 2-6C-6K of this article.
   B.   All massage license applications must be signed by the applicant before
a notary and submitted in person to the city clerk, or his/her designee in the
manner described on the massage license application. Failure to provide any of
the information required by subsection A of this section, or any other
information required by the application, will result in an automatic denial of
the application. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-3: INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANTS:
The police department shall investigate all applications for a license to
operate a massage enterprise or massage home occupation, or to practice massage
within the city. The police shall conduct a criminal background check as part
of the investigation. In the event a national criminal background investigation
is required, the applicant shall be responsible for all additional fees
incurred for such and, upon request, provide additional information required to
complete this process. All applicants are required to complete an informed
consent authorizing the disclosure of all criminal history record information.
Upon completion of said investigation, the police department shall report to
the council in writing its findings and recommendations. The investigation
should determine if there are any grounds to deny a license as set forth in
subsection 2-6C-4B of this article. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-4: APPROVAL, DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
After the investigation required under section
2-6C-3 of this article, the council shall act and either approve or deny the
issuance of said license on the basis of said investigation and report and the
application submitted by the applicant.
   A.   Approval And Issuance: The city clerk shall be empowered upon council
approval to issue licenses to a person to engage in the practice of massage, or
to operate a massage enterprise or massage home occupation, upon application
being made therefor to the office of the city clerk; the licenses issued by the
city clerk shall be displayed in a prominent place within a licensed massage
enterprise or massage home occupation for each such person licensed to engage
in the practice of massage.
   B.   Deny License: No person shall be issued a license under the terms of
this article if the applicant:
      1.   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by Minnesota statutes section 364.03, subdivision 2
(including, but not limited to, Minnesota statutes sections 609.321 through
609.3451), and who has not shown competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties and responsibilities
of the licensee as prescribed by Minnesota statutes section 364.03, subdivision
3.
      3.   Is not a citizen of the United States or resident alien.
      4.   Has misrepresented or falsified information on a license application
or additional information requested by the city.
      5.   Cannot meet the definition of "massage therapist" in section
2-6C-1 of this article.
   C.   Suspend Or Revoke License: The council may suspend or revoke any
license to operate a massage enterprise or massage home occupation, or a
license to practice massage, as defined in this article in accordance with the
provisions of subsection 2-1-10A of this title. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-5: LICENSE TERMS AND FEES:
   A.   Massage Enterprise License: A license issued for the operation of a
massage enterprise shall be issued for a period of one year and expire on
December 31, and the applicant shall pay in advance the fee as established by
the city's fee schedule. Such license may thereafter be renewed annually by
resolution of the council upon payment in advance of an annual fee as
established by the city's fee schedule.
   B.   Massage Therapist License: A license issued to an individual to engage
in the practice of massage shall be issued for a period of one year and expire
on December 31, and the applicant shall pay in advance the fee as established
by the city's fee schedule. Such license may thereafter be renewed annually by
resolution of the council upon payment in advance of an annual fee.
   C.   Massage Home Occupation License: A license issued for the operation of
a massage home occupation shall be issued for a period of one year and expire
on December 31, and the applicant shall pay in advance the fee as established
by the city's fee schedule. Such license may thereafter be renewed annually by
resolution of the council upon payment in advance of an annual fee. (Ord. 2015-
07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Responsible Authority: If a licensee to operate a massage enterprise is
a person other than an individual engaged in the active day to day management
of the business, such licensee shall designate in writing to the city the name
of a manager who shall be actively engaged in the business.
   B.   Comply With Regulations: It shall be the responsibility of the persons
to whom the license to operate a massage enterprise is issued, and such
persons' designated managers, to carry out all of the terms and conditions of
this article; and any violations of this article, whether committed by the
persons holding the license, their manager or an employee of said massage
enterprise or massage home occupation, will be grounds for revocation or
nonrenewal of the license.
   C.   Record Of Employees Kept: It shall be the responsibility of the persons
holding the license and such persons' manager to file with the city the names
of each and every individual who will engage in the practice of massage at the
massage enterprise, their birth date, most previous address and current
address.
   D.   Employees Must Be Licensed: It shall be the responsibility of the
persons holding the license to operate a massage enterprise or massage home
occupation and their designated manager to make certain that any person
engaging in the practice of massage within such massage enterprise or massage
home occupation obtains a proper license as required under this article prior
to commencing employment and engaging in the practice of massage.
   E.   Location Restrictions, Transferability:
      1.   Massage Enterprises: The licenses issued by the city to operate a
massage enterprise shall be issued for and shall designate a specific location
within the city where the massage enterprise shall operate. Such license is
nontransferable both as to person and location without the approval of the
council.
      2.   Massage Therapists: The licenses issued by the city to a person to
engage in the practice of massage shall entitle the licensed massage therapist
to perform on site massage at a business, public gathering, private home, or
other site not on a massage enterprise premises. The massage therapist must
have a license in his/her possession if a massage is given off a licensed
massage enterprise. Records must be retained for one year for all massages
given off a licensed massage enterprise, and such records shall be made
available to the police department upon request.
      3.   Massage Home Occupations: The licenses issued by the city to operate
a massage home occupation shall designate the private home or residence where
the massage home occupation shall be conducted. Such license is nontransferable
both as to the person and location without the approval of the council.
   F.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   The person who is receiving a massage shall at all times have his or
her genitals covered with nontransparent material or clothing.
      2.   Any massage therapist performing a massage shall at all times have
his or her breasts, buttocks, anus and genitals covered with a nontransparent
material or clothing.
      3.   At no time shall the massage therapist intentionally massage or
offer to massage the penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area of the
person.
   G.   Doors To Be Open: No licensed massage enterprise shall have its entry
door locked at any time during normal business hours.
   H.   Premises Open For Inspection: Any persons holding a license from the
city to operate a massage enterprise or massage home occupation shall agree in
their application that their place of business or private home or residence
will be open to inspection by the city and any authorized city personnel,
including the fire, police, and health departments, upon presentment of proper
credentials without notice, at any time during normal business hours.
   I.   Sanitary Guidelines: The licensed premises must meet the sanitary
guidelines set by the city.
   J.   Residency Requirements: The applicant and, where applicable, any on
site managers designated pursuant to subsection A of this section shall live
within a one hundred (100) mile radius of the massage enterprise or location
where the massage will be performed.
   K.   Hours Of Operation: No massage enterprise or massage home occupation
shall operate outside of the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M., and no massage shall be performed outside of said hours of
operation. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
2-6C-7: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE PROVISIONS:
A massage enterprise, massage therapist, or massage home occupation license is
not required for the following persons and places:
   A.   Persons duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery,
nursing, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry, provided the
massage is administered in the regular course of the medical business and not
provided as part of a separate and distinct massage business.
   B.   Persons duly licensed by this state as beauty culturists or barbers,
provided such persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage treatments,
and provided the massage by beauty culturists is limited to the head, hands,
neck and feet, and the massage by barbers is limited to the head and neck.
   C.   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a person duly
licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic,
physical therapy or podiatry.
   D.   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home, hospice,
sanatorium, group home or similar licensed facility established for the
hospitalization or care of human beings.
   E.   A person who uses special pressure techniques on the reflexes in the
human feet, hands and ears, commonly referred to as reflexology, and limits
his/her practice to pressure techniques on the clients' feet, hands and ears.
   F.   Accredited schools through the ACICS, or similar organization, offering
classes on massage, provided all instructors obtain a massage therapist license
from the city.
   G.   Enrolled students in a program of massage offered by an accredited
school as long as the massages given by the students are a requirement of their
instructional program and no compensation is provided for the massage, or if a
massage is given as part of a required internship/externship and the massage is
given at an off site licensed facility, or a facility made exempt by this
section, and the student is supervised by a licensed massage therapist or other
qualified person exempt from the massage therapist license by this section.
(Ord. 2015-11, 5-11-2015)
2-6C-8: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
A massage therapist must provide city proof that the massage therapist has
current insurance coverage of six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000.00) or
more for professional liability in the practice of massage. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-
23-2015)
2-6C-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A conviction of any persons holding a license to operate a massage
enterprise or massage home occupation, their manager, any person holding a
license to practice massage or any employee of a licensed massage enterprise or
massage home occupation, for a violation of this article or any crime directly
related to the occupation licensed as prescribed by Minnesota statutes section
364.03, subdivision 2, including, but not limited to, Minnesota statutes
sections 609.321 through 609.3451, inclusive, as a result of conduct on the
licensed premises or off the premises if initial contact is made on the
premises, shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the license issued under
the terms and conditions of this article.
   B.   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2015-07, 3-23-2015)
ARTICLE D. LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINERS
SECTION:
2-6D-1: Definitions
2-6D-2: Existing Escort Services, Live Adult Entertainers, And Live Adult
Entertainment Businesses
2-6D-3: Escort Services, Live Adult Entertainers, And Live Adult Entertainment
Businesses; License Required
2-6D-4: License Term
2-6D-5: License Renewal
2-6D-6: Exception
2-6D-7: Application For Live Adult Entertainer License; Contents; Renewals;
Required Fees
2-6D-8: Investigation Of License Applicants
2-6D-9: Prohibited Activities Of Live Adult Entertainers
2-6D-10: Live Adult Entertainer Personal Identification Card
2-6D-11: Unlawful Acts
2-6D-12: Sale Or Transfer
2-6D-13: Violation; Penalty
2-6D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively prescribed to them by this section:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An enclosed building having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, or other periodicals that are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT CINEMA: An enclosed building used on a regular basis for presenting
pictorial materials or other visual images by way of direct or indirect
projection, which materials are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on the depiction of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas,
for observation by patrons therein in return for the payment of a
consideration, irrespective of the number of patrons who may be able to view
the presentation at one time.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS: Shall have the same meaning as set forth in section
10-23-2 of this code.
ESCORT SERVICES AND LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINER: Shall be used interchangeably and
shall mean any person who, for consideration paid by or for the person:
   A.   Dances, strips or otherwise performs where such performances are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis to arouse or excite the patrons'
sexual desires; or
   B.   Provides a service involving companionship or where the fee is based on
the amount of time in companionship; or
   C.   Provides a service for a fee involving specified sexual activities or
display of specified anatomical areas; or
   D.   Holds themselves out as an escort or adult entertainer by advertising
such services.
LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A corporate entity, business, sole
proprietorship, or any other type of business or person who provides escort
services or adult entertainer services, or who has employees that provide
escort services or adult entertainer services, or who receives any type of fee
or compensation for providing escort or adult entertainment at any location
within the city of Moorhead.
NUDE OR SEMINUDE: A state of dress displaying specified anatomical areas.
SADOMASOCHISTIC PRACTICES: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clothed
or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically
restrained on the part of one clothed or naked.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered: 1) human genitals, pubic
region, or pubic hair 2) buttock and 3) female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation or flagellation;
   C.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
female breast;
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities set
forth in subsections A through C of this definition. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-2: EXISTING ESCORT SERVICES, LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINERS, AND LIVE ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES:
The provisions of this article shall apply to any escort service, live adult
entertainer or live adult entertainment businesses in existence at the time
this article takes effect. All licenses required herein shall be applied for
within thirty (30) days from the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-
2013)
2-6D-3: ESCORT SERVICES, LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINERS, AND LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
BUSINESSES; LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, in or
upon any location, premises or real property located or situated within the
city, the activities of an escort service, live adult entertainer or live adult
entertainment business, unless there has been granted to such person, business
or individual a valid license, pursuant to the provisions of this article. All
individuals, persons or businesses intending to provide escort services, live
adult entertainment and operate live adult entertainment businesses shall apply
for a live adult entertainer's license prior to performing the activities of an
escort, escort service, live adult entertainer or operating a live adult
entertainment business within the city of Moorhead. Both the business owner and
the individual actually performing the escort services or adult entertainment
services shall obtain an adult entertainment license from the city. (Ord. 2013-
03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-4: LICENSE TERM:
The term of a live adult entertainer license shall be for a period of one year;
provided, however, that all licenses shall be prorated on a quarterly basis and
expire on December 31 of each year unless sooner suspended or revoked. (Ord.
2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-5: LICENSE RENEWAL:
An adult entertainer license, issued pursuant to the provisions of this
article, which has not been suspended or revoked, may be renewed for a period
of not to exceed one year on written application to the city clerk made at
least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the current valid
license. The application for renewal of a license shall contain all of the
information required by section
2-6D-7 of this article and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions
of this article and chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-6: EXCEPTION:
The license requirements of this article shall have no application and no
effect upon and shall not be construed as applying to a person in the lawful
business of:
   A.   An employment agency licensed under the laws of the state of Minnesota;
   B.   An adult bookstore or adult cinema provided no live escorts or adult
entertainers are employed, contracted or otherwise allowed to perform on the
premises.
   C.   Volunteers or models who pose nude or seminude for federal, state or
locally recognized art courses and classes. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-7: APPLICATION FOR LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINER LICENSE; CONTENTS; RENEWALS;
REQUIRED FEES:
   A.   Any person, individual or business desiring to obtain a license, or
renew an existing license, to operate as an escort service, live adult
entertainer or live adult entertainment business, shall make application to the
city clerk. Upon submitting such application for a license, or renewal of a
license, a nonrefundable fee that has been established by the city's fee
schedule shall be paid to the city clerk.
   B.   Neither the filing of an application for a license or renewal thereof,
nor payment of an application or renewal fee, shall authorize the conducting of
escort services, live adult entertainer services or a live adult entertainment
business until such license has been granted or renewed.
   C.   Each applicant for a live adult entertainer license, or renewal
thereof, shall furnish the following information:
      1.   The full true name under which the business will be conducted;
      2.   The full true name and any other names used by the applicant, date
of birth, and social security number;
      3.   The full true name of the person or persons providing the escort
services or live adult entertainment;
      4.   If the applicant is a business, the full true name of any and all
employees who will provide escort services or live adult entertainment;
      5.   The present residence and business address and telephone numbers of
the applicant;
      6.   A full and complete description of the activities that the applicant
intends to undertake;
      7.   Acceptable written proof that the applicant, manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      8.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall
be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter,
together with the state and date of incorporation, and the names, residence
addresses, dates of birth and social security number of each of its current
officers and directors. If the applicant is a partnership, the applicant shall
set forth the names, residence addresses, dates of birth and social security
number of each of the partners, including limited partners. If one or more of
the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this subsection pertaining to
corporations shall apply. The corporation or partnership applicant shall
designate one of its officers or general partners to act as its responsible
managing officer. Such designated person shall complete and sign all
application forms required of an individual applicant under this article, but
only one application fee shall be charged;
      9.   A full and detailed description of the service to be provided and/or
merchandise to be sold;
      10.   A list of all jurisdictions in which the applicant has been
licensed to perform escort services or live adult entertainment;
      11.   A list of any and all misdemeanors or felonies and the jurisdiction
in which they were committed;
      12.   Such other identification and/or information as the city clerk may
require in order to discover the truth of the matters required to be set forth
in the application.
   D.   When any change occurs regarding the written information required by
subsection C of this section to be included in the application, the applicant
or license holder, as the case may be, shall give written notification of such
change to the city clerk within twenty four (24) hours after such change.
   E.   The city clerk shall have a reasonable period of time in which to
review the application.
   F.   The city clerk may deny the application if the applicant has been
convicted of a misdemeanor or felony involving violence, drugs or prostitution
within the last ten (10) years.
   G.   The city clerk may grant the license, or renewal thereof, only if he/
she finds that all of the following requirements have been met:
      1.   The required fees have been paid;
      2.   The application and location conforms in all respects to the
provisions of this article;
      3.   The applicant has not knowingly made a material misrepresentation of
fact in the application;
      4.   The applicant has fully cooperated in the investigation of the
application;
      5.   The applicant, manager or other person principally in charge of the
operation of the business is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      6.   If the city clerk does not find that all of the requirements set
forth in subsections G1 through G5 of this section have been met, he shall deny
the application for the license or renewal thereof. In the event the
application for the license or renewal thereof is denied by the city clerk,
written notice of such denial shall be given to the applicant, specifying the
ground or grounds of such denial. Notice of denial of the application for the
license, or renewal thereof, shall be deemed to have been served if it in fact
is personally served on the applicant or when deposited in the United States
mail with postage prepaid and addressed to the applicant at the residence
address set forth in the application for the permit or renewal thereof. Any
applicant whose application for an adult entertainment business license, or
renewal thereof, has been denied by the city clerk, may appeal such denial to
the city council pursuant to section
2-1-10 of this title. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-8: INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANTS:
The police department shall investigate all applications for a live adult
entertainment license. The police shall conduct a criminal background check as
part of the investigation. In the event a national criminal investigation is
required, the applicant shall be responsible for additional fees incurred in
such and, upon request, provide additional information required to complete
such process. All applicants are required to complete an informal consent
authorizing the disclosure of all criminal history record information. Upon
completion of said investigation, police department shall report to the city
clerk in writing its findings and recommendation. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-9: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINERS:
   A.   No live adult entertainment business shall employ or be operated by any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   No person providing escort services or a live adult entertainer shall
be under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   No live adult entertainment business shall display or furnish any
merchandise or services to any person who is under eighteen (18) years of age,
except that escort services may be provided at the special instance and request
of a parent, guardian or other person in lawful custody of the person upon
whose behalf the escort service is engaged.
   D.   No person providing escort services, live adult entertainment services
or a live adult entertainment business shall conduct escort services or adult
entertainer services in any manner that permits the observation of any escort,
adult entertainer or any material depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening from any public way or from any
property where the escort service or live adult entertainment is being
provided. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-10: LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINER PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION CARD:
All individuals providing escort services or live adult entertainers, or
employees of a business providing escort services, or employees of a live adult
entertainment business engaging in live adult entertainment shall be issued a
personal identification card by the city. The individual or employee shall at
all times while engaged in escort services or live adult entertainment carry
such card upon his or her person when engaging in escort services or live adult
entertainment and shall immediately produce the same for inspection upon
request. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-11: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A.   The holder of a live adult entertainer license to provide escort
services, offer to provide escort services or perform any live adult
entertainer services for any person under eighteen (18) years of age;
   B.   Any person licensed as a live adult entertainer to place his or her
hands upon or touch with any part of his or her body or fondle in any manner a
sexual or genital part of any other person while performing escort services or
adult entertainer services;
   C.   The holder of a live adult entertainer license to provide escort
services, offer to escort, engage in adult entertainment, or offer to perform
adult entertainment for another person without first having a valid adult
entertainer license. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-12: SALE OR TRANSFER:
   A.   Upon the sale or transfer of any interest in any escort service or live
adult entertainment business, the establishment's adult entertainer license
shall immediately become null and void. A new application shall be made by any
person, firm or entity desiring to own or operate the adult entertainment
business. A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be payable for each such
application. Any application involving the sale or other transfer of any
interest in an existing adult entertainment business, as well as any license
which may thereafter be granted, shall be subject to the provisions of this
article.
   B.   Individuals having an adult entertainer license shall not sell,
transfer or assign any interest in said license. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
2-6D-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2013-03, 2-11-2013)
ARTICLE E. TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANIES
SECTION:
2-6E-1: Definitions
2-6E-2: Transportation Network Company License Required
2-6E-3: License Fee And License Term
2-6E-4: License Application
2-6E-5: Qualifications For License
2-6E-6: Investigation And Issuance
2-6E-7: Insurance Required
2-6E-8: Vehicle Ownership And Standards
2-6E-9: Commercial Advertisements Prohibited
2-6E-10: Driver Requirements
2-6E-11: Intoxicating Substance Policy
2-6E-12: Driver Identification Card
2-6E-13: Operating Regulations
2-6E-14: Service Charges And Fare Rates
2-6E-15: Lost Articles
2-6E-16: Smoking
2-6E-17: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-6E-18: Right To Appeal
2-6E-19: Penalty
2-6E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ACTIVE ON THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY'S DIGITAL NETWORK: Means, but is
not limited to, when the driver is logged onto the transportation network
company's digital network showing that the driver is available to pick up
riders; when a rider is in the vehicle; or when the driver has accepted a ride
request and is en route to provide transportation services to a rider.
COMPENSATION: Remuneration or anything of economic value that is provided,
promised, or donated primarily in exchange for services rendered. This
includes, but is not limited to, voluntary donations, fee sharing between a
taxicab or transportation network company and an affiliated driver and rider,
and advertisement of a taxicab service company or transportation network
company services.
DIGITAL NETWORK: Any online enabled application, software, website, or system
offered or utilized by a transportation network company that enables the
prearrangement of rides with transportation network company drivers.
LICENSE: A transportation network company license.
LICENSEE OR TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY LICENSEE: The holder of, or a person
that is required to hold, a transportation network company license issued
pursuant to this article.
OPERATION OF A TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY VEHICLE OR OPERATING A
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY VEHICLE: Offering, making available, or using a
transportation network company vehicle to provide a transportation network
company service, including any time when a driver is logged onto the
transportation network company's digital network showing that the driver is
available to pick up riders; when a rider is in the vehicle; when the
provider's records show that the vehicle is en route; or when the driver has
accepted a ride request and is in route to provide a transportation network
service to a rider.
PERSONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is used by a transportation network company
driver in connection with providing a prearranged ride and is:
   A.   Owned, leased, or otherwise authorized for use by the transportation
network company driver; and
   B.   Not a taxicab, limousine, or for hire vehicle.
PREARRANGED RIDE: The provision of transportation by a transportation network
driver to a rider, beginning when a driver accepts a ride requested by a rider
through a digital network controlled by a transportation network company,
continuing while the driver transports a requesting rider, and ending when the
last requesting transportation company rider departs from the personal vehicle.
A prearranged ride does not include transportation provided using a taxicab,
limousine, or other for hire vehicle.
PREARRANGED TRANSPORTATION SERVICE: A transportation service that is offered
and accepted through a licensee's digital network before the transportation
commences.
RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT: The transportation of persons, for a fee or otherwise,
in a motor vehicle when the transportation is incidental to another purpose of
the driver. The term includes the forms of shared transportation known as car
pools, commuter vanpools, and bus pools, whether or not furnished by an
employer. A "ridesharing arrangement" does not include transportation of
employees by an employer from one place of employment to another.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY: A corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, or other entity that is operating in Minnesota that uses a
digital network to connect transportation network company riders to
transportation network company drivers who provide prearranged rides.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY DRIVER OR DRIVER: An individual who:
   A.   Receives connections to potential riders and related services from a
transportation network company in exchange for payment of a fee to the
transportation network company; and
   B.   Uses a personal vehicle to provide a prearranged ride to riders upon
connection through a digital network controlled by a transportation network
company in return for compensation or payment of a fee.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY REPRESENTATIVE: The person or persons that a
transportation network company has authorized to:
   A.   File applications, rates, and charges with the city clerk on behalf of
the transportation network company;
   B.   Receive and accept all correspondence and notices from the city
pertaining to the transportation network company, or to affiliated drivers
operating within the transportation network company; and
   C.   Forward any correspondence, notices, and legal process received by the
transportation network company and intended for an affiliated driver operating
within the transportation network company.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY RIDER OR RIDER: An individual or persons who use
a transportation network company's digital network to connect with a
transportation network driver who provides prearranged rides to the rider in
the driver's personal vehicle between points chosen by the rider.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY VEHICLE ENDORSEMENT: An endorsement for a
personal vehicle that allows a transportation network company driver to use the
endorsed vehicle to affiliate with a transportation network company to provide
for hire transportation to riders via a digital network. The endorsement
demonstrates that the vehicle has met the minimum requirements as set forth in
this article.
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK SERVICE: A prearranged transportation service offered or
provided for compensation using a digital network to connect potential riders
with transportation network drivers. The term transportation network service
does not include a ridesharing arrangement as that term is defined in Minnesota
statutes section 169.011, subdivision 65.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESSIBLE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK VEHICLE: A transportation network
vehicle that a person in a wheelchair may enter and exit independently or with
assistance while seated in a wheelchair. A wheelchair accessible transportation
network vehicle shall safely secure and restrain the wheelchair, and shall
comply with all applicable standards provided by law for wheelchair accessible
vehicles. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-2: TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in a transportation network service in the city
without a transportation network company license issued pursuant to this
article. Transportation network company licenses will be issued to the person
or company operating a transportation network company, rather than to
individual transportation network company drivers. Accordingly, any person or
company to whom a transportation network company license is issued shall be
responsible for conducting background checks of the drivers who are authorized
to access their company's digital network and taking all steps necessary to
ensure compliance with this article.
   B.   No vehicle shall be used as a transportation network company vehicle in
the city except by a transportation network company endorsed driver affiliated
with a transportation network company licensed pursuant to this article. Said
vehicle shall at all times be in compliance with this article when it is being
used by a driver active on the transportation network company digital network.
   C.   A transportation network company vehicle operated by a driver
affiliated with a transportation network company not licensed by the city may
come into the city for the temporary purpose of discharging riders whose trip
originated outside of the city. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-3: LICENSE FEE AND LICENSE TERM:
   A.   The annual fee for the issuance or renewal of a transportation network
company license shall be as established by the city's fee schedule. The license
fee shall be paid as a precondition to issuance or renewal of the license.
   B.   A transportation network company license shall be issued or renewed for
a license term of one year.
   C.   A transportation network company license is nontransferable. (Ord.
2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Application for the issuance or renewal of a transportation network company
license shall be made in writing to the city clerk on a form provided by the
city clerk and signed and sworn to by the applicant or, if the applicant is a
corporation, limited liability company, or partnership, by its authorized
agent. Each application, in addition to any other information that the city
clerk may reasonably require in connection with issuance or renewal of a
license, shall contain at a minimum:
   A.   The name, address, contact information, social security number, and
other identifying information of the applicant. If the applicant is not an
individual person, the application shall state the names and addresses of all
individuals owning an interest in such business, and if a corporation, shall
give the names and addresses of the officers and directors thereof.
   B.   Proof of insurance as set forth in section
2-6E-7 of this article, including that the applicant named the city as an
additional named insured in the insurance policy.
   C.   A certification that every driver currently in or proposed to be in the
applicant's transportation network has been subject to a criminal background
check under Minnesota statutes section 299C.67 and addressing the items in
section
2-6E-10 of this article, is not a registered predatory offender, and has not
been convicted of any violent offenses, including: wilful homicide, sex
offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, reckless endangerment, terrorizing,
kidnapping, human trafficking, theft of a motor vehicle, felonious restraint,
unlawful or false imprisonment, rioting, or attempt, facilitation,
solicitation, or conspiracy of any of the previously listed offenses.
   D.   A transportation network company shall further file with the city clerk
documentation evidencing that the transportation network company or the driver
has named the city as an additional named insured. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-5: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   In order to qualify for a transportation network company license,
whether upon initial application or upon application for renewal of a license,
an applicant must be able to show the following:
      1.   The applicant is in compliance with all applicable city, state, and
federal laws;
      2.   The applicant has a registered agent;
      3.   With respect to any corporate or limited liability company
applicant, the company is organized, registered, or qualified to do business
under the laws of the state of Minnesota;
      4.   The applicant(s) is the true beneficial owner(s) of the
transportation network company to be licensed. The full legal names and
addresses of all applicant(s), corporate officers, and persons holding a twenty
five percent (25%) or greater beneficial interest in the company shall be
provided on the application, and said persons shall have no felony convictions
in the past five (5) years, nor any gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
convictions involving the use of force, possession, or sale of a controlled
substance, prostitution, or indecent conduct. The city clerk may grant an
exception to this provision upon evidence that the offense is not related to
the operation of a transportation network company;
      5.   The applicant's ability to provide lawful, safe, suitable, and
comfortable service and the applicant's ability to engage qualified
transportation network company drivers and eligible transportation network
company vehicles; and
      6.   The applicant's ability to maintain mandated insurance for the
payment of personal injury, death, property damage, and other claims associated
with the operation of a transportation network company.
   B.   No applicant is eligible for a license if any transportation network
company license held by the applicant, or by any officer or director of a
corporate applicant or partner of a partnership applicant, has been revoked
within the previous five (5) years, or if the applicant, or any officer or
director of a corporate applicant or partner of a partnership applicant, within
the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application, has been
either convicted, or is in custody, under parole, or under any other
noncustodial supervision resulting from a conviction in a court of any
jurisdiction, for the commission of any felony, nor any gross misdemeanor or
misdemeanor convictions involving the use of force, possession, or sale of a
controlled substance, prostitution, or indecent conduct. The city clerk may
grant an exception to this provision upon evidence that the offense is not
related to the operation of a transportation network company. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-
8-2016)
2-6E-6: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of an application for the issuance or renewal of a transportation
network company license, the city clerk and the police chief may investigate
the application for compliance with all applicable provisions of this code,
including, but not limited to, the applicant's compliance or ability to comply
with the license qualification requirements specified in this article. It shall
be the responsibility of the licensee to conduct background checks under
Minnesota statutes section 299C.67 and for all of its drivers to ensure that
all drivers meet the requirements of section
2-6E-10 of this article. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every licensee and transportation network company driver shall comply
with all applicable insurance requirements mandated by Minnesota statutes
65B.472. A transportation network company shall file with the city clerk a
certificate of insurance evidencing that the transportation network company has
complied with such requirements.
   B.   A transportation network company shall further file with the city clerk
documentation evidencing that the transportation network company has named the
city as an additional named insured.
   C.   All insurance policies required under this section shall contain a
clause providing for thirty (30) days' written notice to the city clerk before
cancellation. The city clerk may impose an administrative fee for any temporary
lapse in insurance that requires a subsequent reinstatement. Failure to
maintain insurance as provided in this section is grounds for revocation of a
transportation network company license.
   D.   The existence of the insurance required by this section shall be
disclosed on the transportation network company's website, and no contractual
hold harmless provisions required in the company's terms of service shall be
used to evade the insurance requirements of this article.
   E.   No transportation network company license shall be issued unless the
applicant first provides certified copies of the insurance policies required in
this section to the city clerk. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-8: VEHICLE OWNERSHIP AND STANDARDS:
   A.   No licensee shall own, provide financing for the obtaining, leasing, or
ownership of, or have a beneficial interest in transportation network company
vehicles unless approved by the city clerk.
   B.   In addition to all other applicable legal requirements, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated any transportation
network company vehicle unless such vehicle:
      1.   Has a manufacturer's rated seating capacity of seven (7) persons or
less, including the transportation network company driver;
      2.   Has at least four (4) doors and meets applicable federal motor
vehicle safety standards for vehicles of its size, type, and proposed use;
      3.   Is a sedan or light duty vehicle, including a minivan, sport utility
vehicle, pickup truck, hatchback, or convertible; and
      4.   At the time of annual inspection, is not more than ten (10) model
years of age from the current model year (as measured from June 30 of the
calendar year following the model year), or has an odometer reading of less
than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) miles.
   C.   The licensee and the transportation network company driver may be
jointly cited if the licensee permits the transportation network company driver
to use a vehicle that does not meet the requirements for a transportation
network company vehicle. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-15, 6-13-2022)
2-6E-9: COMMERCIAL ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED:
No commercial advertisements or lighting, except for those installed by the
original equipment manufacturer, shall be displayed on the exterior of any
transportation network company endorsed vehicle. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-10: DRIVER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No licensee shall engage any person as a transportation network company
driver unless the person:
      1.   Is a citizen of the United States or an alien admitted for permanent
residence, or who has otherwise obtained work authorization from the U.S.
citizenship and immigration services.
      2.   Possesses a valid driver's license issued by one of the states of
the United States Of America.
      3.   Is a minimum of eighteen (18) years old.
      4.   Is able to read and speak the English language sufficiently to
converse with the general public, to understand highway traffic signs and
signals in the English language, to respond to official inquiries, and to make
entries on reports and records.
      5.   Does not have a physical or mental disability that would prevent the
transportation network company driver from safely operating a transportation
network company vehicle and performing the normal duties of a transportation
network company endorsed driver.
      6.   Has a driving record meeting the following standards:
         a.   For the past three (3) years, the driving record is clear of:
            (1)   A license cancellation under Minnesota statutes section
171.14, a revocation under Minnesota statutes sections 169A.52 and 171.17, or a
suspension under Minnesota statutes section 171.18;
            (2)   A conviction for operating a motor vehicle without insurance
under Minnesota statutes section 169.797;
            (3)   A conviction for driving a motor vehicle without a valid
license for the class of vehicle driven under Minnesota statutes section
171.02;
            (4)   A conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol or a
controlled substance under Minnesota statutes section 169A.20, or an ordinance
that conforms to that section;
            (5)   A conviction for alcohol related driving by a commercial
vehicle driver under Minnesota statutes section 169A.20, subdivision 1, clause
(6);
            (6)   A conviction for leaving the scene of an accident 1 ; and
            (7)   A conviction for reckless or careless driving 2 .
         b.   No license revocation within the previous year, as defined by
Minnesota statutes section 169A.03, subdivision 21.
         c.   For initial transportation network company endorsement: No more
than three (3) moving violations within the last three (3) years, and no more
than three (3) moving violations in the last year. A "moving violation" means,
for this subsection, a violation of a traffic regulation, but does not include
a parking violation, vehicle equipment violation, or warning citation.
         d.   To maintain existing transportation network company endorsement:
No more than three (3) moving violations within the last three (3) years and no
more than three (3) moving violations in the last year. A "moving violation"
means, for this subsection, a violation of a traffic regulation, but does not
include a parking violation, vehicle equipment violation, or warning citation.
      7.   Has a criminal record clear of any misdemeanor or felony conviction:
         a.   As a habitual offender for driving under the influence of alcohol
or a controlled substance under Minnesota statutes section 169A.24 or 169A.25;
and
         b.   Of a crime or anticipatory crime against persons, or a crime or
anticipatory crime. The following offenses are crimes against persons and are
listed with the section, subdivision, or chapter number showing where the
offense is found in Minnesota statutes, as they may be amended from time to
time:
            (1)   Attempts, 609.17;
            (2)   Conspiracy, 609.175;
            (3)   Murder in the first degree, 609.185;
            (4)   Murder in the second degree, 609.19;
            (5)   Murder in the third degree, 609.195;
            (6)   Manslaughter in the first degree, 609.20;
            (7)   Manslaughter in the second degree, 609.205;
            (8)   Criminal vehicular homicide and injury, 609.2111 to 609.2114;
            (9)   Assault in the first degree, 609.221;
            (10)   Assault in the second degree, 609.222;
            (11)   Assault in the third degree, 609.223;
            (12)   Assault in the fourth degree, 609.2231;
            (13)   Great bodily harm caused by distribution of drugs, 609.228;
            (14)   Use of drugs to injure or facilitate crime, 609.235;
            (15)   Simple robbery, 609.24;
            (16)   Aggravated robbery, 609.245;
            (17)   Kidnapping, 609.25;
            (18)   False imprisonment, 609.255;
            (19)   Abduction, 609.265;
            (20)   Criminal sexual conduct in the first degree, 609.342;
            (21)   Criminal sexual conduct in the second degree, 609.343;
            (22)   Criminal sexual conduct in the third degree, 609.344;
            (23)   Criminal sexual conduct in the fourth degree, 609.345;
            (24)   Solicitation of children to engage in sexual conduct,
609.352;
            (25)   Fleeing a peace officer in a motor vehicle, 609.487;
            (26)   Misusing credit card to secure services, 609.545;
            (27)   Burglary, 609.582, subdivision 1; or
            (28)   Prohibited drugs; felony convictions, chapter 152.
      8.   Is not a registered predatory offender in any state.
      9.   Has at least one year's driving experience as a licensed driver,
meeting the standards of this section. Such prior driving experience shall be
verified by the transportation network company prior to endorsement as a
transportation network company driver.
   B.   All licensees shall perform a criminal history record check on each
transportation network company driver applicant before endorsing such
applicant. All licensees shall also obtain and review each transportation
network company driver applicant's driving record before endorsing such driver.
One year after the initial date of endorsement of a driver, and annually
thereafter, each licensee shall verify that the driver is still eligible to be
a transportation network company endorsed driver by verifying that the driver
meets all of the requirements specified in this section, including the driving
and criminal background check requirements.
   C.   A transportation network company must maintain the following records:
1) individual trip records for at least one year from the date each trip was
provided; and 2) individual records of the transportation network company's
drivers at least until the one year anniversary of the date on which a
transportation network company driver's relationship with the transportation
network company has ended.
   D.   For the sole purpose of verifying that a transportation network company
is in compliance with the requirements of this section and no more than
annually, the city of Moorhead shall have the right to visually inspect a
sample of records that the transportation network company is required to
maintain. The sample shall be chosen randomly by the city of Moorhead in a
manner agreeable to both parties. The audit shall take place at a mutually
agreed upon location. Any record furnished to the city of Moorhead may exclude
information that would tend to identify specific drivers or riders to protect
their privacy.
   E.   In response to a specific complaint against any transportation network
company driver or the transportation network company, the city of Moorhead is
authorized to visually inspect records held by the transportation network
company that are necessary to investigate and resolve the complaint. The visual
inspection shall take place at a mutually agreed upon location. Any record
furnished to the city of Moorhead may exclude information that would tend to
identify specific drivers or riders, unless the identity of a driver or rider
is relevant to the complaint.
   F.   To the extent permitted by the Minnesota government data practices act,
the city will not disclose any confidential records inspected by the city of
Moorhead under this chapter. If the city is required to disclose confidential
information obtained under this chapter pursuant to a court order or other
applicable law, the city shall promptly notify the transportation network
company of such requirement, prior to disclosure, and shall make diligent
efforts to limit disclosure pursuant to any available basis in Minnesota's
government data practices act or other applicable law.
   G.   If a licensee knowingly allows an ineligible driver access to its
digital network, or fails to annually ascertain the eligibility of each driver
allowed such access, the licensee shall be liable for the violation of this
section and shall also be jointly responsible with the ineligible driver for
any violation of this article by the ineligible driver. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-
2016)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA §§609.2112 or 169.09, as amended, or similar law of another state.
2 2. MSA §169.13, as amended, or similar law of another state.
2-6E-11: INTOXICATING SUBSTANCE POLICY:
All licensees shall include on their website, mobile application, and rider
receipts, a notice or information on the licensee's zero tolerance policy for
intoxicating substances and shall describe the methods to report a
transportation network company driver whom the rider reasonably suspects was
under the influence of drugs or alcohol during the ride. The website and mobile
application shall include a phone number or mobile application call function
and e-mail address to make an intoxication complaint. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-12: DRIVER IDENTIFICATION CARD:
The licensee shall issue an identification card to each driver that the
licensee endorses. Such identification card shall have the first name of the
driver, and a photograph attached to the identification card. Any
transportation network company driver shall wear the identification card at all
times while operating a transportation network company vehicle and remaining
active on the transportation network company's digital network. Alternatively,
the driver identification card may be electronically displayed to riders
through the riders' mobile devices during a transportation network company
ride. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-13: OPERATING REGULATIONS:
   A.   In addition to all other applicable requirements provided by law, it
shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   Who does not meet the minimum driver requirements set forth in
section
2-6E-10 of this article to operate a transportation network company vehicle;
      2.   To operate a transportation network company vehicle while under the
influence of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances, other than
medication prescribed by a physician, provided that such prescribed medication
does not warn the user to avoid operating machinery while taking the
medication;
      3.   To operate, or cause to be operated, a transportation network
company vehicle in any area where the operation of such vehicle is prohibited
by an applicable law;
      4.   To operate a transportation network company vehicle within the city
while not in possession of a valid driver's license issued by any state;
      5.   To operate, or cause to be operated, a transportation network
company vehicle that does not meet the requirements of section
2-6E-8 of this article; or
      6.   To transport or cause to be transported more than six (6) riders on
any given ride in a vehicle, or to exceed the designed capacity of the vehicle.
   B.   No transportation network company driver shall pick up or discharge a
rider on:
      1.   Designated taxicab stands.
      2.   No stopping or standing zones.
      3.   Other restricted areas as outlined in this code or state law.
   C.   No person may possess an open beverage alcohol container while such
person is operating or being transported by a transportation network company
vehicle, nor may any person transport, carry, possess, or have any beverage
alcohol container while operating or being transported by a transportation
network company vehicle, except in the original package with the seal unbroken.
   D.   No licensee or transportation network company driver shall solicit
potential riders. Transportation network company vehicles may only be used to
provide transportation services requested via a digital network. For purposes
of this subsection, the term "solicit" means an appeal by words or gestures for
immediate patronage of a transportation network company vehicle by a licensee
or a transportation network company driver upon the public way attempting to
direct people to a transportation network company vehicle that is parked,
stopped, standing, or moving upon the public way.
   E.   No transportation network company driver shall accept or respond to
riders' or potential riders' requests for service via traditional street hail,
including hand gestures and verbal statements.
   F.   No transportation network company vehicle shall be unlawfully parked on
any public way for a time longer than is reasonably necessary to accept riders
in answer to a prearranged transportation service and no rider shall be
accepted except as provided in subsection D of this section.
   G.   The digital network used by a licensee to connect drivers and riders
shall display for a rider:
      1.   The identification card of the transportation network company
driver; and
      2.   A picture or description of the transportation network company
vehicle the driver is approved to use, including the make, model, and license
plate number of the vehicle.
   H.   Licensees shall clearly disclose, on the licensee's digital network,
that the licensee is a transportation network company. Additionally, the
disclosure shall state that each licensee is required to maintain insurance
policies as specified in section
2-6E-7 of this article.
   I.   Licensees shall provide proof of insurance documents required in
section
2-6E-7 of this article to each transportation network company driver before the
driver begins providing service and for as long as the driver remains available
to provide service. A transportation network company endorsed driver shall at
all times carry in the transportation network company vehicle proof of the
insurance policies required in section
2-6E-7 of this article.
   J.   Licensees shall allow wheelchair accessible vehicles that meet all
other requirements in this section to access the transportation network
company's digital network. If requested, licensee shall provide riders with
information about the city's wheelchair accessible vehicle service.
   K.   The transportation network company shall adopt a policy of
nondiscrimination on the basis of destination, race, color, national origin,
religious belief or affiliation, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, and
gender identity with respect to riders and potential riders and shall notify
transportation network company drivers of said policy.
   L.   Any terms or conditions in the agreement between the licensee and any
customer that would act as a waiver of the licensee's liability to the
customer, or to the public, are declared to be contrary to public policy, null,
void, and unenforceable.
   M.   Transportation network company drivers shall not:
      1.   Provide false information to or refuse to obey or to comply with any
lawful order or direction of the city clerk, any police officer, or any traffic
control officer, nor shall any driver use profane language or otherwise
interfere with such officials while in the performance of their duties;
      2.   Take a circuitous route to a destination, or any route other than
the most direct route, without the express consent of the rider;
      3.   Drop a rider at a location other than the location requested unless
prohibited by law; or
      4.   Refuse to transport an orderly rider after accepting dispatch to
transport that rider.
   N.   No transportation network company licensee shall disable, eliminate, or
otherwise prevent access to the transportation network company's digital
network by the city clerk or designees of the city clerk for purposes of
enforcing this article.
   O.   No transportation network company licensee shall notify transportation
network company drivers that a potential customer is or may be the city clerk
or designees of the city clerk, or in any way otherwise interfere with or
obstruct enforcement of this code by the city clerk. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-14: SERVICE CHARGES AND FARE RATES:
   A.   Compensation for service may be charged based on distance traveled and/
or time elapsed during service, or a flat prearranged fare.
   B.   Upon completion of a prearranged ride, a transportation network company
shall transmit to the rider an electronic receipt, either by electronic mail or
via text message. The message shall document:
      1.   The point of origin and destination of the ride;
      2.   The total distance and duration of the ride;
      3.   The total fare paid including the base fare and any additional
charges; and
      4.   The driver's first name and a customer service telephone number or
e-mail address. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-15: LOST ARTICLES:
Whenever any package, money, articles of baggage, or goods of any description
are left in or on any transportation network company vehicle, or when any
package or article is left in the custody of the driver of any such vehicle,
such driver shall, upon the discovery of such package or article, deliver it at
the police station into the hands of the officer in charge of the station,
unless the package or article may be sooner delivered to the owner or to the
order of such owner. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-16: SMOKING:
In accordance with the Minnesota clean indoor air act, as it may be amended
from time to time, smoking of tobacco products is prohibited inside any
transportation network company vehicle. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-17: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council may deny, suspend or revoke any license to operate a
transportation network company service as defined in this article in accordance
with the provisions of section
2-1-10 of this title. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-18: RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the city clerk, pursuant to this article,
may appeal the decision of the city clerk to the city council by filing a
written appeal with the city clerk within thirty (30) days of an adverse
decision. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
2-6E-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2016-04, 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 7
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND RECREATION CAMPING AREAS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 10 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
PARADES
SECTION:
2-8-1: Application for Parade Permit
2-8-1: APPLICATION FOR PARADE PERMIT:
Any person or organization planning to sponsor a parade within the City shall
make application for a parade permit with the City, which application shall
require the following information:
   A.   Applicant's name, home address and telephone number.
   B.   Organization's name, address and telephone number.
   C.   Date and time of parade.
   D.   Approximate number of participants.
   E.   Description of type of parade (e.g. floats, walking, vehicles, horses,
etc.).
   F.   Purpose or occasion for parade.
   G.   Map of the parade route from start to finish. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 9
NONALCOHOLIC CLUBS
SECTION:
2-9-1: Definitions
2-9-2: License Required And Classification
2-9-3: Application For License
2-9-4: License And Bond Fees
2-9-5: Resident Manager
2-9-6: Granting Of Licenses
2-9-7: Investigation Expense
2-9-8: Insurance Requirements
2-9-9: Responsibility For Conduct Of Business
2-9-10: Inspection Of Premises
2-9-11: Conditions Of License
2-9-12: Hours And Days Of Sale
2-9-13: Entertainment Restrictions
2-9-14: Inactivity Of Licensee
2-9-15: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
2-9-16: Penalty For Violations
2-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms as used in this chapter shall mean:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing more than one- half of one percent
(0.5%) of alcohol by volume.
LICENSED PREMISES: Premises described in the approved license application.
NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing less than one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume.
NONALCOHOLIC CLUB: An establishment used exclusively for sale of nonalcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises, which sale may be accompanied by the
incidental sale of food for on premises consumption when authorized by city
license, the offering of recorded or live entertainment, and the making
available of coin operated amusement devices. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989; amd. Ord.
91-10, 6-17-1991)
2-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED AND CLASSIFICATION:
No person shall operate, maintain or otherwise engage in the business of the
operation of a nonalcoholic club without first having received a license to do
so as provided in this chapter. Such a license shall be classified as a
nonalcoholic beverage license which shall only be issued to a nonalcoholic
club. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-1991)
2-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any persons desiring to operate, maintain or engage in the business of
operating a nonalcoholic club shall make their verified application in writing
to the council upon such forms as the council from time to time shall require
and shall file the same with the city clerk. The application shall set forth,
in addition to other information as may from time to time be required by the
council, the following information: (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-1991)
      1.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of the
applicant if an individual.
      2.   The name, state of incorporation, date of incorporation if a
corporation and the name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence
of all members of the board of directors, stockholders and officers of such
corporation.
      3.   If a partnership, the name of such partnership, the address of its
principal office for doing business and the name, age, date and place of birth
and place of residence of all members of the partnership.
      4.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of the
manager, principal operator or other person who will be conducting and/or
managing the premises for which the application for license is sought.
      5.   The name, age, date and place of birth and place of residence of any
person having any financial interest in the business other than as an owner,
stockholder, director or resident manager.
      6.   The location of the premises upon which the applicant proposes to
sell such nonalcoholic beverages, an exact description of the particular place
within the building structure where such sales are proposed, and exact
description of the entrance to the premises and the immediate area adjacent to
the premises that will be utilized by patrons for accessing the premises and
parking.
      7.   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in a similar business,
and if so, the location thereof and the date when so engaged.
      8.   A complete and detailed description of the nature of the business
operation to be conducted on the premises, if a license is granted.
      9.   A complete listing of any and all convictions relating to any
violations of state law or ordinances of any jurisdiction and a complete
listing of all gross misdemeanor and felony convictions whatsoever.
      10.   The applicants, their resident managers and any other persons
required by the police department during the course of its investigation of the
application as hereinafter set forth may be required to furnish, as a part of
the application, fingerprints for aid and assistance to the police department
in conducting their investigation. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989)
   B.   Each application shall also be accompanied by a certified check, money
order, cashier's check, or cash in an amount equal to the annual license fee
for one year for the license for which application is being made. In addition,
each application made for a license shall be accompanied by a bond from a
surety company in form and content as required by Minnesota statutes. The bond
shall be approved as to form and substance by the city staff and be subject to
such council approval as may be required by law. Any license holders who
operate a nonalcoholic club without having on file at all times with the city
clerk an effective bond shall have their license immediately revoked. The fee
and bond requirements under this section shall not apply to colleges,
universities, or other postsecondary institutions of higher education engaged
in the not for profit operation of a nonalcoholic club. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-1991)
   C.   The applicants shall be bound by all of the answers and information
furnished on the application presented to the city of Moorhead and any
falsification of information requested on said application, or any other
information requested by the city in its course of investigation of the
applicants or their resident managers shall be grounds for denial of the
license and, in addition thereto, shall be grounds for revocation of the
license if the license is approved and issued prior to the discovery of such
falsification. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989)
2-9-4: LICENSE AND BOND FEES:
   A.   License:
      1.   Fee: As established by the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-
2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
      2.   Bond: As established by the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-
1991; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   B.   Exclusion From Fee And Bond Requirements: The fee and bond requirements
under this section shall not apply to colleges, universities, and other
postsecondary institutions of higher education engaged in the not for profit
operation of a nonalcoholic club. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-1991)
   C.   Fees Paid Into General Fund: All license fees shall be paid into the
general fund of the city. Upon rejection of any application for a license
hereunder, the city shall refund the amount paid, less any investigation costs
incurred by the city as hereinafter set forth.
   D.   Term Of The License: The term of the license year shall begin and end
with the calendar year. Where the issuance of a license for the period of less
than one year is permitted, the effective date of such license shall commence
with the date of issuance and expire on December 31. If the license is issued
for a time less than one year, the license fee shall be prorated on a monthly
basis. In computing such fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be
counted as one month. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989)
2-9-5: RESIDENT MANAGER:
   A.   If a license holder is a person other than an individual engaged in the
active day to day management of the business, such license holder shall
designate in writing to the city the name of a resident manager. (Ord. 89-1, 2-
6-1989)
   B.   A license holder or license holder's designated resident manager shall
be individuals actively engaged in the day to day management of the business
and shall have the usual and customary duties and responsibilities consistent
with directing and operating a nonalcoholic club, including, but not limited
to, the authority to hire and fire employees, set operation policy, secure
entertainment, and purchase inventory to be used in the operation of the
business. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-1991)
   C.   It is mandatory that any license holder, or, if the license holder
designates a resident manager, any resident manager be readily available to the
city and city's law enforcement officers on a twenty four (24) hour basis with
current home and office telephone numbers and addresses being maintained on
file by the license holder or designated resident manager with the police
department. The resident managers shall be residents of either Clay County,
Minnesota, or Cass County, North Dakota, at all times during their designation
as resident managers. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989)
2-9-6: GRANTING OF LICENSES:
   A.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a license, together
with the accompanying license fee and surety bond, the city clerk shall
determine if such application is in order as to content and execution. The city
clerk shall then refer the application to the police department of the city for
an investigation of the background and character of the applicant and any
persons associated with applicant in the conduct of the business proposed to be
licensed. The investigation, among other things, should reveal the character
and/or reputation of the applicant for a license and the applicant's ability
and willingness to comply with the terms of this chapter. The council shall act
and either approve or deny the issuance of said license on the basis of said
investigation.
   B.   Change In Resident Manager: In the event a license holder is required
by the terms of this chapter to have a designated resident manager, the license
holder shall report change of resident manager to the city clerk within fifteen
(15) days and shall submit an application to the city clerk for approval of the
new resident manager. The city clerk shall then refer the application to the
police department for review and investigation in the same manner as an
investigation for a new applicant for a license. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-1989)
2-9-7: INVESTIGATION EXPENSE:
The applicant for a license shall be responsible for the cost of investigation
conducted by the police department in connection with the processing of the
application for a license. The cost of an in state investigation of an
application shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), and the cost of an
out of state investigation of an applicant shall not exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00). In connection with any application for a license, a
minimum fee as established by the city's fee schedule shall be charged to the
applicant. Said fee shall be submitted to the city clerk, along with the
initial license application. Any further investigation fees shall be paid by
the applicant prior to the issuance of a license if the application is approved
by the council. The fee and cost requirements under this section shall not
apply to colleges, universities, or other postsecondary institutions of higher
education engaged in the not for profit operation of a nonalcoholic club. (Ord.
91-10, 6-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
2-9-8: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom a nonalcoholic club
license is issued to obtain, maintain and file with the city clerk a
certificate of general liability insurance having an annual, aggregate policy
limit for insurance of not less than six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000.00)
per policy year. The insurance requirements under this section shall not apply
to colleges, universities, or other postsecondary institutions of higher
education engaged in the not for profit operation of a nonalcoholic club. (Ord.
91-10, 6-17-1991)
2-9-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Compliance With Chapter: It shall be the responsibility of the person
to whom a nonalcoholic club license is issued and such persons designated as
resident managers from time to time to carry out all of the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
   B.   Maintain Orderly And Secure Premises: It shall be the responsibility of
the person to whom the license to operate a nonalcoholic club is issued and
such persons designated as resident managers from time to time to conduct the
operation of the nonalcoholic club in a peaceful and safe manner, and to
maintain order, sobriety and security upon the licensed premises. A security
plan for the nonalcoholic club shall be kept current and on file with the
police department in accordance with subsection 2-9-11C of this chapter.
   C.   No Alcoholic Beverage Allowed: It shall be the responsibility of the
person to whom the license to operate a nonalcoholic club is issued and such
persons designated as resident managers from time to time to prevent any person
possessing, consuming, or under the influence of an alcoholic beverage from
entering, frequenting or loitering upon the licensed premises. Specifically no
person who is under the legal drinking age who has obviously been consuming
alcoholic beverages shall be admitted upon the licensed premises.
   D.   No Alcoholic Beverage Sold: It shall be the responsibility of the
person to whom the license to operate a nonalcoholic club is issued and such
persons designated as resident managers from time to time to insure that no
alcoholic beverage is sold on the licensed premises.
   E.   Duty to Report Violations: It shall be the responsibility of the person
to whom the license to operate a nonalcoholic club is issued and such persons
designated as resident managers from time to time to report to the Police
Department any violations of law which may occur upon the licensed premises,
specifically including by way of example and not limitation any violations of
this Chapter or Minnesota Statutes chapter 340A.
   F.   License Revocation: Any violation of the responsibilities outlined in
Sections 2-9-9A through 2-9-9E, inclusive, may constitute grounds for
suspension, revocation, or nonrenewal of a license to operate a nonalcoholic
club.
2-9-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Any persons holding a license to operate a nonalcoholic club shall agree, by
acceptance of the license, if the issuance of said license is approved by the
City, that their place of business will be open to inspection by authorized
City personnel, including the Police Department, without notice at any time
during normal business hours. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-91)
2-9-11: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License to Applicant and Premises Only: Each license shall be issued to
the applicant only and shall be issued for the premises described in the
license application.
   B.   Transfer of License: No license may be transferred to another person or
to another place without the approval of the Council.
   C.   Security Plan: No license shall be issued to the applicant until the
applicant files with the Police Department and has approved by the Police Chief
a security plan for the licensed premises outlining security arrangements for
inside the premises, at the door and/or entrance to the premises, and in the
immediate area adjacent to the premises utilized by patrons for accessing the
premises and parking. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-89)
2-9-12: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE:
No nonalcoholic club shall be open between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. on Monday through Saturday, nor between one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) P.M. on Sunday. (Ord. 91-10, 6-17-91)
2-9-13: ENTERTAINMENT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: No entertainment on a licensed premises shall contain:
      1.   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or
genitals;
      4.   The performance of any nude dancing or display of nudity by
employees of the licensed premises or patrons of the licensed premises.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following shall mean:
   ENTERTAINMENT: All forms and types of performing or entertaining for patrons
on licensed premises without regard to whether the person performing or
entertaining is paid a monetary consideration or other consideration or merely
performs or entertains without consideration.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic hair or
buttocks or the human female breast including the nipple or any portion below
the nipple with less than a full opaque covering; provided, however, for
entertainment purposes only "with less than a full opaque covering" shall mean
or include the wearing of pasties. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-89)
   C.   Licensee's Responsibility: A licensee shall have the duty and
responsibility of supervising all entertainment as defined herein and any
violation of this Section shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the
nonalcoholic club license held by the licensee. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-89; amd. Ord.
91-10, 6-17-91)
2-9-14: INACTIVITY OF LICENSEE:
No license issued pursuant to the terms of this Chapter shall be held for a
period longer than one year after its approval for issuance by the Council
without being actively used to operate a business for which the license is
obtained. In the event the license is not made active within the period of one
year from approval of its issuance, the Council may revoke said license and any
license fees paid for such license shall be nonrefundable.
2-9-15: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The Council may deny, suspend or revoke any license defined by the provisions
of this Chapter in accordance with the provisions of Section 2-9-9G of this
Chapter and Section 2-1-10B of this City Code.
2-9-16: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
In addition to the penalties of suspension or revocation, any persons violating
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be penalized in
accordance with the provisions of Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 89-1, 2-6-89)
CHAPTER 10
PET SHOPS
SECTION:
2-10-1: Definitions
2-10-2: License Required; Artificially Colored Animals
2-10-3: Annual License; Fee; Regulations
2-10-4: Inspection
2-10-5: Cruelty Prohibited
2-10-6: Sanitation; Food And Water Required
2-10-7: Termination, Suspension, Revocation
2-10-8: Penalty
2-10-9: Effective Date
2-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following
definitions shall apply:
PET ANIMALS: Shall include any species of animals, except fish and except
worms, leeches or the like sold for fishing bait.
PET SHOP: Any person, firm, company or corporation maintained separately or in
connection with another commercial enterprise which keeps, handles, breeds,
sells, offers for sale, or exchanges pet animals for the purpose of wholesale
or retail sale. The term "pet shop" shall not include a person, firm, company
or corporation which sells, offers for sale or exchanges less than twenty five
(25) pet animals in any single calendar year, nor which keeps lost or homeless
pet animals for the purpose of locating the existing owner of the pet animals
or a new owner and which recoups solely expenses incurred in caring for said
pet animal. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; ARTIFICIALLY COLORED ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a pet shop unless a license is first
obtained from the city clerk.
   B.   No artificially colored birds or animals shall be sold or displayed by
any person at any time. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-3: ANNUAL LICENSE; FEE; REGULATIONS:
The license mentioned in section
2-10-2 of this chapter shall be issued annually, January 1, by the city clerk
after an inspection by a city official. The fee therefor shall be as
established by the city's fee schedule and applicants shall fill in and sign an
application form furnished by the city clerk. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997; amd. Ord.
2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
The city is authorized to promulgate regulations creating minimum standards for
pet shops pertaining to the facilities for housing and maintenance of animals,
requirements for feeding and watering animals, sanitary conditions for animals,
disease control and medical care, record keeping requirements and minimum age
requirements of animals to be sold, which regulations may be enforced by the
city employees after they are approved by the city council. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-
1997)
2-10-4: INSPECTION:
The members of the city council, the chief of police, or any officer or
employee of the health or police department may, at any time, enter upon any
licensed premises for the purpose of police inspection or to determine whether
the licensed premises are in compliance with any and all ordinances of the
city. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-5: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to beat, injure, mistreat,
or otherwise abuse inhumanely, unnecessarily, or cruelly any baby chicks,
ducklings, canaries, parakeets, rabbits, or other pet birds or animals. (Ord.
97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-6: SANITATION; FOOD AND WATER REQUIRED:
All pet birds or animals kept for sale or display or any other purpose shall be
provided with suitable sanitary housing with clean and proper food and water
available at all times. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-7: TERMINATION, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise
specifically provided, shall terminate on December 31 following the date of
issuance; provided, however, that any license issued under the provisions of
this Chapter may, under certain circumstances, be terminated, suspended or
revoked by the Council.
   A.   The Council may, in its discretion, suspend or revoke for cause any
license issued under the provisions of this Chapter. The grounds for suspension
or revocation shall, among others, include the following:
      1.   The licensee has filed a petition in bankruptcy.
      2.   An individual licensee, one of the partners in a partnership
licensee, or one of the officers in a corporation licensee, or any individual
in active management of the licensed business is convicted of violating any of
the provisions of this Chapter.
      3.   The licensee has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
United States or under the laws of one of the several states.
      4.   The licensee has made any false statement in his application for a
license.
      5.   The licensee has violated one or more of the regulations created
pursuant to Section
2-10-3 of this Chapter.
   B.   The grounds enumerated in subsection A of this Section shall not be
deemed to be exclusive and any license issued under the provisions of this
Chapter may be suspended or revoked by the Council for any other reason deemed
by the Council to be sufficient in order to promote and protect the health,
safety, and humane treatment of animals in the care of the licensees. When any
license is suspended or revoked by the Council pursuant to the provisions of
this Section, or when the licensee voluntarily ceases business, no portion of
the license fee previously paid shall be returned to the licensee or to anyone
claiming under or through him.
   C.   No license issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
suspended or revoked for cause by the Council without a public hearing. In the
event that the Council intends to consider the suspension or revocation of any
license for cause, it shall direct the City Clerk to notify the licensee of its
intention to consider the same. The notice shall specify the time and place of
the suspension or revocation hearing and shall be served upon the licensee or
his managing agent in the same manner as provided by law for the service of a
summons in a civil action. No suspension or revocation hearing shall be held
before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after the date of the service of the
notice upon the licensee.
If, upon such hearing, it appears to the Council that sufficient cause exists
for the suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to the provisions
of this Chapter, the Council shall make its order suspending or revoking the
said license. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-8: PENALTY:
Every person, firm, company, or corporation convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of Sections
2-10-2 through
2-10-6 of this Chapter shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
2-10-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall take effect on the date of publication in accordance with
the Moorhead City Charter. Provided that any person or entity conducting a
business as of the effective date of this Chapter requiring a license pursuant
to this Chapter shall have thirty (30) days from the effective date of the
Chapter to become licensed. (Ord. 97-15, 8-18-1997)
CHAPTER 11
CONSUMER SHORT-TERM LENDERS
SECTION:
2-11-1: Definitions
2-11-2: License Required
2-11-3: Application For License
2-11-4: License Term And Fees
2-11-5: Miscellaneous Requirements For Consumer Short-Term Lenders
2-11-6: Maintenance Of Records; Annual Reports
2-11-7: Approval, Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
2-11-8: Violations And Penalties
2-11-9: Other Applicable Laws
2-11-10: Effective Date
2-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
will be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions will apply:
 
                            An individual or entity engaged in the business of
CONSUMER SHORT-TERM LENDER: making or arranging consumer short-term loans,
                            other than a state or federally chartered bank,
                            savings bank, or credit union.
                            A loan to a borrower which has a principal amount,
                            or an advance on a credit limit, of $1,000 or less
                            and requires a minimum payment within 60 days of
                            loan origination or credit advance of more than 25
CONSUMER SHORT-TERM LOAN:   percent of the principal balance or credit advance.
                            For the purposes of this section, each new advance
                            of money to a borrower under a consumer short-term
                            loan agreement constitutes a new consumer short-
                            term loan.
                            An individual with an ownership interest in a
                            Licensed Consumer Short-Term Lender business. This
INTERESTED OWNER:           includes but is not limited to direct owners,
                            indirect owners, subsidiaries, and affiliates of
                            the applicant and/or licensee. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-
                            12-2020)
 
2-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, maintain, or otherwise engage in business as a
Consumer Short-Term Lender without first having received a license to do so as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any individual desiring to operate, maintain, or engage in business as
a consumer short-term lender shall make their verified application in writing
to the council upon such forms as the council from time to time shall require
and shall file the same with the city clerk. The application set forth, in
addition to other information as may from time to time be required by the
council, the following information:
      1.   The name, street address, mailing address, facsimile number, and
telephone number of the applicant.
      2.   The business or trade name, street address, mailing address,
facsimile number, and telephone number of the Consumer Short-Term Lender.
      3.   The name, street address, mailing addresses, and telephone numbers
of all owners of the Consumer Short-Term Lender, and the nature and extent of
each person’s interest in the business.
      4.   A copy of a current, valid state license held by the Consumer Short-
Term Lender pursuant to Minn. Stat. § 47.601.
   B.   Each application shall also be accompanied by a certified check, money
order, cashier’s check, or cash in an amount equal to the annual license fee
for one year for the license for which application is being made.
   C.   The applicant shall be bound by all of the answers and information
furnished on the application present to the City of Moorhead and any
falsification of information requested on said application, or any other
information requested by the City in its course of investigation of the
applicants shall be grounds for denial of the license and, in addition thereto,
shall be grounds for revocation of the license if the license is approved and
issued prior to the discovery of such falsification. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-4: LICENSE TERM AND FEES:
   A.   A license issued for the operation of a business as a Consumer Short-
Term Lender shall be issued for a period of one year and expire on December 31.
   B.   The applicant shall pay in advance the fee as established by the City’s
fee schedule. Such license may thereafter be renewed annually by resolution of
the council upon payment in advance of an annual fee as established by the
City’s fee schedule. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-5: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSUMER SHORT-TERM LENDERS:
   A.   A Consumer Short-Term Lender shall make no more than two (2) Consumer
Short-Term Loans of $1,000, or less per person per calendar year.
   B.   A Consumer Short-Term Loan requires a minimum repayment within sixty
(60) days of loan origination.
   C.   A Consumer Short-Term Lender must furnish a copy of the written loan
contract to each borrower. The contract and disclosures must contain an
itemization of all fees and charges to be paid by the borrower.
   D.   For Consumer Short-Term Loans between $0.00 and $1,000.00, Consumer
Short-Term Lenders may charge up to a $25.00 fee, unless a different amount is
prescribed by State law.
   E.   For Consumer Short-Term Loans between $350.00 and $1,000, Consumer
Short-Term Lenders shall not charge more than thirty-three percent (33%) annual
interest on any Consumer Short-Term Loan, unless a different interest rate is
prescribed by State law.
   F.   A Consumer Short-Term Lender shall not extend repayment periods for
Consumer Short-Term Loans. If a Consumer Short-Term Lender grants additional
time to repay a Consumer Short-Term Loan, in no event shall the Consumer Short-
Term Lender charge an additional fee for the extension or increase the balance
owed above the original amount.
   G.   At no time shall there be more than four (4) Consumer Short-Term Loan
businesses located within the City of Moorhead.
   H.   A license issued by the City of Moorhead shall be binding upon all
Interested Owners of the Consumer Short-Term Lender business. An Interested
Owner is prohibited from obtaining an additional license for a separate
Consumer Short-Term Lender business. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-6: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS; ANNUAL REPORTS:
   A.   A Consumer Short-Term Lender must annually file a report with the City
Clerk that contains the following information for each calendar year:
      1.   The total number of Consumer Short-Term Loans issued per calendar
year;
      2.   The total dollar amount, over and above principal, collected on
Consumer Short-Term Loans;
      3.   The average annual percentage rate and range of annual percentage
rates for Consumer Short-Term Loans; and
      4.   The state or origin for borrowers. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-7: APPROVAL, DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The city clerk shall be empowered upon council approval to issue
licenses to a person to engage in business as a Consumer Short-Term Lender,
upon application being made thereof to the office of the city clerk.
   B.   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years old
      2.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation
      3.   The applicant has had a license to operate a business as a Consumer
Short-Term Lender suspended or revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months
of the date of application
      4.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information
      5.   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license
   C.   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must deny the
license.
   D.   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this article.
   E.   City council may suspend or revoke any license to operate a business as
a Consumer Short-Term Lender, as defined in this article in accordance with the
provisions of subsection
2-1-10A of this title. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A conviction of any persons holding a license to operate a business as
a Consumer Short-Term Lender, for a violation of this article or any crime
directly related to the occupation licensed as prescribed by Minn. Stat. §
47.601, including, but not limited to, Minn. Stat. §§ 601, subd. 6, shall be
grounds for immediate revocation of the license issued under the terms and
conditions of this article.
   B.   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of the Moorhead City Code. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
2-11-9: OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
This ordinance is intended to complement Minnesota Statute Section 47.601, as
amended from time to time. Nothing in this ordinance authorizes business by
Consumer Short-Term Lenders or the issuance of Consumer Short-Term Loans that
is regulated by other applicable laws or regulations. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-
2020)
2-11-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall take effect on January 1, 2021. (Ord. 2020-10, 10-12-2020)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Purpose
3-1-2: Incorporation Of State Law
3-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these rules is to establish standards for food and beverage
establishments within the city to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the city pursuant to the powers granted under
Minnesota statutes. (Ord. 2014-16, 9-8-2014)
3-1-2: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
All food and beverage establishments such as restaurants, bars, food stands,
mobile food units, as defined in Minnesota statutes chapter 157 as that chapter
may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, must be licensed by
the state of Minnesota or an agency delegated by the state to perform this
duty. The provisions of chapter 157, as amended from time to time, are hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and the city may enforce the same
as an ordinance of the city. (Ord. 2014-16, 9-8-2014)
CHAPTER 2
LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Incorporation Of State Law
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these rules is to establish standards for lodging establishments
within the city to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
people of the city pursuant to the powers granted under Minnesota statutes.
(Ord. 2014-16, 9-8-2014)
3-2-2: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
All lodging establishments such as defined in Minnesota statutes chapter 157 as
that chapter may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, must
be licensed by the state of Minnesota or an agency delegated by the state to
perform this duty. The provisions of chapter 157, as amended from time to time,
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference, and the city may
enforce the same as an ordinance of the city. (Ord. 2014-16, 9-8-2014)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Public Nuisances Prohibited
3-3-2: Public Nuisances Defined
3-3-3: Weeds And Lawn
3-3-4: Open Burning Restrictions
3-3-5: Outside Storage Of Firewood
3-3-6: Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited
3-3-7: Abatement Procedures
3-3-8: Penalty
3-3-9: Snow Storage In Residential Areas
3-3-10: Removal Of Snow And Ice
3-3-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to exist
any public nuisance within the city or within its police jurisdiction. (1967
Code §32.01)
3-3-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED:
   A.   General: A public nuisance is a thing, act, occupation, condition or
use of property which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      1.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public; or
      2.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property; or
      3.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      4.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any sidewalk, street, alley, highway,
navigable body of water or other public way.
   B.   Public Nuisances Affecting Health: The following acts, omissions,
places, conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be public
health nuisances, but shall not be construed to exclude other health nuisances
coming within the definition of subsection A of this section:
      1.   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink sold
or offered for sale to the public;
      2.   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise disposed
of in a sanitary manner within twenty four (24) hours after death;
      3.   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash, rubbish,
rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal, brush debris, or any
material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease carrying insects, rats or other
vermin may breed; (1967 Code §32.02)
      4.   All stagnant water on private property in which, if the conditions
were suitable, mosquitoes, flies or other insects could multiply, whether or
not such insects are doing so at the time, or whether or not the weather
conditions are conducive to such activity at that time; (Ord. 96-15, 9-3-1996)
      5.   Garbage cans which are not flytight;
      6.   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases, fly
ash or industrial dust within the city limits in such quantities as to endanger
the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause
substantial injury to property;
      7.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances;
      8.   Any use of property, substances or things within the city emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable
odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of
any appreciable number of persons within the city;
      9.   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public use;
      10.   Any privy vault or outhouse maintained after notice to remove has
expired.
   C.   Public Nuisances Offending Morals And Decency: The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be
public nuisances offending public morals and decency, but such enumeration
shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances offending public morals and
decency coming within the definition of subsection A of this Section:
      1.   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse or gambling;
      2.   All illegal gambling devices and slot machines;
      3.   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages are
sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without a
permit or license as provided for by this Code or by the Minnesota Statutes 1 ;
      4.   Any place or premises where the ordinances or State laws relating to
public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are openly, continuously,
repeatedly and intentionally violated;
      5.   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
State or other ordinances of the City.
   D.   Public Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety: The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby declared to be public
nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such enumeration shall not be
construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or safety coming
within the provisions of subsection A of this Section:
      1.   All buildings erected, repaired or altered within the fire limits of
the City in violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the City relating
to materials and manner of construction of buildings and structures within said
district.
      2.   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport
to be or may be mistaken as official traffic-control devices placed or
maintained upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing.
      3.   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions erected between
a height of two feet (2') and eight feet (8') within thirty feet (30') from
intersecting curb lines which prevent persons driving vehicles on public
streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
      4.   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet (8') above the surface thereof or less than twelve feet (12') above
the surface of a public street.
      5.   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of
the State and ordinances of the City.
      6.   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as
to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use.
      7.   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung
less than fifteen feet (15') above the surface of the street or ground.
      8.   All loud and discordant noises or vibrations of any kind.
      9.   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks, rights of way, or
crosswalks and all excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by
ordinance.
      10.   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk.
      11.   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and
other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a device for
opening from the inside by pushing only.
      12.   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which causes
large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the
streets or sidewalks.
      13.   Any abandoned above or underground tank whose capacity is in excess
of one thousand one hundred (1,100) gallons.
      14.   Repeated or continuous violations of the ordinances of the city or
the laws of the state. (1967 Code §32.02)
      15.   Any use of water from fire hydrants in the city limits of Moorhead,
other than by fire department, without first obtaining a permit from the
Moorhead public service commission, or if person or entity has obtained permit,
not following the rules and procedures set by Moorhead public service
commission relating to such permits.
      16.   Any living or dead tree or branch thereof within city boundaries
located on private property that constitutes a hazard to life, property, or
utility systems. A hazard tree or branch shall be a tree with structural
defects likely to cause failure of all or part of the tree which would strike a
target. A target can be a vehicle, building, utility system, or a place where
people gather such as a yard space.
   E.   Other Public Nuisances: It is hereby determined that dilapidated fences
and the storage or accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, building materials and
demolition materials, upon any private property within the city tends to result
in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods, the spread of vermin and disease,
and is contrary to the public peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
community.
      1.   Definitions: Definitions for purposes of this subsection E are as
follows:
    BUILDING MATERIALS: Shall include, without limitation, lumber, bricks,
concrete, cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electric wiring or equipment,
heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws
or any other materials used in constructing any structure.
   DEMOLITION MATERIALS: Shall include, without limitation, debris resulting
from the demolition of buildings, such as concrete, stone, plaster, bricks,
concrete blocks and other materials that are a result of the demolition and
construction operations.
   DILAPIDATED FENCES: Any fence, in whole or in part, which has fallen on the
ground, or because of decay or disrepair has deteriorated to such an extent
that it presents a danger of imminent collapse on its own, or as a result of
normal weather conditions.
   JUNK: Shall include, without limitation, parts of machinery or motor
vehicles, unused furniture, stoves, refrigerators or other appliances, remnants
of wood, metal or any other cast off material of any kind, whether or not the
same could be put to any reasonable use.
   TRASH AND RUBBISH: Shall include any and all forms of debris not herein
otherwise classified.
      2.   Unlawful To Accumulate Junk, Trash And Rubbish: It shall be a
nuisance and an offense for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of trash, rubbish or junk on any private property within the city,
except within a completely enclosed building or upon the business premises of a
properly zoned business and which materials which would otherwise constitute
junk, trash or rubbish are materials that are used in the ordinary course of
that business.
      3.   Unlawful To Dismantle Automobiles Or Machinery; Exception: It shall
be a nuisance and an offense for any person to dismantle, cut up, remove parts
from or otherwise disassemble an automobile, whether or not the same be a junk
automobile, abandoned vehicle or otherwise, or any appliance or machinery, or
store such parts, except in a completely enclosed building or upon the business
premises of a properly zoned business and which disassembling and storing of
parts are done in the ordinary course of that business.
      4.   Unlawful To Store Building Materials Or Demolition Materials;
Exception: It shall be a nuisance and an offense for any person to store or
permit the storage or accumulation of building materials or demolition
materials on any private property, except in a completely enclosed building or
except where such building materials are part of the stock and trade of a
business located on said property, or except when such materials are being used
in the construction of a structure on the property in accordance with a valid
building permit issued by the city, and unless that construction is completed
within a reasonable period of time.
      5.   Unlawful To Permit Dilapidated Fences: It shall be a nuisance and
offense for any person to allow or permit a dilapidated fence on their
property.
   F.   State Defined Nuisances: Any nuisance so defined by the Minnesota
Statutes 1  or by the common law of the State is also a nuisance under this
chapter. (Ord. 96-15, 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. 2007-17, 8-20-2007; Ord. 2025-03, 4-
28-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 3 of this Code; also M.S.A. ch. 340.
1 1. MSA §561.01, as such statute may be from time to time amended, supplemented
  or replaced.
3-3-3: WEEDS AND LAWN:
   A.   Removal: Every owner or occupant of land or, if the land is unoccupied,
the owner or resident agent, shall cut down, destroy or eradicate all weeds as
defined by the laws of the State and grasses standing or growing upon such
lands, in such manner and at such times as may be directed or ordered by a City
authorized weed inspector or designee. Any land, with the lesser of thirty
percent (30%) or more of its turf grass and weed growth above the height of
eight inches (8"), or with an area of two hundred fifty (250) contiguous square
feet or greater of weeds or grass exceeding the height of eight inches (8"), or
with weeds as defined by the laws of the State, will be considered in violation
of this section unless the property is operating under an approved Natural Lawn
as described in subsection D of this section. Further, all land must remain
debris free, such that it does not become a dumping site for grass clippings,
garbage, dirt and any other substances that would directly alter the normal
condition of the land and that would make adequate maintenance of said land
difficult. Any violation of the aforementioned conditions and following
issuance of a citation for said violation, the City may cause the land,
including private property and adjoining public boulevard area, to be cleared,
cultivated and/or leveled to eradicate the improper condition of the land, with
the expense for doing so becoming the responsibility of the landowner.
   B.   Establishment: Owners of property shall establish turf grass lawns or
other approved landscaping within (1) one year (365 days) of the date a Final
Building Inspection is approved by the City for a property.
   C.   Weed Inspector: A City authorized weed inspector(s) or designee shall
examine the lands, highways and public grounds for the purpose of ascertaining
if the provisions of this section are being complied with, and if it is found
that such is not the case, shall issue a notice in writing on a form to be
prescribed by the City Manager to the owner(s) or occupant(s) requiring them to
cut down, destroy or eradicate, all noxious weeds which are growing or in
danger of going to seed as follows:
      1.   Lots with structures (building or parking) shall have five (5) days
for the first violation in a calendar year and twenty-four (24) hours for
additional violations within a calendar year.
      2.   Vacant lots shall have ten (10) days.
If the owner is a nonresident of the City, then the occupant shall be deemed to
be the owner's agent to receive any such notice.
   D.   Weed Cutting: Whenever any person(s) fails to comply with the notice
served upon them, the City authorized weed inspector or designee shall cause
the same to be cut down, destroyed, cleared, leveled, cultivated and/or
eradicated at the expense of the owner of the property. The expense of
maintenance of said land and any related administrative penalty as outlined
within the City Fee Schedule shall be billed directly to the landowner. Said
notice shall be served by depositing a copy in the Post Office addressed to the
owner at the address shown on the Real Estate Tax rolls of the County. If
timely payment is not forthcoming from the landowner, the bill shall be
assessed against the property as provided by law.
   E.   Natural Lawns:
      1.   Purpose: The City of Moorhead finds the installation and management
of Natural Lawns is beneficial to the city's environment and residents and
finds Natural Lawns serve to further adopted goals by enhancing stormwater
retention, reducing pollution, increasing water quality, improving biodiversity
and native habitat for pollinators and wildlife.
      2.   Any owner or occupant of land within the City may have a natural
lawn or rain garden, which consists of planned, intentional, and maintained
plantings of native or non-native grasses (not including turf grass),
wildflowers, forbs, ferns, or shrubs where the grasses and other growth may
exceed eight inches (8") in height, provided that such plantings shall be
maintained so as not to present hazards to adjoining properties, persons or
vehicles traveling on the public ways, structures on such affected land, shall
be maintained as to enhance the appearance of the property on which located and
other public benefits as described in Section D1.
      3.   Definitions:
 
                 A lawn consisting of plantings other than turf-grass lawn
NATURAL LAWN:    (such as wildflowers, native or non-native grasses, forbs,
                 ferns and shrubs).
                 Annual, biennial and perennial plants which are deemed to be
                 injurious to public health, environment, public roads, crops,
NOXIOUS WEED:    livestock and other property as specified by state or local
                 laws, regulations, rules and guidelines. This includes any
                 plant as described in Minnesota Statutes, Section 18.77, Subd.
                 8.
                 A stormwater treatment practice consisting of a landscaped
                 depressed area that can accept stormwater runoff from
RAIN GARDEN:     impervious surfaces and allow it to infiltrate into and/or
                 through the soil below as defined by the Minnesota Pollution
                 Control Agency and/or the Environmental Protection Agency.
                 A lawn comprised mostly of grasses commonly used in
TURF-GRASS LAWN: residential lawns, such as Kentucky bluegrass, that forms an
                 even turf when mowed and maintained.
 
      4.   Compliance Requirements:
         a.   No Natural Lawn may exceed twenty-four inches (24") in height
within five feet (5') of a driveway or alleyway, within thirty feet (30') of an
intersection or within three feet (3') of a fire hydrant.
         b.   A Natural Lawn must be maintained with no overhang or
encroachment onto the sidewalk, curb, street or adjacent property.
         c.   Natural lawns do not include turf-grass lawns left unattended.
         d.   Any Natural Lawn within the City shall be maintained so as to not
include unintended vegetation including any noxious or invasive weed or plant.
         e.   Natural lawns and rain gardens shall not be planted within the
boulevard or right-of-way without first obtaining a permit.
         f.   Any property owner that plants a Natural Lawn is responsible for
requesting utility location and ensuring that no planting area interferes with
utilities. Repairs to Natural Lawn areas that are damaged as a result of a
utility accessing or performing work within easement areas on a property are
the responsibility of the property owner and are not the responsibility of any
utility company, subcontractor of a utility company or other entity that has
the right to access a utility and/or easement on a property. This section
applies to existing utilities and authorized new utility installations.
         g.   Natural lawns may not be planted on a levee or other flood
protection infrastructure area or within twenty feet (20') of such flood
protection infrastructure unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      5.   The city may order the cutting of a natural lawn at any time when it
is determined that the growth does not meet the standards described within this
section.
      6.   The city shall have the right to further enforce the terms of this
section in the same manner as subsections A, B, C and D of this section upon
such notice to the owner or occupant of the property as required by those
subsections, with the cost of enforcement of the order contained in said notice
to be borne by the owner of the property. (Ord. 2022-22, 10-28-2022)
3-3-4: OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   General: Minnesota rules parts 7005.0700 to 7005.0820, inclusive,
relating to open burning and the issuance of permits for open burning, as such
rules may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, are hereby
adopted by reference and are made a part of this code as if fully set forth
herein. The city fire department shall accept applications and issue open
burning permits within the city in accordance with the terms and conditions of
Minnesota rules part 7005.0760, as such rules may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced.
   B.   Permitting The Open Burning Of Dried Leaves In Oakport Subdivision: In
accordance with Minnesota statutes 116.082, open burning of leaves shall be
permitted between the period of September 15 and December 1. Pursuant to
subsection A, "General", of this section, applicants will have to obtain an
open burning permit prior to burning dry leaves. Limits and conditions shall be
enforced to minimize air pollution and fire danger and any other hazards or
nuisance conditions. If the fire department deems that these conditions present
a hazard and/or nuisance, the permit can be retracted. No open burning of
leaves shall take place during an air pollution alert, warning, or emergency
declared by the city of Moorhead fire department. (Ord. 2016-06, 2-22-2016)
3-3-5: OUTSIDE STORAGE OF FIREWOOD:
   A.   Purpose: In the interest of promoting public health, safety and
welfare, the city does hereby enact this section governing and regulating the
outside storage of firewood within the city.
   B.   Storage Restrictions:
      1.   Firewood shall be stored in a compact and orderly fashion so as not
to constitute a hazard to adjacent buildings or property and to endanger the
public health; all firewood shall be stored or stacked up off the surface of
the ground.
      2.   Stacks of wood in the open shall not exceed six feet (6') in height
and shall not be located less than five feet (5') from a boundary line.
      3.   There shall be no front yard or front lot storage of firewood in the
city, provided that this subsection shall not prevent businesses that sell
firewood from displaying firewood to the public in a manner that is deemed
necessary for said business purposes, as long as said storage and display does
not violate any of the other provisions of this section. (Ord. 702, 12-3-1979)
3-3-6: MAINTAINING NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
No owner or occupant of any premises shall permit any nuisance to be or remain
in or upon the premises or between the same and the center of the adjoining
street. (Ord. 187; amd. 1967 Code §32.03)
3-3-7: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Existence Of Nuisance: The existence of any nuisance shall be reported
to the city, or city officials may institute a nuisance action based on their
own observations. (Ord. 94-14, 7-5-1994)
   B.   Notice To Abate Nuisance And Penalties: Authorized city personnel shall
give notice to any person maintaining a nuisance to abate such nuisance
forthwith or within a designated time, and if the owner or occupant of the
premises on which such nuisance shall be situated shall neglect or refuse to
remove the same for the space of twenty four (24) hours after such notice is
given or within the time specified therein, the owner shall, upon conviction,
be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code, and be liable for the expense of removing such nuisance and
the costs of prosecution. (Ord. 187; amd. 1967 Code §32.05)
   C.   Assessing Cost Of Abatement: Whenever any person fails to abate a
nuisance after notice by the city to do so, or whenever the nature of a
nuisance requires its immediate abatement, the city may abate the nuisance, and
the cost thereof shall be assessed against the property on which the nuisance
was located and certified as other taxes are certified. (1967 Code §32.06)
   D.   Subsequent Violation: If a person or entity has been given one notice
to abate a nuisance and, subsequently, within a twelve (12) month period from
the date of the first notice a second violation of this chapter of the same
type occurs, the city may elect to commence an administrative violation
procedure or a criminal violation procedure without giving the violator a
period to correct the violation. Provided, however, the city may not abate the
violation without giving the violator an opportunity to correct the violation
pursuant to subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2004-18, 6-21-2004)
3-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be charged with a
criminal misdemeanor, or infraction, or, alternatively, may be charged with an
administrative violation pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2004-18, 6-21-2004)
3-3-9: SNOW STORAGE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
   A.   No Snow To Be Deposited On Other Property: No person or business
involved in removing or clearing snow off any private or public property shall
cause any of the snow so removed to be deposited upon another piece of property
which is a residential lot within the city, with or without the permission of
the owner of the property.
   B.   Residential Lots: For purposes of this section, residential lots shall
include all lots within the city described in title 10, chapter 12 of this
code.
   C.   Normal Snow Removal: The prohibitions set forth in this section do not
include normal snow removal on private or public property which may
incidentally result in snow being deposited or blown onto a neighboring
residential lot.
   D.   Separate Offense: It shall be a separate offense if a person violating
a provision of this section does not remove the snow deposited within forty
eight (48) hours of receiving written notice from the city to do so. Each day
thereafter in which the snow is not removed shall be a separate offense.
   E.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense or an administrative
penalty pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016)
3-3-10: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   From Sidewalks:
      1.   Duty Of Owner: The owner of every building fronting upon any street
or avenue, and the owner of any unoccupied lot fronting upon any street, shall
be held responsible to ensure the public sidewalk and sidewalk crosswalk
approach is cleared of snow and ice by nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. of each day,
and cause the same to be kept clear of snow and ice.
      2.   City Removal: In all cases where snow and ice are not removed from
sidewalks within the time and in the manner as provided in this section, it may
be removed by authorized city personnel, and the necessary expenses thereof,
along with an administrative fee to be set by resolution of the city council,
shall be chargeable against the abutting property. If timely payment is not
forthcoming from the landowner, the bill shall be assessed against the property
as provided by law.
   B.   Depositing Snow On Streets Or Sidewalks: No person engaged to move,
blow or plow snow upon or off of any private property or city right of way
within the city shall cause or permit any of the snow so removed, blown or
plowed to be deposited upon any street or sidewalk within the city. The
prohibition contained herein shall apply to the owners and occupants of any
such property, their agents, employees or independent contractors. The owner of
the premises or the persons requesting the snow to be removed or the persons
who are actually removing the snow shall make suitable arrangements to deposit
the removed snow in some place other than upon the city streets or sidewalks,
and snow shall not be piled so as to interfere with the vision of motorists
approaching any intersection. Other than from adjacent sidewalks and driveways,
no snow shall be placed upon the boulevard.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) or an administrative penalty pursuant to
section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Disposal In Containers Required
3-4-3: Collection And Disposal Of Solid Waste
3-4-4: Costs Of Collection
3-4-5: Permit For Solid Waste Haulers
3-4-6: Disposal Sites
3-4-7: Prohibited Deposits
3-4-8: Penalty For Violation
3-4-9: Recyclable Material
3-4-10: Composting
3-4-11: Yard Waste
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A building other than a residential dwelling, "multiple
dwelling", "condominium" or "common interest community" as defined in this
section.
COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITIES: A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by
the residents and subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Common Interest
Ownership Act, Minnesota Statutes chapter 515B. The entire structure and real
property is under common ownership as contrasted to a condominium dwelling
where individual units are under separate individual occupant ownership.
CONDOMINIUM: A multiple dwelling or development containing individually owned
dwelling units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which
dwelling or development is subject to the provisions of the Minnesota
Condominium Law, Minnesota Statutes section 515.A.1-101 to 515.A.4-118.
GARBAGE: All organic refuse from the preparation of food, and decayed or
spoiled animal or vegetable food from any source.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: A building designed with three (3) or more dwelling units
exclusively for occupancy by three (3) or more families living independently of
each other, but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits. A two-family
dwelling (duplex) and separate rooming unit(s) shall be considered and
classified as a multiple-family dwelling.
RESIDENTIAL NO-SORT RECYCLING: Disposal of all paper fibers, plastics, metals,
glass commingled into one container. Materials are separated and baled at a
material recovery facility (MRF).
RUBBISH: All combustible inorganic refuse matter such as papers, sweepings,
rags, grass, wood shavings or from any other source, etc., originating from
ordinary household or business operations.
SINGLE DWELLING: A building designed with one dwelling unit exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
WASTE MATERIAL: All noncombustible inorganic refuse matter such as ashes,
cinders, sand, earth, metal, concrete, building materials, tires and similar
matter, originating from the ordinary household or business operations or from
any other source that shall not include body wastes of human or animal origin.
(Ord. 2017-08, 7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 2017-14, 9-25-2017)
3-4-2: DISPOSAL IN CONTAINERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage,
rubbish or waste material in any park, street, alley or any other property
within the City unless such refuse is deposited in containers, the type, size
and location of which are herein provided. Notwithstanding the requirements of
this section, the City reserves the right to vary the type, size and location
of containers required herein whenever the Public Works Department determines
its ability to sanitarily or conveniently collect and dispose of garbage,
rubbish or waste material would be impaired, whenever the City determines a
nuisance condition exists, or whenever the Public Works Department determines
that it would be in the public interest to do so.
   B.   Dwellings: The City will provide each single dwelling home with one
garbage tote. Only totes provided by the City may be used for household
garbage. Tote swaps for a larger or smaller tote, as requested by the resident,
will be conducted in a timely manner for a reasonable fee, as determined by
resolution of the City Council. The volume of the tote dictates the monthly
charge, as determined by the City Council as described in subsection
3-4-4 A of this chapter. Extra garbage that does not fit into the tote will be
collected for an additional charge at a reasonable rate, as determined by
resolution of the City Council. Additionally, the City will provide each single
dwelling home a blue tote for no-sort recycling. Curbside no-sort recycling
service will be provided for an additional charge at a reasonable rate, as
determined by resolution of the City Council. All households will pay the
monthly recycling fee. Garbage and recycling totes must be stored within the
principal structure of the dwelling, or, for exterior storage, placed neatly
against the structure with lids fully closed, or stored in such a manner as to:
1) not create a nuisance condition, and 2) comply with all applicable setback
requirements and easements. Multiple dwelling housing with individual driveways
(such as duplexes and townhomes) will be provided garbage and recycling totes
and will receive weekly garbage and recycling service. The garbage and
recycling fee structure is noted on the City of Moorhead website. Upon service,
extra garbage lying outside of the container will be reasonably charged as an
extra fee, as determined by resolution of the City Council. Extra garbage such
as televisions, tires and demolition material will not be serviced by the City.
Multiple dwelling homes that receive a garbage and recycling tote from the City
shall ensure totes are stored within the principal structure of the dwelling,
or, for exterior storage, placed neatly against the structure with lids fully
closed, or stored in such a manner as to: 1) not create a nuisance condition,
and 2) comply with all applicable setback requirements and easements.
   C.   Multiple Dwellings Other Than Condominiums And Common Interest
Communities: The City shall provide and rent to owners and operators of
multiple dwellings within the City, other than a condominium or common interest
community, containers for the purpose of disposal of garbage, rubbish or waste
material. Said containers shall be the sole and exclusive means for owners and
operators of multiple dwellings within the City to dispose of garbage, rubbish
or waste material. The containers will not be allowed on streets or boulevards.
The containers shall be maintained and kept clean in accordance with the City’s
public health and sanitary regulations in this title as such regulations may be
from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced. The containers shall be
located so that they may be sanitarily and conveniently collected by City
sanitation vehicles. The containers shall be further located so as to: 1) not
create a nuisance condition, 2) be out of sight from eye level view from the
public right-of-way by locating the containers in the rear of the multiple
dwelling, and 3) comply with all applicable setback requirements and easements.
The containers may be required to be kept and stored on a concrete or asphalt
surface and fully screened from view of adjacent properties and the public
right-of-way by a fence or wall of at least six feet (6') in height and a
minimum opaqueness of eighty percent (80%) whenever the Public Works Department
finds good cause exists to impose such requirements to protect the general
health, safety and welfare of the public. However, the Public Works Department
may grant exceptions to the above requirements, as well as exception to the
zoning regulations relating to placement of dumpsters where existing physical
conditions do not make compliance practical.
   D.   Condominiums And Common Interest Communities: Subject to approval by
the Department of Public Works, owners and operators of condominiums or common
interest communities within the City shall have the option upon request of the
condominium or common interest community association to either: 1) rent the
containers provided by the City for the disposal of garbage, rubbish or waste
material in accordance with subsection C of this section and comply with the
terms contained therein, or 2) to provide themselves with containers to receive
and deposit for collection in accordance with subsection B of this section and
to comply with the terms therein.
   E.   Business Establishments: The City shall provide and rent to owners and
operators of restaurants, stores and business establishments within the City
containers for the purpose of disposing of garbage, rubbish or waste material.
Said containers shall be the sole and exclusive means for owners and operators
of restaurants, stores or business establishments, within the City to dispose
of garbage, rubbish or waste material except as may be otherwise permitted by
the Department of Public Works. The containers will not be allowed on streets
or boulevards. The containers shall be maintained and kept clean in accordance
with the City’s public health and sanitation regulations in this title as such
regulations may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced. The
containers shall be located so that they may be sanitarily and conveniently
collected in City sanitation vehicles. The containers shall be located so as
to: 1) not create a nuisance condition, 2) be out of sight from eye level view
from the public right-of-way by locating the containers in the rear of the
restaurant, store or business establishment, and 3) comply with all applicable
setback requirements and easements. The containers may be required to be kept
and stored on a concrete or asphalt surface and fully screened from view of
adjacent properties and the public right-of-way by a fence or wall of at least
six feet (6') in height and a minimum opaqueness of eighty percent (80%)
whenever the Public Works Department finds good cause exists to impose such
requirements to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the public.
   F.   Institutions Of Higher Learning: Four (4) year institutions of higher
learning shall be permitted to provide collection services of garbage, rubbish
and waste material utilizing the institution’s equipment and personnel. (Ord.
2017-08, 7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 2017-14, 9-25-2017; Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
3-4-3: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
The City shall hereafter provide for the collection and disposal of garbage,
rubbish, waste material, yard waste and recyclable material as deposited and
stored as provided herein. Such refuse shall be collected from private
dwellings as described in subsections 3-4-2B, C and D of this chapter and from
business establishments as described in subsections 3-4-2E and F of this
chapter as deemed necessary. The City shall further provide for the
transportation and disposition of said refuse by such means and in such manner
as to ensure the protection of public health and to avoid the establishment of
a public nuisance and to render safe, sanitary service to all residences or
businesses requiring such service.
Except as specifically permitted in this chapter, no person or firm shall
engage in collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish, waste material, yard
waste or recyclable material in the City other than as authorized by the Public
Works Director to assist with collection during times of natural disaster or
emergencies as declared by the Mayor. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996)
3-4-4: COSTS OF COLLECTION:
   A.   The cost of the collection and disposal of refuse from private
dwellings, as described in subsections 3-4-2B, C and D of this chapter, shall
become a charge against the occupant of each dwelling, to be payable monthly
together with other public service charges as defined by the City. A fair and
reasonable charge for the collection of the contents of the containers at each
regular collection time from each dwelling, single-family or apartment shall be
determined by the Council.
   B.   The cost of the collection and disposal of refuse from business
establishments, as described in subsections 3-4-2E and F of this chapter, shall
become a charge against each and every establishment serviced, and a fair and
just rate for each establishment shall be approved by the Council. This rate is
to be determined by the type and amount of refuse to be collected from the
establishment and to be payable monthly to the City. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996)
3-4-5: PERMIT FOR SOLID WASTE HAULERS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Established: Any rules and regulations necessary
to regulate special permit holders may be from time to time promulgated by the
Council, and failure of the special permit holder to abide by such rules and
regulations shall be just cause for the denial, suspension or revocation of the
special permit. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996)
   B.   Special Permit Required; Fee; Bond: The City Council shall have the
authority to issue a limited license for the sole purpose of hauling paper,
loose cardboard, baled cardboard materials, iron and metal material, recyclable
materials or such other specific materials that the Council may from time to
time approve. The limited license may be granted only by the Council upon
payment of a fee as established by the City's fee schedule to the City. Failure
of the licensee to abide by such rules and regulations to be issued by the City
shall be cause for the revocation of the license. A special license approved
herein shall be issued for a period of one year and will be renewable annually
on the payment of an additional license fee as established by the City's fee
schedule for each succeeding year the Council approves the extension of the
license. In the event the license is for a period of less than a year, the
entire fee for that year shall be nonrefundable. The licensee, when authorized
by the City, may provide roll- off container service. In addition, any person
or entity having such a special license shall be required on a monthly basis to
file a report with the Director of Public Works for the City setting forth the
type of material hauled for that month, the actual quantity of each type of
material by tonnage weight and where the material was disposed. These reports
shall be due on or before the fifteenth day of the following month. The City
Council shall also have the authority to require the license holders under this
section to file a bond or similar security acceptable to the City in an amount
set by the City by resolution. Provided, however, that if the license holder in
question has a similar bond or financial security filed with the County or
State in an amount equal to or greater than the amount set by the City by
resolution, no City bond shall be required. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996; amd. Ord.
2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
3-4-6: DISPOSAL SITES:
No garbage, rubbish, waste material, yard waste or recyclable material
collected in the City shall be deposited in any place except such as shall be
designated by the Council. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996)
3-4-7: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited any
garbage, rubbish, waste material, yard waste or recyclable material upon any
street, alley, gutter, boulevard, park or other public place, or to throw or
deposit the same in or upon any street, alley, gutter, boulevard, park or other
public place, or in or upon any vacant lot or back yard; and it shall be
unlawful to have, store, deposit or keep such material where animals shall have
access thereto or feed thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
any garbage, rubbish, or waste material in any container designated for use by
another. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-1996)
3-4-8: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or violating any
rule or regulation promulgated by the Council and duly published, shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this chapter or any rule or
regulation promulgated hereunder, as aforesaid, continues shall be considered a
separate offense punishable upon conviction as aforesaid. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-
1996)
3-4-9: RECYCLABLE MATERIAL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to reduce the amount of waste
generated in the City by voluntarily disposing of recyclable materials either
through no-sort recycling methods or through separation of recyclable
materials.
   B.   No-Sort Recycling: Single dwelling housing and multidwelling housing
units are authorized to participate in no-sort recycling unless otherwise
authorized by the Public Works Director.
The City will provide totes to all single dwelling homes and containers or
dumpsters for multiple dwelling homes. Damaged totes, containers, and dumpsters
will be replaced by the City in a timely manner.
Recyclables must fit inside the recycling container; additional recyclables
will not be picked up by the City. The resident can either wait until the next
curb- side collection or drop-off recyclables at one of the City’s recycling
drop-off locations.
   C.   Commingled: Residents of single dwellings, multi-dwellings, or other
buildings as authorized by the Director of Public Works, may participate in the
City’s plan of no-sort recycling. The City Council will by resolution designate
recyclable materials which may be commingled from the normal garbage, rubbish
and waste material collection if the materials have not been contaminated (a
detailed recyclables list and a copy of the resolution is located on the City
of Moorhead website).
   D.   Collection Of Commingled Materials: The collection of commingled
materials shall be at such regular times as set by the City. Materials shall
only be collected if set out in special recycling containers provided by the
City and commingled as described in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Recycling Drop-Off Sites: Various recycling drop-off sites are located
throughout the City. Residents are also authorized to drop-off recyclables at
these locations; however, the material must be separated and placed in the
appropriately marked dumpster. Drop-off locations are serviced through a
contract agreement with a private business authorized by the City Council. The
following materials may be separated from the normal garbage, rubbish and waste
material collection if the materials have not been contaminated (a detailed
recyclables list is located on the City of Moorhead website):
      1.   Newspaper: Includes inserts, shoppers, or other publications printed
on newspaper stock.
      2.   Magazines: Glossy publications less than one inch (1") thick.
      3.   Rinsed clear and colored glass bottles, jugs, or jars; glass does
not need to be separated from color.
      4.   Aluminum, tin and steel cans.
      5.   #1-7 plastics without rings, caps or lids.
      6.   Flattened corrugated cardboard.
   F.   Rates: Any additional fee or rate, or discount, if any, for garbage
collection for persons who participate in the collection of recyclable
materials under this section shall be as established by the City’s fee
schedule.
   G.   Anti-Scavenging Clause: Ownership of separated materials set out for
collection by the City shall be vested in the City. It shall be unlawful and an
offense against this section for any person, firm or corporation to pick up
separated materials for his/her own use, except the owner, lessee or occupant
of a residential dwelling may take back materials set out at that particular
dwelling.
   H.   Corrugated Cardboard Recycling At Business Establishments: Business
establishments may participate in the City’s Corrugated Cardboard Recycling
Program. Business establishments shall contract directly with a private waste
hauler/recycler to provide collection and disposal of corrugated cardboard.
The containers to be used for the Corrugated Cardboard Recycling Program at
business establishments shall be rented from the City by private waste haulers/
recyclers. Said containers shall be the only containers used by owners or
operators of business establishments within the City to dispose of corrugated
cardboard recyclable materials. The containers will not be allowed on streets
or boulevards. The containers shall be maintained and kept clean in accordance
with the City’s public health and sanitary regulations in this title as such
regulations may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced. The
containers shall be located so as to: 1) not create a nuisance condition, 2) be
out of the sight from eye level view from the public right-of-way and 3) comply
with all applicable setback requirements and easements.
The City will invoice the private waste hauler/recycler for rental of the
corrugated cardboard container. Any charges or details concerning collection
and disposal or rebates for corrugated cardboard materials shall be determined
between the business establishment and private waste hauler/recycler.
All monthly reports as set forth in subsection
3-4-5B of this chapter will be required of the private waste hauler/recycler.
(Ord. 2017-08, 7-10-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 3-13-2023)
3-4-10: COMPOSTING:
   A.   Composting, for purposes of this section, is any aboveground microbial
process that converts plant materials to organic soil amendment or mulch.
   B.   Composting is permitted in residential zoned districts, provided the
following regulations are complied with:
      1.   Composting shall be conducted within an enclosed container not
exceeding two hundred fifty (250) cubic feet and four feet (4') in height. The
container shall be of durable material, such as wood, plastic, fiberglass or
metal fencing material.
      2.   The compost container shall be located in the rear yard and placed
no closer than twenty feet (20') to any habitable building and twenty feet
(20') from the street on a corner lot.
      3.   A compost area may consist of, but is not limited to, yard waste,
fruit or vegetable waste, garden waste, eggshells, coffee grounds, soil,
fertilizer, flowers, or small shrub trimmings or twigs (1/4 inch diameter
maximum) generated from the site on which the compost site is located. However,
in no case are the following materials permitted in compost areas: meat, bones,
grease, whole eggs, dairy products, and human or pet feces.
      4.   A compost area must not be established or maintained in a manner
such that it creates a nuisance to adjacent properties. As part of regular
maintenance, the compost area must periodically be mixed to promote efficient
biological deterioration.
   C.   The City is authorized to maintain a composting site on City-owned
property for the purpose of complying with the provisions of State law that
provide that no yard waste may be disposed of in landfills. (Ord. 96-18, 10-21-
1996)
3-4-11: YARD WASTE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to reduce the amount of waste
generated in the City by a separate collection of yard waste.
   B.   Definition: Yard waste for purposes of this section shall include grass
clippings, leaves and garden waste.
   C.   Collection Of Yard Waste: Yard waste will be collected and placed out
for collection as provided by resolution of the City Council.
   D.   Rates: Any additional fee or rate, if any, for garbage collection for
persons who participate in the collection of yard waste under this section
shall be set by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 2017-08, 7-10-2017; amd.
Ord. 2023-02, 3-13-2023)
CHAPTER 5
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND RECOVERY OF CLEANUP COSTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Authority of Fire Department to Cleanup, Remove and/or Abate Hazardous
Substances
3-5-3: Responsibility for Cleanup Costs
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
COSTS: Those necessary and reasonable costs incurred by the City in connection
with investigating, mitigating, minimizing, removing or abating discharges of
hazardous substances, including but not limited to the following: actual labor
costs of City personnel or its authorized agents; cost of equipment operation
and rental; and cost of expendable items, including but not limited to
firefighting foam, chemicals, extinguishing agents, absorbent material, sand,
recovery drums, acid suits, acid gloves, goggles and protective clothing.
DISCHARGE: Any intentional or unintentional action or omission resulting in the
releasing, spilling, pouring, pumping, emitting, emptying or dumping of a
hazardous substance upon public or private property located within the City
limits of the City.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Any substances or materials in a quantity or form which,
in the determination of the Fire Chief of the City or his authorized designee,
poses an unreasonable and eminent risk to the life, health, safety or welfare
of persons or property within the City and shall include but not be limited to
those hazardous substances listed in the "N.F.P.A. Guide on Hazardous
Materials" or the United States Environmental Protection Agency's list of
extremely hazardous substances.
PERSON: One or more individuals, partnerships, corporations, joint ventures,
associations or any other entities or combination thereof. (Ord. 92-21, 10-5-
92)
3-5-2: AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT TO CLEANUP, REMOVE AND/OR ABATE HAZARDOUS
SUBSTANCES:
The Fire Department of the City is hereby authorized to take such steps as are
necessary to investigate, mitigate, minimize, cleanup, remove or abate the
effects of any hazardous substances discharged upon or into public or private
property or facilities located within the City limits of the City. When engaged
in the investigation, mitigation, minimization, cleanup, removal or abatement
of the effects of the unauthorized discharge of hazardous substances, the Fire
Department of the City shall keep a detailed record of the costs attributable
thereto. However, the Fire Department of the City shall not include any costs
(nor shall any individual be responsible for any costs pursuant to this
Chapter) incurred for actual fire suppression services which are normally or
usually provided by the City Fire Department or its authorized agents. (Ord.
92-21, 10-5-92)
3-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
Any person or persons responsible for causing or allowing an unauthorized
discharge of hazardous substances that requires action of the Fire Department
of the City or its authorized agents, in order to protect the public health,
safety or welfare, shall be jointly and severally liable to the City for the
costs incurred by the City in investigating, mitigating, minimizing, cleaning
up, removing and/or abating any such discharge.
   A.   A responsible person, for purposes of this Section, is any person who:
      1.   Owns or operates a facility or property upon or from which a
hazardous substance was discharged:
         a.   When the hazardous material was placed or came to be located in
or on the facility or property;
         b.   When the hazardous material was located in or on the facility,
but before the discharge of the hazardous substance; or
         c.   During the time of the discharge at the facility or property.
      2.   Owned or possessed the hazardous substance and arranged by contract,
agreement or otherwise for the disposal, treatment or transport of the
hazardous substance.
      3.   Knew or reasonably should have known that the substance the person
accepted for transport, treatment or disposal contained a hazardous substance
and either selected the facility to which it was transported or treated or
disposed of in a manner contrary to law.
   B.   When a person who is responsible for the discharge is an employee who
is acting within the scope of employment:
      1.   The employee is a responsible person only if the employee's conduct
with respect to the hazardous substance was negligent under circumstances in
which the employee knew or should have known that the substance was hazardous
and that the conduct, if negligent, could result in a discharge of the
substance.
      2.   The employer is a responsible person regardless of the degree of
care exercised by the employee.
   C.   Any person or persons responsible for causing or allowing an
unauthorized discharge of hazardous substances shall reimburse the City for the
full amount of all costs, as defined herein, associated with the investigating,
mitigating, minimizing, cleaning up, removing and/or abating any such discharge
no later than thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized bill for such costs
from the City.
   D.   Any person or persons responsible for causing or allowing an
unauthorized discharge of hazardous substances and who fails to properly
reimburse the City within the time period set forth in this Section shall be
subject to a penalty payment equal to one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the
total amount of the bill for each month that the bill for such costs remains
unpaid.
   E.   The remedies provided for in this Section shall be supplemental to and
in addition to all other available remedies at law and equity. (Ord. 92-21, 10-
5-92)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-22, 9-17-2007)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License And Registration Requirements
3-7-3: Collar And Tags
3-7-4: Limitation On Number Of Dogs And Cats
3-7-5: Running At Large
3-7-6: Impounding Dogs, Cats, And Other Animals At Large
3-7-7: Muzzling Requirements
3-7-8: Suspicion Of Rabies, Notice
3-7-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-7-10: Animals Prohibited In City
3-7-11: Law Enforcement Dogs And Animals
3-7-12: Penalties
3-7-13: Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter have the following meanings:
                   Off the premises of the owner or caretaker, and not under
AT LARGE:          the control of the owner or caretaker by leash which a
                   person has physical control over.
CHICKEN:           A female chicken or hen.
COOP:              A structure for housing chickens made of wood or other
                   similar materials that provides shelter from the elements.
                   Making food and water available for consumption outdoors,
                   either on the ground or at a height of less than five feet
FEED:              (5'). For purposes of this chapter, a person does not feed
                   wildlife by maintaining live vegetation, such as fruit
                   trees, gardens, or flower beds.
OWNER:             Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation
                   owning, keeping or harboring a dog or a cat.
PERSONS:           The resident, property owner, custodian or keeper of any
                   chicken.
PREMISES:          Any lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels or tracts of
                   land located within the City of Moorhead.
                   Shall have sidewalls with a minimum height of five feet (5')
                   and be constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in
                   the wire shall not exceed two inches (2"). Support posts
PROPER ENCLOSURES: shall be one and one-fourth inch (11/4") or larger steel
                   pipe buried in the ground eighteen inches (18") or more.
                   When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls shall
                   be buried a minimum of eighteen inches (18") in the ground.
RUN:               An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
                   Undomesticated animals living in the wild. This definition
WILDLIFE:          includes feral cats and dogs. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005; amd.
                   Ord. 2005-27, 10-17-2005; Ord. 2008-23, 11-24-2008; Ord.
                   2020-15, 1-11-2021; Ord. 2023-05, 4-10-2023)
 
3-7-2: LICENSE AND REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License And Registration: All dogs and cats over six (6) months of age
kept, harbored, owned, or in any way possessed by any person within the city
shall be annually licensed and registered by no later than February 15 of each
year.
   B.   Fees: Dog and cat licenses shall be issued by the city clerk, the
police department, or an entity authorized by the city council to issue dog or
cat licenses, upon payment of a license fee as established by the city's fee
schedule annually for each dog and cat, except that the license fee for a
neutered, spayed or desexed dog or cat shall be as established by the city's
fee schedule annually.
   C.   Application: The owner shall state at the time application is made for
such license, upon printed forms provided for such purposes, their name and
address and the breed, color and sex of the animal, date of rabies inoculation
of the animal and whether or not the animal is neutered, spayed or desexed.
   D.   Rabies Inoculation Required: All dogs or cats which are licensed by the
city of Moorhead shall be inoculated against rabies. The police department may
request that an owner provide proof that an animal has been inoculated for
rabies. In the event that an owner is unable to provide proof of inoculation
the animal's license shall be canceled.
   E.   License Evidence: No license for a neutered, spayed or desexed dog or
cat shall be issued unless satisfactory evidence of neutering, spaying or
desexing is confirmed by a qualified veterinarian verbally or in writing.
   F.   Exemptions: The licensing provisions of this section shall not apply
where the owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor where dogs
or cats are brought into the city for the purpose of participation in any dog
or cat show, nor to dogs properly trained to assist blind or deaf persons when
such dogs are actually being used by blind or deaf persons for the purpose of
aiding them in going from place to place nor to dogs being used in law
enforcement except any of the above animals shall be required to have their
rabies inoculation.
   G.   Term Of License: The license herein provided for shall be in force from
the date thereof until January 1 thereafter.
   H.   Presumption Of Ownership Of Dogs Or Cats: Licensing and registration of
a dog or cat with the City shall establish a presumption that, at the time the
dog or cat is licensed and registered, the owner of the dog or cat is the
person receiving the license and listed on the registration. (Ord. 2008-23, 11-
24-2008)
3-7-3: COLLAR AND TAGS:
Upon payment of the license fee, the City Clerk or designee shall issue to the
owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog and cat so
licensed. The shape and color of the tag shall be changed every year and shall
have stamped thereon the certificate number. Each owner shall provide each dog
and cat with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed and shall see
that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a tag is lost or
destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the City Clerk upon presentation of a
receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the current year and the
payment of a fee as established by the City's fee schedule for such duplicate.
Tags shall not be transferable from one animal to another and no refunds shall
be made on any license fee because of the death of the animal or the owner
leaving the City before expiration of the license period. The metal rabies
inoculation tag shall also be kept affixed to the animal's collar at all times.
(Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
2008)
3-7-4: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess four (4) or
more dogs and/or four (4) or more cats over six (6) months of age upon or about
the premises of any dwelling, or dwelling unit within the corporate limits of
the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of dogs and/or cats kept,
harbored, owned or possessed at the premises of any dwelling or dwelling unit
within the corporate limits of the City shall not exceed a total of four (4)
animals (i.e., 2 dogs and 2 cats; 1 dog and 3 cats). Provided, a person may
request a permit from the Police Department to keep, or harbor up to two (2)
dogs or two (2) cats, but not both, as part of a qualified home used by
organizations for rescue or sheltering of abandoned or lost animals. (For
purposes of this section, a "qualified home" shall mean a home which has
received written approval to house abandoned or lost animals by an organization
involved in the rescue or sheltering of abandoned or lost animals, and which
organization has been in existence and operating for at least 1 year.) The
permit shall allow up to two (2) such animals in addition to other dogs or cats
already kept at the dwelling pursuant to the first sentence of this section.
The permit shall be for a period of a year, and may be renewed annually
provided there have been no violations of the provisions of this chapter
resulting in an administrative penalty or criminal violation being imposed on
the permit holder. The fee for the permit shall be as established by the City's
fee schedule. (Ord. 2019-03, 1-28-2019)
3-7-5: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   No person having the custody or control of any dog or cat shall permit
the same to be off the property limits of its owner or caretaker, or on any
street, public park, public golf course, school grounds or public place in the
City without being effectively restrained by a leash not exceeding six feet
(6') in length or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets. Dogs,
which are at a City designated "dog park" in accordance with subsection 6-1-4E
of this Code, are exempt from this section.
   B.   The owner of every fierce, potentially dangerous, dangerous or vicious
dog shall confine such animal within a building or proper enclosure and such
dog shall not be taken out of such building or enclosure unless the dog is
securely muzzled.
   C.   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be kept confined in a building or
secure enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, in such manner
that such animal cannot come in contact with another animal, except for
breeding purposes.
   D.   Any dog or cat found running at large, whose ownership is known to the
City need not be impounded but the City at its discretion may order the owner
to keep the animal in strict restraint as herein defined or the City may cite
the owner of such animal to appear in court to answer charges of violation of
this chapter.
   E.   If such dog or cat is found running at large or otherwise in violation
of this section, it may be taken up and impounded and shall not be released
except after payment of the fees or due hearing before a court of law as to why
the owner should not be required to pay the fees; provided, however, that if
any dangerous, potentially dangerous, fierce or vicious dog so found at large
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog may be slain by any police
officer or other authorized person.
   F.   Any dog or cat found running at large or otherwise in violation of this
section two (2) or more times during a twelve (12) month period shall be
impounded and shall not be released except after payment of a minimum fine as
established by the city's fee schedule in addition to any hereinbefore
prescribed fees or due hearing before a court of law as to why the owner should
not be required to pay the fine and fees. (Ord. 2008-23, 11-24-2008)
3-7-6: IMPOUNDING DOGS, CATS, AND OTHER ANIMALS AT LARGE:
   A.   Authority To Impound; Records: The city shall designate such persons as
the city deems necessary to apprehend any dog, cat, or other animal found
running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter and to impound such
dog, cat, or other animal in the city pound, if one is maintained, or any other
suitable place for the impounding of animals as may be directed by the city.
Licensed animals shall be separated from unlicensed animals. A complete
registry shall be made upon impounding any dog, cat, or other animal including,
with relation to the dog, cat, or other animal entering:
      1.   Its description by species, breed, sex, approximate age, and other
distinguishing traits.
      2.   The location at which it was seized.
      3.   The date of its seizure.
      4.   The name and address of the person from whom any dog, cat, or other
animal three (3) months of age or over was received.
      5.   The name and address of the person to whom any dog, cat, or other
animal three (3) months of age or older was transferred.
      6.   Whether the dog, cat, or other animal is licensed for the current
year.
      7.   If the dog, cat, or other animal is licensed, the name and address
of its owner and the number of its tag.
   B.   Notice To Owner And Redemption: Not later than two (2) days after the
impounding of any dog, cat, or other animal, the city shall attempt to notify
the owner, if the owner is known to the city.
   C.   Impound And Redemption Fees:
      1.   The owner of any animal so impounded may reclaim such animal upon
payment of an impound fee as established by the city's fee schedule for the
first impound each year, a fee as established by the city's fee schedule for
the second impound, a fee as established by the city's fee schedule for the
third impound, and increasing thereafter a fee as established by the city's fee
schedule for each additional impound.
      2.   Additional charges for maintenance and keeping of said dog or cat,
giving proper notice, and the cost of any needed rabies inoculation shall be
assessed in addition to the license fee and impound fee.
      3.   The owner of any dog or cat six (6) months of age or older impounded
by the city which is not licensed for the current year or which has not been
spayed or neutered shall be assessed an impound fee as established by the
city's fee schedule in addition to the fees hereinbefore prescribed.
      4.   If the owner disputes the fees assessed or prescribed, the owner
shall pay the fees and may appeal any disputed fees to conciliation court in
Clay County for a refund.
   D.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Or Infected Dogs, Cats, And Other Animals: All
animals shall be impounded for a period of at least five (5) regular business
days. At the end of the five (5) day period, all animals, which remain
unredeemed, must be made available to any registered, recorded, licensed,
animal rescue organization. At the end of the five (5) day period, if no
requests for animals have been filed with the city by any registered, recorded,
licensed, animal rescue organization, all animals, which remain unredeemed, may
be destroyed in the discretion of the city. Notwithstanding any provisions
within this section, any animal which appears to be suffering from rabies or
affected with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease, as
shall be determined by a qualified veterinarian, shall not be released but may
be forthwith destroyed. (Ord. 2008-23, 11-24-2008)
3-7-7: MUZZLING REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the dangers of
rabies, the city may order all persons owning or keeping a dog or cat to
confine it securely on their premises unless such dog shall have a muzzle of
sufficient strength to prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog or cat
running at large after the issuance of such an order shall be seized and
impounded unless noticeably infected with rabies. All dogs or cats so
noticeably infected with rabies and displaying vicious propensities shall be
disposed of without notice to the owner. Dogs and cats impounded during the
first two (2) days of such proclamation shall, if claimed within three (3)
days, be released to the owner unless infected with rabies, upon payment of the
impounding charges. If unclaimed after that period, such dog or cat may be
destroyed. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005)
3-7-8: SUSPICION OF RABIES, NOTICE:
   A.   If a dog or cat is believed to have rabies or has been bitten by a dog
or cat suspected of having rabies, such animal shall be placed under the
observation of a veterinarian, at the expense of the owner(s) for a period of
ten (10) days. The owner(s) shall notify the police department of the fact that
their dog or cat has been exposed to rabies and, at its discretion, the police
department is empowered to have such animal removed from the owner's premises
to a veterinary hospital and placed under observation for a period of ten (10)
days at the expense of the owner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any persons knowing or suspecting that a dog
or cat has rabies to allow such dog or cat to be taken off their premises or
beyond the limits of the city without the written permission of the police
department. Every owner or other person, who suspects a dog or cat is rabid,
shall immediately notify the police department who shall either remove the
animal to the pound or destroy it.
   C.   Upon request of any person who has been bitten by a dog or cat within
the city limits, or upon request of the guardian of said person, the police
department shall impound said animal and shall deliver said animal to a
veterinarian to be placed under observation of a veterinarian, at the expense
of the owner of said animal, for a period of ten (10) days thereafter. Owners
wishing to appeal the impounding of their animal may request the chief of
police to review the impound or may seek redress in the courts. (Ord. 2005-1,
2-22-2005)
3-7-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises Kept Clean: Any person operating or maintaining a kennel for
any number of dogs or cats, either commercially or privately, or maintaining a
dog or cat on a leash, or chained in a back yard or elsewhere, or allowed to
roam in a fenced in yard of any size, shall clean waste material daily. All
waste material shall be stored in steel containers, covered fly and watertight
and to prevent any noxious odor therefrom.
   B.   Animal Wastes On Public And Private Property: No person shall allow a
dog or cat owned by them or in their possession to deposit animal waste in city
parks, on public property or on the property of other citizens or residents of
the city. Any person charged and convicted of a violation of this subsection
shall be subject to a fine or administrative penalty not to exceed ten dollars
($10.00) for the first offense and thereafter not to exceed fifty dollars
($50.00) for further offenses.
   C.   Animals Disturbing The Peace 1 : No person shall keep or harbor any
animal, which habitually barks, cries or howls. Any such animals, which
habitually bark, cry or howl are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
"Habitually barking, crying or howling" shall be defined as barking, howling or
crying for repeated intervals of at least five (5) minutes, with less than one
minute of interruption. Such barking, crying or howling must be audible off of
the owner's or keeper's premises. Any person desiring to make an administrative
or criminal complaint against the owner or keeper of a habitually barking,
crying or howling animal must contact the police department and state facts
supporting the alleged nuisance. The police department, upon receipt of a
sufficient complaint, shall then notify the person owning, harboring or keeping
the animal that a complaint has been received and that such nuisance must be
abated, and remain abated for a period of two (2) months. Notice shall be
sufficient for purposes of this section if the alleged violator is informed
orally of the complaint or if notice of the complaint is posted upon a door of
the residence where the alleged violation occurred. If the animal is not
quieted within the above time period and for the above described time period,
an administrative or criminal complaint may be made out against the alleged
violator.
   D.   Feeding Of Wildlife Prohibited: No person shall feed wildlife within
the city limits, unless that person is doing so in the course of that person’s
employment as a veterinarian, city employee, or Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources employee. (Ord. 2020-15, 1-11-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-4-2B5 of this code.
3-7-10: ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN CITY:
   A.   Livestock Prohibited In City Limits: It shall be unlawful for an owner
to keep ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, except as permitted in
this Chapter, cattle, horses, pigs, sheep, goats, or other domestic livestock
within the limits of the city, except that licensed veterinarians may keep such
animals for the purposes of care and treatment necessary in the practice of
their profession and except for temporary presence in connection with livestock
or wildlife shows, exhibitions, zoos, circuses or auctions within the city. Any
animals present in such a temporary livestock or wildlife event shall be caged,
tethered or otherwise safely restrained to protect the public.
   B.   Keeping Of Chickens: It is unlawful for any person to own, control,
keep, maintain, or harbor chickens on any premises within the city unless that
person has a permit to do so as provided in this chapter. The keeping or
harboring of male chickens or roosters is prohibited.
      1.   Permit: A person shall not maintain a coop or run unless granted a
permit by the city. The permit is subject to all terms and conditions of this
chapter and any additional conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
         a.   Annual Permit: Permits will not exceed one (1) year and are
subject to annual renewal. The initial permit automatically expires at the end
of the initial calendar year and, thereafter, renewals of said permit extend
for calendar-year periods. The annual permit fee is set by resolution of the
city council, as amended from time to time.
         b.   Number Of Chickens:
            (1)   Tier I Permit: One to Six (1 - 6) Chickens: Permit may be
issued to any property that meets requirements for keeping chickens.
            (2)   Tier II Permit: Seven to Twelve (7 - 12) Chickens: Permit may
be issued to properties zoned RLD-1: Residential Low Density-1 that are one (1)
acre or more and meets requirements for keeping chickens.
         c.   Permit Requirements: A completed application for a permit
includes:
            (1)   Applicant and property information;
            (2)   The number and species of chickens to be maintained at the
premise;
            (3)   A signed statement that the applicant will, at all times,
keep the chickens in accordance with this chapter and comply with all the
conditions within the application and permit. Failure to comply with said
conditions, or modification thereof, will constitute a violation of the
provisions of this chapter and are grounds for the revocation or suspension of
the permit.
            (4)   Fee.
            (5)   A scaled drawing with the following:
               (a)   The location and dimensions of the coop, run, fence and
landscape screening (where required);
               (b)   Approximate distance of the coop and run from adjoining
structures and property lines;
               (c)   If coop or run is intended to be moveable, indicate area
or areas where they may be moved;
               (d)   A property with three (3) or more residential dwelling
units or zoned for commercial, mixed-use, institutional, or industrial use is
prohibited from keeping chickens.
               i.   Exception: Single and two-family homes in mixed-use
districts may keep chickens.
      2.   Chickens may be slaughtered on the premises if out of view of the
general public and only for consumption by the occupants of the premises.
      3.   Confinement: A person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or
harbors chickens must keep them confined in a coop and/or run and may not allow
the chickens to run at large, which means chickens roaming off permitted
property.
         a.   Exception: Chickens may roam outside of their coop or run within
yards with perimeter fencing or coop/run perimeter fencing between sunrise and
sunset with adult supervision.
         b.   Coops And Runs:
 
             Location        Setbacks         Materials        Height
                                              - Must be
                                              predator- proof
                                              and constructed
                                              from durable
                                              materials which
                                              are compatible
                                              with the
                                              principal
                                              structure
                                              - Runs must be
             - May not be                     entirely
             located in                       enclosed and
             front yard                       allow airflow
             (beyond front                    and sunlight
             facade of       - 3 feet from    with non- opaque
             house)          onsite           materials such
Coop and Run - May not be    structures       as chicken-wire  - May not exceed
             located in      - 10 feet from   - Coop floor,    7 feet
             easements       property lines   foundation and
             - May not be                     footings must be
             located in                       constructed
             dwelling or                      using rodent
             garage                           resistant
                                              materials
                                              - Materials such
                                              as exposed
                                              plywood,
                                              particle board,
                                              unfinished
                                              metal, plastic
                                              sheets or tarps
                                              and snow fencing
                                              are not
                                              permitted
             - Must be kept
             within coop,
             run or other
Feed         structure on                                     
             site within
             animal-roof
             containers
                                              - Must be
                                              either:
                                              6-foot solid
                                              fence consisting
                                              of typical
                                              residential
                                              fence materials
                                              such as wood or
                                              vinyl2
                                              or
                                              4-6 foot light   - Minimum: 4
             -Must be either                  permeable fence  feet2
             around          - Perimeter      with landscaping - Maximum: 7
             perimeter of    fencing is       sufficient to    feet2
Fencing1     yard or around  permitted up to  screen from      - Fence bottom
             perimeter of    the property     neighbors and/or must be no more
             coop and run    line             street2          than 4 inches
                                              - Materials such from the ground
                                              as exposed       or surface
                                              plywood,
                                              particle board,
                                              pallets, snow
                                              fences and other
                                              materials not
                                              customarily
                                              associated with
                                              residential
                                              fence materials
                                              are prohibited
                             Clearance from
            Size3           ground to coop   Bedding          Manure
                             floor
             - Minimum: 4
             square feet per - 2 feet
             chicken         - The area under
             - Maximum: 10   the coop may be
             square feet per used as up to
Coop         chicken         50% of required
             - Chickens must run space if at
             be secured in a least 2 feet in  - To be layered  - Must be
             chicken coop    height and open  with quality     removed
             from sunset to  to airflow       bedding such as  frequently
             sunrise each                     straw, hay or    - Manure which
             day                              hemp that is     is not properly
             - Minimum: 15                    clean and        disposed of and/
             square feet per                  changed          or causes odor
             chicken                          frequently to    issues will
             - Maximum:                       prevent odor,    result in
             cannot exceed                    pests and other  revocation of
             200 square feet                  nuisances        the permit
Run          except in RLD-   
             1 where there
             is no maximum
             - At least 50%
             of run must be
             in direct
             sunlight
 
Notes:
   1.   Exception: Properties in RLD-1: Residential Low Density-1 are exempt
from fence/screening requirements except that chickens that roam outside of
coop/run must roam in a contained area.
   2.   Residential Protection Screening: Where any chicken coop/run abuts
property zoned for residential use, screening along the boundary of the
residential property shall be provided. All fencing and screening specifically
required by this title shall be subject to title
10-19-5, Fences, and shall consist of either a:
      a.   Six (6) foot solid fence; or
      b.   Solid fence less than six (6) feet in height or light permeable
fence four to seven (4-7) feet in height shall have a greenbelt planting strip
provided as follows:
         (1)   A greenbelt planting strip shall consist of evergreen and/or
deciduous trees and plants, and shall be:
            (a)   Of sufficient width and density to provide an effective
visual screen, as approved by zoning administrator.
            (b)   Minimum height of six (6) feet.
            (c)   Earth mounding or berms may be used but shall not be used to
achieve more than three (3) feet of the required screen.
   3.   Commercially purchased coops/runs that substantially conform with the
requirements of this section may be permitted. "Substantially conforms" means
it may not differ more or less than thirty percent (30%) of the noted coop/run
standards, as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      4.   Conditions And Inspections: A person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains, or harbors chickens must keep premises in a healthy, sanitary, and
non-nuisance condition. Premises may not create noxious odors that may affect
adjacent properties. Any coop or run authorized by permit under this chapter
may be inspected at any reasonable time by an animal control officer, law
enforcement officer, public health official, or other employee or agent of the
city.
      5.   Private Restrictions/Covenants: A permit issued to a person whose
premises is subject to private restrictions and/or covenants that prohibit the
keeping of chickens is the sole responsibility of the person applying for the
permit. The interpretation and enforcement of the private restrictions and/or
covenants is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved, the city
is in no way responsible for interpreting or enforcing private restrictions
and/or covenants.
      6.   Refusal To Grant Permit: The city may refuse to grant or renew a
permit to keep or maintain chickens for failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, submitting an inaccurate or incomplete application, failure to
comply with permit conditions, creation of a nuisance condition, or if the
public health and safety is unreasonably endangered by the granting or renewing
of such permit. Any coop or run constructed or maintained on any premises must
be removed from said premises within thirty (30) days after the suspension,
expiration, or revocation of the permit for said premises or after a period of
thirty (30) days from which chickens have not been lawfully kept on the
premises.
      7.   Suspension And Appeal: A permit for keeping of chickens may be
revoked or suspended by the city for any violation of this chapter following
written notice or, upon request for renewal, the renewal permit may be refused
by the city. The applicant may appeal the revocation, suspension, or refusal to
renew the permit to the city clerk by requesting a hearing before the city
council within seven (7) days of the date of the notice. The city council shall
hear testimony from the permittee and city staff and render a decision on the
matter or request additional information.
      8.   Violation: A person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or harbors
chickens without obtaining or maintaining a current permit or after a permit
has been suspended or revoked is guilty of an infraction as provided under city
code §§
1-4-2 and
1-4-4.
      9.   A person who had a permit to harbor chickens and who no longer
harbors chickens must remove any related structures (coop, run, or other)
within ten (10) days of no longer harboring chickens.
   C.   Pigeons: It shall be unlawful for an owner to keep pigeons within the
limits of the city except fancy or homing pigeons as hereinafter defined may be
kept in accordance with the following regulations:
      1.   Definitions:
 
                     Any pen or run enclosed by wire immediately adjacent to a
AVIARY:              loft into which fancy or homing pigeons can only enter
                     directly from the loft.
                     A pigeon which through selective past breeding has
                     developed certain distinctive physical and/or performing
FANCY PIGEON:        characteristics as to be clearly identified as such,
                     including, by way of example, but not limitation, rollers,
                     frillbacks, and fantails.
                     A pigeon which through selective past breeding has
                     developed the distinctive physical and/or mental
HOMING PIGEON:       characteristics to enable the pigeon to return to its home
                     after having been released a considerable distance
                     therefrom, including, by way of example but not
                     limitation, carrier and racing pigeons.
                     Any building, structure, or coop in which fancy or homing
LOFT:                pigeons are housed or kept which meets the requirements of
                     subsection B5 of this section.
                     Allowing fancy or homing pigeons in accordance with
                     subsection B4 of this section to exercise outside of a
                     loft and/or aviary with the owner of the pigeons present
SUPERVISED EXERCISE: on the property where the loft and/or aviary is situated
                     to ensure that the pigeons do not roost on the property of
                     other persons nor otherwise interfere with the enjoyment
                     of other persons’ property.
 
      2.   Confinement Of Pigeons: The keeping of fancy or homing pigeons
within the limits of the city shall only be allowed if such pigeons are kept
confined in an aviary and/or loft, which shall be subject to inspection by the
city for compliance with requirements set forth in subsection B5 of this
section, and, if such pigeons are only allowed outside for the purposes set
forth in subsection B3 of this section.
      3.   Outside Flight Allowed: Fancy or homing pigeons may be permitted to
fly outside the loft or aviary for the purpose of supervised exercise to
achieve and maintain the muscular condition necessary for shows or races in
which the pigeons participate with homing pigeons further being allowed to fly
outside the loft or aviary when returning to the loft from a supervised race or
training flight.
      4.   Outside Flight Regulations: No one may fly fancy or homing pigeons
within the limits of the city except in accordance with the following
regulations:
         a.   Fancy or homing pigeons shall not be released or exercised on any
day in which prior to release or exercise the pigeons have been fed.
         b.   No more than twenty (20) fancy or homing pigeons shall be flown
in any one day by any owner except that young pigeons in numbers greater than
twenty (20) may be flown providing they do not fly outside the boundaries of
the owner’s yard.
         c.   No fancy or homing pigeons shall be permitted by their owner to
land, set, light, or gather on the property of another, be it public or private
property.
         d.   All fancy or homing pigeons flown shall be banded with a brightly
colored plastic or metal band with all pigeons flown together having the same
color band.
         e.   The owner of any fancy or homing pigeons flown shall be
responsible for maintaining a log book which shall be available and open for
inspection by the city on the pigeons flown containing the following
information:
         Pigeon band number
         Pigeon plastic band color
         Date and time out or released
         Date and time birds returned
         Type of domestic pigeon
      5.   Loft Requirements: No loft shall be allowed to be used to house or
keep fancy or homing pigeons which does not meet the following requirements:
         a.   The complete exterior of the loft shall be painted and have a
clean appearance. The exterior of the loft shall be disinfected at least two
(2) times each year.
         b.   The exterior grounds surrounding the loft shall be maintained and
have a clean appearance, free of papers, droppings, feathers, straw, boxes, and
other nonusable materials.
         c.   The interior of the loft shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary, and wholesome manner at all times free from any filth, garbage,
waste, nonusable articles, and/or other debris and shall be subject to periodic
inspection by authorized city personnel.
         d.   A metal container with a metal cover shall be provided for each
loft for the disposal of the above referenced garbage, waste, nonusable
articles or other debris with the container to be regularly emptied and
cleaned.
         e.   Any pigeon with a noncurable health condition shall be removed as
soon as possible from the loft within a limited amount of time for study and
research and/or treatment of pigeon’s condition.
         f.   Training baskets, breeding cages, medical treatment cages, and
any like or similar cage or enclosure within the loft shall be cleaned no less
than three (3) times a year with an acceptable chemical spray or compound to
maintain such baskets, cages, or enclosure in a safe and sanitary condition.
         g.   No loft for housing or keeping fancy or homing pigeons shall be
maintained or operated or be permitted to exist within a distance of twenty
five feet (25') from any building or structure or any accessory building or
accessory structure thereto used for residential, commercial, or public
purposes.
         h.   No loft shall be located in any structure not constructed in
accordance with the zoning and building codes of the city.
         i.   No loft shall be kept in a condition contrary to the health or
nuisance codes of the city.
   D.   Keeping Of Wild Or Exotic Animals Prohibited:
      1.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
 
ANIMAL:                Shall include any live vertebrate creature, domestic or
                       wild, not to include birds.
PET:                   Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
                       Any live monkey (nonhuman primate), raccoon, skunk,
                       wolf, squirrel, fox, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx
                       or any other warm blooded animal, poisonous snake or
                       tarantula which can normally be found in the wild state
                       or any other member of crocodilian, including, but not
WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL: limited to, alligators, crocodiles, caimans, and
                       gavials, and including such other animal that cannot be
                       effectively inoculated for rabies. Ferrets, nonpoisonous
                       snakes, rabbits, and laboratory rats which have been
                       bred in captivity and which have never known the wild
                       shall be excluded from this definition.
 
      2.   Display Or Exhibition: It shall be unlawful to keep within the city
of Moorhead any wild or exotic animal for display or for exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply
to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, circuses, schools or
colleges, or veterinary clinics, which are properly licensed by the federal
government or state.
      3.   Keeping As A Pet: No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild
or exotic animal as a pet.
      4.   Notice Required At A Place Of Sale: Any person who offers for sale a
“wild or exotic animal” as defined by subsection C1 of this section shall post
conspicuously at the place of sale or display the following notice:
         No person may lawfully keep or permit to be kept in the City of
Moorhead any live monkey (nonhuman primate), raccoon, skunk, wolf, squirrel,
fox, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm-blooded animal,
poisonous snake or tarantula, crocodile or alligator, which can normally be
found in the wild state or any other member of the crocodilian, including, but
not limited to, alligators, crocodiles, caimans and gavials and including such
other animal that cannot be effectively inoculated for rabies.
      5.   Notice Of Keeping: Upon the written complaint of any person that a
person owns or is keeping or harboring a wild or exotic animal in violation of
this section in the city, the police department or their authorized designee
shall forthwith cause the matter to be investigated; and if after investigation
the facts indicate that such person named in the complaint is in fact the owner
or is keeping or harboring any such animal in the city, they shall forthwith
send written notice to the person requiring such person to safely remove the
animal from the city within five (5) days of the date of the notice. Notice as
herein provided shall not be required where such animal has previously caused
serious physical harm or death to any person or has escaped and is at large, in
which case the police department shall cause the animal to be immediately
seized and impounded, according to the provisions of subsection C6 of this
section, or killed if seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk or
serious physical harm or death to any person.
      6.   Seizure And Impounding: The police department or their authorized
designee shall forthwith cause to be seized and impounded any wild or exotic
animal, where the person owning, keeping or harboring such animal has failed to
comply with the notice sent pursuant to subsection C5 of this section. Upon a
seizure and impoundment, the animal shall be delivered to a place of
confinement, which may be with any organization which is authorized by law to
accept, own, keep or harbor such animals.
      If, during the course of seizing and impounding any such animal, the
animal poses a risk of serious physical harm or death to any person, such
person or persons authorized by the police department may render the animal
immobile by means of tranquilizers or other safe drugs; or if that is not
safely possible, then the animal may be killed.
      7.   Enforcement: The provisions of this subsection C shall be enforced
by the police department or the Minnesota department of natural resources, the
animal damage control department of the United States department of
agriculture, or any other person duly designated by the Moorhead chief of
police.
      8.   Delayed Enforcement: Any person who has a wild or exotic animal in
possession at the time of the effective date of this subsection C in
contravention of this section, shall have thirty (30) days to dispose of the
animal(s) by removal of the animal(s) from the city or by giving or selling the
animal(s) to a zoological park or other entity exempt from this subsection C.
   E.   Prescribed Grazing and Keeping of Sheep: It is unlawful for any person
to own, control, keep, maintain, or harbor sheep on any premise within the city
unless that person has a permit to do so as provided in this chapter. A permit
may be issued for the keeping or harboring of up to forty (40) sheep on any
premise.
      1.   This chapter is a temporary pilot program and is primarily intended
for the Harvest Hope Farm and shall take effect upon final passage and
publication as required by law and expire on (December 31, 2026) unless
otherwise approved by the Moorhead City Council. A maximum of ten (10) pilot
permits will be approved for the pilot program. Property owners or
organizations wishing to join the pilot program may do so by submitting a
completed permit application.
      2.   Permit: A person shall not maintain a sheep grazing area unless
granted a prescribed grazing permit by the city. The permit is subject to all
terms and conditions of this chapter and any additional conditions deemed
necessary by the city to protect public health, safety, and welfare.
         a.   Temporary Permit: For the purpose of the pilot program, the
initial permit will automatically expire on (December 31, 2026) unless the
permit is revoked for not meeting permit or ordinance provisions. If the pilot
program is extended or made permanent, permits will be reviewed and issued
subject to conditions approved at that time.
         b.   Permit requirements: An application for a permit includes a
complete application with a scaled diagram that indicates the location,
address, and approximate size of the prescribed grazing area and proper
enclosures - including paddocks, proposed grazing rotation schedule (if
applicable), approximate size and distance of any structures or shelters to be
used during the approved permit period, adjoining structures and property
lines, the number of sheep to be maintained at the premises, waste/manure
removal plan, full name, address, and 24-hour contact telephone number of the
person who owns the sheep to be used for prescribed grazing, the length of time
requested, type(s) of fencing to be installed for the required enclosure, date
the temporary fence will be installed, and a signed statement that the
applicant will, at all times, keep the sheep in accordance with this chapter
and comply with all the conditions within the application and permit.
      Failure to comply with said conditions, or modification thereof, will
constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter and are grounds for
revocation of the permit by the City with thirty (30) days written notice to
the Permittee. Breeding and slaughtering of sheep on any premises within the
city is prohibited.
         c.    The keeping of sheep shall only occur on parcels, or a
combination of contiguous parcels of one (1) acre or more.
      3.   Conditions of permit: A permit granted under this section shall be
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Duration of Pilot Program: The permit for the pilot program will
automatically expire (December 31, 2026) unless the permit is revoked or the
permit is extended by the City Council.
         b.   Duration of Grazing: Prescribed grazing on any property or parcel
less than two (2) acres in size shall be limited to a maximum of 30 consecutive
days with a minimum of thirty (30) consecutive days between the next grazing
event. Any property or parcel greater than two (2) acres may extend the
duration of grazing beyond the thirty (30) day period with approval of the
Zoning Administrator and an approved grazing rotation schedule.
         c.   Number of Sheep Allowed: One (1) sheep per two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet of grazable land up to a maximum of forty (40)
sheep.
         d.   Type of Fencing: A fence system shall be implemented where the
fence shall be constructed of durable materials capable of holding sheep which
may include electrified fencing. For the purpose of this pilot program,
electrified fences shall be permitted within zoning districts with a prescribed
grazing permit. Fencing shall follow all requirements specified in section 10-
19-5. Fencing must be maintained in good condition and not result in hazardous
conditions to the public. Fencing shall be setback a minimum of fifty feet
(50') from centerline of a roadway and fifty feet (50') from a property line
with a housing structure.
         e.   Required Signage: One (1) sign not to exceed sixteen (16) square
feet posted near the entrance with the permit number, date issued, and 24-hour
contact phone number. A sign warning of an electric fence must be posted at
least every fifty (50) feet and shall not exceed four (4) square feet.
         f.   Land Management: Grazing areas must be monitored to prevent
overgrazing, erosion, and damage to natural resources.
         g.   Food and Water: Food and water shall be supplied in quantities in
order to sustain the flock of sheep for the duration of the permit.
            (1)   A minimum of one (1) water tank/trough with enough water
capacity to sustain the flock of sheep intended for the permit shall be
provided on the grazing site to ensure adequate hydration for the sheep for the
duration of the permit. Water tanks/troughs should be filled daily, or as
necessary, and cleaned weekly to prevent odor and pests. Parcels which have
access to naturally occurring bodies of water may be able to waive this
requirement as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
            (2)   Food shall be supplied to supplement the prescribed grazing
if the vegetation on the property is not enough. Supplemental food shall be
stored inside of a building and shall be stored in metal predator proof
containers.
         h.   Screening and Removal of Trash, Waste, and Manure: Trash and
waste must be removed frequently to prevent nuisances, public health, or
sanitation issues as provided in section 3-3. Any trash storage areas are not
permitted to be visible from the street or adjoining or adjacent properties.
Any feed for the prescribed grazing sheep must be securely stored and hidden so
as not to be seen from the street or adjoining or adjacent properties. A waste
removal plan for manure must be submitted with the application detailing how
manure will be removed if necessary or if complaints are received. Parcels or a
contiguous lot area of less than two acres must remove manure from the property
bi-monthly and no more than fifteen (15) days in between removal in order to
control odor and prevent unsanitary conditions. Lots or contiguous parcels
which are greater than two (2) acres do not need to remove manure bi-monthly if
conditions do not create an odor, unsanitary conditions, or other nuisance
conditions and no complaints have been received.
         i.   Structures: No structures shall be erected on any property
without a primary structure and without first obtaining all necessary permits
and meeting setback requirements and shall meet requirements provided within
10-18-3 and 10-19-8.
         j.   Other Permits Required: No permit for prescribed grazing shall be
granted without obtaining permits or permissions from any other necessary
boards, governmental agencies and/or departments within the City.
         k.   Health: Grazing animals must receive proper veterinary treatment
and regular deworming. In the event that a sheep becomes ill, injured, or
perishes, the permittee must provide immediate on-site care and remove the
sheep until it is no longer ill or injured.
         l.   Definitions:
 
GRAZING AREA:       A specified area of property where sheep grazing will
                    occur.
                    The use of sheep as a landscape management technique to
                    control the growth of native prairie grasses or undesirable
                    vegetation, including noxious weeds and invasive plant or
PRESCRIBED GRAZING: trees at a specific location of a defined length of time.
                    For the purpose of this definition, sheep used for
                    prescriptive grazing are not considered pets or farm
                    animals.
PROPER ENCLOSURES:  A four (4) foot fence made of durable materials capable of
                    holding sheep, which includes electrified fencing.
                    Female ewe, male ram, or a lamb. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005;
SHEEP:              amd. Ord. 2008-23, 11-24-2008; Ord. 2021-13, 10-12-2021;
                    Ord. 2023-05, 4-10-2023; Ord. 2024-07, 8-12-2024)
 
3-7-11: LAW ENFORCEMENT DOGS AND ANIMALS:
   A.   Any person who assaults, hinders, harasses, teases, tortures, poisons,
throws, shoots missiles at or harms any animal, dog or K-9 owned by or used by
any local, county, state, or federal government body is guilty of a
misdemeanor. It is not necessary that the animal be on duty at the time the
action is taken, nor is it necessary that the person responsible for the action
know that the animal is owned or used by a governmental entity in order for
that person to be found guilty of a violation of this section. A violation of
this section shall be punishable by imprisonment of not more than ninety (90)
days and/or a fine of not more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00) and such
restitution to the owner of the animal for harm caused as the court may order.
   B.   Any animal, police dog or K-9 used for law enforcement purposes, owned
or used by any local, county, state or federal government body shall be exempt
from any local laws pertaining to dogs, pets or animals within the city limits
so long as the animals' vaccinations are kept up to date. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-
2005)
3-7-12: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be charged with a
criminal offense, and if convicted be penalized in accordance with the
provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code, or alternatively may be charged with an administrative
violation pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005)
3-7-13: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Designation:
      1.   Any dog inside the Moorhead city limits may be designated as a
potentially dangerous dog if the dog:
         a.   When unprovoked, inflicted bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         b.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         c.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      2.   Any dog within the Moorhead city limits may be designated as a
dangerous dog if the dog has:
         a.   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
         b.   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner's property; or
         c.   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
   B.   Procedure For Designating A Dog As Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous:
      1.   A Moorhead police department sergeant, or officer of higher rank,
shall have the authority to designate a dog as potentially dangerous or
dangerous as defined in subsection A of this section.
      2.   When a dog is designated to be potentially dangerous or dangerous,
the owner shall be notified in writing of such designation.
      3.   This designation may be appealed to the hearing officer appointed
pursuant to section
1-4-5 of this code, in writing within ten (10) days of the owner and/or
caretaker of the dog receiving notice of the designation. Upon receipt of a
written appeal, the hearing officer shall set an appeal hearing date within
five (5) days. The appeal shall be held before the hearing officer, the chief
of police or his designee, and a local dog trainer/behaviorist.
      4.   Any dog deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction and subsequently brought into the city shall be deemed a dangerous
or potentially dangerous dog and abide by the provisions of this chapter to
notify the police department and meet the registration requirements.
   C.   Registration Requirements: No potentially dangerous dog or dangerous
dog shall be kept in the city of Moorhead unless the owner, at his or her own
cost, has implanted a microchip in the dog, containing the owner's address and
home telephone number, work telephone number, and cellphone number, if
applicable, and a backup contact name and telephone number and chip
identification number and has completed an application to register the dog as a
potentially dangerous or a dangerous dog and submitted said application to the
Moorhead city police department. In addition, the owner shall be required to
post a sign, satisfactory to the police department, at owner's residence
notifying the public of the presence of a dangerous or potentially dangerous
dog.
   D.   Application Contents:
      1.   The application to register the dog as potentially dangerous shall
include the following:
         a.   The owner's address and home, work and cellphone telephone number
and the implanted microchip identification number, as well as a backup contact
person and number;
         b.   Proof of continuing liability insurance in a single incident
amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury to or
death of any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons,
which may result from the ownership, keeping, or maintenance of dogs designated
as potentially dangerous or dangerous;
         c.   Proof that said dog has been sterilized and has current
vaccinations; and
         d.   A yearly registration fee as established by the city's fee
schedule.
      2.   The application to register the dog as a dangerous dog shall include
the following:
         a.   The owner's address and home, work and cellphone telephone number
and the implanted microchip identification number, as well as a backup contact
person and number;
         b.   Proof of continuing liability insurance in a single incident
amount of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury to or
death of any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons
which may result from the ownership, keeping, or maintenance of dogs designated
as potentially dangerous or dangerous;
         c.   Proof that said dog has been sterilized and has current
vaccinations; and
         d.   A yearly registration fee as established by the city's fee
schedule.
   E.   Yearly Registration Requirement: All dogs designated as potentially
dangerous dogs or dangerous dogs shall file a new application each year with an
accompanying registration fee.
   F.   Additional Requirements For Dangerous Dogs: In addition to filing a
yearly application to register a dangerous dog and paying the accompanying
yearly registration fee as established by the city's fee schedule, the owner of
a dangerous dog shall keep the dog, while on the owner's property, in a proper
enclosure. If the dog is outside an enclosure, the dog must be securely muzzled
and restrained by a chain or leash and under the physical restraint of a
competent adult. The owner of a dangerous dog shall also comply with the
requirements of Minnesota statutes 347.52 including the statute's sterilization
requirements.
   G.   Potentially Dangerous And Dangerous Dogs Brought Into The City: Any dog
designated as potentially dangerous or dangerous by another jurisdiction must
be registered within twenty four (24) hours of being brought into the city
limits of the city of Moorhead. Such registration shall be with the Moorhead
police department. A dog declared potentially dangerous by another jurisdiction
may be brought into the city limits of Moorhead for up to a fourteen (14) day
period after notifying the Moorhead police department of: the dog's breed,
location where the animal will be kept, microchip number, owner contact
information, and length of stay.
   H.   Penalties:
      1.   It shall be a misdemeanor offense to:
         a.   Be an owner, or be in possession of a potentially dangerous dog
in violation of the registration requirements set forth in this section;
         b.   Allow a dangerous dog to "run at large". A dog designated as
potentially dangerous must be leashed and be under the control of a competent
adult at all times when off the owner's property.
      2.   Dogs in violation of registration requirements will be impounded
immediately by the police department and held until brought into compliance if
found running at large, or if in custody on a rabies hold. If a dog is not
brought into compliance within fourteen (14) days of notification by the
Moorhead police department of its designation as a potentially dangerous dog,
the dog will be impounded and held until brought into compliance with this
section. If not brought into compliance within five (5) working days after
impoundment, the dog may be euthanized. The owner of said dog is responsible
for boarding and expenses associated with this process.
      3.   No person may own a dog in the city of Moorhead if the person has
been convicted of a third or a subsequent violation of this section. If any
member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog pursuant to this section,
unless specifically approved with or without restrictions by the Moorhead
police department, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog. (Ord.
2015-19, 10-12-2015)
CHAPTER 8
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-8A-1: Purpose
3-8A-2: Definitions
3-8A-3: Scope
3-8A-4: Management Of Site Vegetation
3-8A-5: Management Of Salt Storage
3-8A-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for stormwater management
systems within the city of Moorhead. In the event of any conflict between the
provisions of this chapter or other regulations adopted by the city of
Moorhead, Clay County, state or federal authorities, the more restrictive
standard prevails.
   B.   The objectives of this chapter are as follows:
      1.   To promote, preserve, and enhance the natural resources within the
city of Moorhead from adverse or undesirable impacts occasioned by development
or other activities;
      2.   To protect and promote the health, safety, and welfare of the people
and property through effective stormwater quantity and quality management
practices;
      3.   To regulate land development activity, land disturbing activity, or
other activities that may have an adverse and/or potentially irreversible
impact on stormwater quantity, water quality and/or environmentally sensitive
lands and to encourage compatibility between such uses;
      4.   To establish detailed review standards and procedures for land
development activities throughout the city of Moorhead, thereby achieving a
balance between urban growth and development and the protection of water
quality; and
      5.   To provide for adequate stormwater system analysis and design as
necessary to protect public and private property, water quality and existing
natural resources.
   C.   This chapter applies in the city of Moorhead, Minnesota, and to persons
outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the
city stormwater management system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
city engineer shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8A-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, and words, and
their derivatives, shall have the meanings as stated in this section. When
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense. Words in plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and the word "may" is always permissive.
APPLICANT: Any person or group that applies for a building permit, subdivision
approval, zoning change, approach, excavation or special use permit, stormwater
plan approval, stormwater permit or any other permit which allows land
disturbing activities. "Applicant" also means that person's agents, employees,
and others acting under this person's or group's direction. The term
"applicant" also refers to the permit holder or holders and the permit holder's
agents, employees, and others acting under this person's or group's direction.
BMPs: Measures designed to: a) prevent pollutants from leaving a specific area;
b) reduce/eliminate the introduction of pollutants; c) protect sensitive areas;
or d) prevent the interaction between precipitation and pollutants.
BASE FLOOD OR REGIONAL FLOOD OR 100-YEAR FLOOD 1 : The flood having a one
percent (1%) chance or probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year (i.e., 100-year flood).
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP): Erosion and sediment control and water quality
management practices that are the most effective and practicable means of
controlling, preventing, and minimizing the degradation of surface water,
including construction phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by federal,
state, or designated area wide planning agencies or included in the "Minnesota
Stormwater Manual".
BUFFER: A protective vegetated zone located adjacent to a natural resource,
such as a "water of the state" that is subject to direct or indirect human
alteration. Such a buffer strip is an integral part of protecting an aquatic
ecosystem through trapping sheet erosion, filtering pollutants, reducing
channel erosion and providing adjacent habitat.
The buffer strip begins at the "ordinary high water mark" for wetlands and
channel for rivers and streams. This start point corresponds to the Minnesota
department of natural resources (DNR) definition of a "shoreline" in Minnesota
rules 6115.0030.
CITY: The city of Moorhead or the city council of the city of Moorhead.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Moorhead or authorized agent.
COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE: A contiguous area where multiple separate
and distinct land disturbing activities may be taking place at different times,
or on different schedules, but under one proposed plan. This term is broadly
defined to include design, permit application, advertisement or physical
demarcation indicating that land disturbing activities may occur.
CONTROL MEASURE: A practice or combination of practices to control erosion and
attendant pollution, see also definition of "best management practices (BMP)".
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Moorhead.
DETENTION FACILITY: A natural or manmade structure, including wetlands used for
the temporary storage of runoff and which may contain a permanent pool of
water, or may be dry during times of no runoff.
DEVELOPER: A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
federal or state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land
disturbance and/or land development activity.
DEVELOPMENT: Any land disturbance activity that changes the site's runoff
characteristics in conjunction with residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional construction or alteration.
DISCHARGE: The release, conveyance, channeling, runoff, or drainage, of
stormwater, including snowmelt.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT: A right to use the land of another for a specific purpose,
such as a right of way for the movement of water across or under the land
surface or the storage of water.
EROSION: Removing the surface of the land by the action of water, wind, ice, or
gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities of man and nature.
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (E&S CONTROL PLAN): A written description
and/or plan indicating the number, locations, sizes, and other pertinent
information about best management practice methods designed to reduce erosion
of the land surface and the deposition of sediment within a waterway. An "E&S
control plan" is required as part of a stormwater management plan. Both the
stormwater management plan and E&S control plans are used in developing the
state mandated stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP). An E&S control
plan may be required for certain projects not requiring a full stormwater
management plan, as outlined in this chapter or determined necessary by the
city engineer.
EROSION CONTROL: Refers to methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples
include soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or
permanent cover, and construction phasing.
EXPOSED SOIL AREAS: All areas of the construction site where the vegetation
(trees, shrubs, brush, grasses, etc.) or impervious surface has been removed,
thus rendering the soil more prone to erosion. This includes topsoil stockpile
areas, borrow areas and disposal areas within the construction site. It does
not include temporary stockpiles or surcharge areas of clean sand, gravel,
concrete or bituminous, which have less stringent protection. Once soil is
exposed, it is considered "exposed soil" until it meets the definition of
"final stabilization".
FINAL STABILIZATION: All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed, and a uniform (evenly distributed, e.g., without large bare areas)
perennial vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the cover
for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures has been
established, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have been employed.
Simply sowing grass seed is not considered final stabilization. Where
agricultural land is involved, such as when pipelines are built on crop or
range land, final stabilization constitutes returning the land to its
preconstruction agricultural use or as required by the "Minnesota Stormwater
Manual".
FLOODWAY: The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting
technical data in the flood insurance study (as described in section
10-2-2 of this code).
FULLY RECONSTRUCTED: Areas where impervious surfaces have been removed down to
the underlying soils (in-situ/natural soils). Activities such as structure
renovation, mill, and overlay projects, and other pavement rehabilitation
projects that do not expose the underlying soils beneath the structure,
pavement, or activity are not considered fully reconstructed. Maintenance
activities such as catch basin repair/replacement, utility repair/replacement,
pipe repair/replacement, lighting, and pedestrian ramp improvements are not
considered fully reconstructed.
GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE: An array of practices at multiple scales that manage wet
weather and maintain or restore natural hydrology by infiltration,
evapotranspiration, stormwater reuse/harvesting, construction design, urban
forestry, green roofs, or other comparable measures. On a regional scale green
infrastructure is the preservation or restoration of natural landscape
features, such as forests, floodplains and wetlands, coupled with reducing the
overall imperviousness of a watershed.
HYDRIC SOILS: Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part of the
soil profile.
HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION: Macrophytic (large enough to be observed by the naked
eye) plant life growing in water, soil, or on a substrate that is at least
periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excessive water content.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the stormwater system.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: A nonstormwater discharge into the stormwater system or a
natural water, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Debris or other materials such as grass clippings, vegetative
materials, tree branches, earth fill, rocks, concrete chunks, metal, other
demolition or construction materials, or structures.
   B.   The disposal or misuse of chemicals or any other materials that would
degrade the quality of waters within the system, including, but not limited to,
chemicals (fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, etc.) or petroleum based
products (gasoline, oil, fuels, solvents, paints, etc.).
   C.   Erosion and sediment originating from a property and deposited onto
city streets, private properties or into the stormwater conveyance system,
including those areas not specifically covered under an approved stormwater
management plan or stormwater permit.
   D.   Failure to remove sediments transported or tracked onto city streets by
vehicles or construction traffic by the end of each working day.
   E.   Pet owners or custodians of pets must remove animal matter from public
and private property and properly dispose of feces in accordance with
subsection
3-3-2B of this article.
   F.   For the purposes of this chapter, illicit discharges do not include the
following, unless information is available to indicate otherwise:
Air conditioning condensate
Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges
Discharges from firefighting
Discharges from potable water sources
Diverted stream flows
Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands
Footing drains
Foundation drains
Individual residential car washing
Irrigation water
Landscape irrigation
Lawn watering
Rising groundwater
Roof drains
Springs
Street wash water
Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration
Uncontaminated pumped groundwater
Water from crawl space pumps
Water line flushing
   G.   Pool and spa water may be discharged to the stormwater system if it has
been properly dechlorinated and does not contain other chemicals, algae,
vegetation or debris.
IMPAIRED WATER(S): Waters identified as impaired by the Minnesota pollution
control agency and the United States environmental pollution control agency,
pursuant to section 303(d) of the clean water act (33 USC section 303(d)).
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, storage
areas; and concrete, asphalt, or gravel parking lots and roads. The city may
establish standards for exemptions or modifications to impervious surface area
as applied to pavers, pervious concrete or other materials that allow some
degree of stormwater infiltration.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA: The number of square feet of horizontal surface
covered by buildings and other impervious surfaces. All building measurements
shall be made between exterior faces of walls, foundations, columns or other
means of support or enclosure.
LAND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: The act of subdivision or platting properties for
personal use, adding value or for the purposes of resale. This includes the
construction and/or demolition of buildings, structures, roads, parking lots,
paved storage areas, and similar facilities.
LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY: Any land change that may result in soil erosion from
water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands within
the city's jurisdiction, including construction, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land. Within the context of
this chapter, "land disturbance activity" does not mean:
   A.   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and an
individual's home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work, which will not
result in sediments entering the stormwater system.
   B.   Additions or modifications to existing single- family structures that
result in creating under five thousand (5,000) square feet of exposed soil or
impervious surface and will not result in sediments entering the stormwater
system.
   C.   Construction, installation, and maintenance of trees, fences, signs,
posts, poles, and electric, telephone, cable television, utility lines or
individual service connections to these utilities, which result in creating
under five thousand (5,000) square feet of exposed soil or impervious surface
and will not result in sediments entering the stormwater system.
   D.   Tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural, or
silvicultural (forestry) crops.
   E.   Construction activity does not include a disturbance to the land of
less than five acres for the purpose of routine maintenance performed to
maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, and original purpose
of the facility. Routine maintenance does not include activities such as
repairs, replacement and other types of non-routine maintenance.
   F.   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have otherwise required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, except for the emergency. If such a
plan would have been required, then the disturbed land area shall be shaped and
stabilized in accordance with the city's requirements as soon as possible.
LANDOWNER: Any person holding title to or having a divided or undivided
interest in land.
LINEAR PROJECT: Construction of new or fully reconstructed roads, trails,
sidewalks, or rail lines that are not part of a common plan of development or
sale. For example, roads being constructed concurrently with a new residential
development are not considered linear projects because they are part of a
common plan of development or sale.
LOCAL DETENTION: Detention intended to serve only the developing area in
question and no areas outside of the development boundaries. As such it is
under the control of one owner or group of owners. This is also known as on
site detention.
LOCAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM: The storm drainage system which transports the minor and
major stormwater runoff to the major stormwater system and serving only the
property within the development boundaries, under the control of one owner or
group of owners. This is also known as the on site drainage system.
MANAGEMENT PRACTICE: A practice or combination of practices to control erosion
and water quality degradation.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, pipes, or storm drains.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM/STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (NPDES/
SDS) PERMIT: Any permit or requirement enforced pursuant to the clean water act
as amended for the purposes of controlling water pollution to include the MPCA
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), industrial stormwater (ISW)
multisector and construction stormwater (CSW) permits regulating stormwater
discharges.
NATURAL WATER: A river, stream, pond, channel or ditch.
NONCOMPLIANCE FEE: The administrative penalty, or fee, for reinspection of a
property which may be assessed to a permittee, landowner, developer or their
contractor(s) for noncompliance with the provisions and/or conditions of an
approved stormwater plan and/or permit or the violation of any other provisions
contained in this chapter.
NONSTORMWATER: A discharge not composed entirely of stormwater.
ON SITE DETENTION: Also known as local detention system.
ON SITE DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Also known as local drainage system.
OUTLET: Any discharge point, including storm sewers, into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
OWNER OR OCCUPANT: Any person owning or using a lot, parcel of land, or
premises connected to and discharging stormwater into the stormwater system of
the city, and who pays for and is legally responsible for the payment of
stormwater rates or charges made against the lot, parcel of land, building or
premises, if connected to the stormwater system or who would pay or be legally
responsible for such payment.
PERMANENT COVER: Means "final stabilization". Examples include grass, gravel,
asphalt, and concrete. See also definition of Final Stabilization.
PERMANENT DEVELOPMENT: Any buildings, structures, landscaping and related
features constructed as part of a development project approved for construction
or constructed prior to the passage date hereof.
PERMANENT FACILITIES: Those features of a stormwater management plan which are
part of any natural or constructed stormwater system that requires periodic
maintenance to retain their operational capabilities. This includes, but is not
limited to, storm sewers, infiltration areas, detention areas, channels,
streets, etc.
PERMIT: Within the context of this rule a "permit" is a written warrant or
license granted for construction, subdivision approval, or to allow land
disturbing activities.
PERMITTEE: Any person who applies for and receives approval of stormwater plan
and/or permit from the city.
PERSON: Any developer, individual, firm, corporation, partnership, franchise,
association, owner, occupant of property, or agency, either public or private.
PUBLIC STORM SEWER: A storm sewer located entirely within publicly owned land
or easements.
REDEVELOPMENT: Any construction activity where, prior to the start of
construction, the area(s) to be disturbed have fifteen percent (15%) or more
impervious surface(s).
REGIONAL DETENTION: Detention facilities provided to serve an area outside the
development boundaries. A "regional detention" site generally receives runoff
from multiple stormwater sources and serves an area of approximately one
quarter section.
REGIONAL FLOOD: Also known as base flood or 100-year flood (as described in
section
10-2-2 of this code).
RETENTION FACILITY: A natural or manmade structure that provides for the
storage of all or a portion of stormwater runoff.
RUNOFF: The rainfall, snowmelt, dewatering, or irrigation water flowing over
the ground surface and into open channels, underground storm sewers, and
detention or retention ponds.
SALT STORAGE: Bulk storage as regulated by this chapter, is defined as storage
of 20 tons of salt for use during winter conditions.
SEDIMENT: Solid material or organic material that, in suspension, is being
transported or has been moved by air, water, gravity, or ice, and deposited at
another location.
SEDIMENT CONTROL: The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
development site. Examples of sediment control practices include, but are not
limited to, silt fences, sediment traps, earth dikes, drainage swales, check
dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm drain inlet protection, and
temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.
SIGNIFICANT REDEVELOPMENT: Alterations of a property that changes the
"footprint" of a site or building in such a way that results in the disturbance
of over one acre of land. This term is not intended to include activities,
which would not be expected to cause adverse stormwater quality impacts and
offer no new opportunity for stormwater controls, such as exterior remodeling.
SITE: The entire area included in the legal description of the parcel or other
land division on which the land development or land disturbing activity is
proposed in the stormwater plan or permit application.
STABILIZE: To make the site steadfast or firm, minimizing soil movement by
mulching and seeding, sodding, landscaping, placing concrete, gravel, or other
measures.
STABILIZED: The exposed ground surface after it has been covered by sod,
erosion control blanket, riprap, pavement or other material that prevents
erosion. Simply sowing grass seed is not considered stabilization. Ground
surfaces may be temporarily or permanently stabilized (see also definition of
Final Stabilization).
STATE: The state of Minnesota.
STORM SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying stormwater, surface runoff, and
drainage, excluding sewage and industrial wastes.
STORMWATER: Precipitation runoff, stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and any
other surface runoff and drainage. "Stormwater" does not include construction
site dewatering.
STORMWATER DETENTION: Temporary storage of stormwater runoff in ponds, parking
lots, depressed grassy areas, rooftops, buried underground tanks, etc., for
future or controlled release. Used to delay and attenuate flow.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The planned set of public policies and activities
undertaken to regulate runoff and reduce erosion, and maintain or improve water
quality under various specified conditions within various portions of the
drainage system. It may establish criteria for controlling peak flows and/or
runoff volumes, for runoff detention and retention, or for pollution control,
and may specify criteria for the relative elevations among various elements of
the drainage system. Stormwater management is primarily concerned with limiting
future flood damages and environmental impacts due to development, whereas
flood control aims at reducing the extent of flooding that occurs under current
conditions.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CRITERIA: Specific guidance provided to the engineer/
designer to carry out drainage and stormwater management policies. An example
might be the specification of local design hydrology and use of the design
storm.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document containing the requirements identified
by the city in article B of this chapter, that when implemented will provide
solutions to stormwater management problems that may occur as a result of the
proposed development or land disturbing activity. A stormwater permit is not
required as part of, but may be included in a stormwater management plan.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: Physical facilities that collect, store, convey,
and treat stormwater runoff in urban areas. These facilities normally include
detention and retention facilities, streets, storm sewers, inlets, open
channels, and special structures, such as inlets, manholes, and energy
dissipaters.
STORMWATER PERMIT: A permit issued by the city in accordance with this chapter
after the approval and acceptance of the stormwater management plan. A permit
must be acquired prior to initiating land development, land disturbing, or
other activities which result in an increase in stormwater quantities,
degradation of stormwater quality, or restriction of flow in any storm sewer
system, open ditch or natural channel, stormwater easement, water body or
wetland outlet within the city's jurisdiction.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A joint stormwater and erosion
and sediment control plan that is written as a prerequisite to obtaining an
NPDES/SDS Minnesota pollution control agency stormwater permit for construction
activity, that when implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land
and off site nonpoint pollution. It involves both temporary and permanent
controls. The SWPPP, which draws its information from a stormwater management
plan and is typically condensed, must be incorporated into the construction
grading plans for the project.
STORMWATER RETENTION: Storage designed to eliminate or reduce the frequency of
subsequent surface discharge. Wet ponds are the most common type of retention
storage (though wet ponds may also be used for detention storage).
STRUCTURAL STORMWATER BMPs: A stationary and/or permanent BMP designed,
constructed and operated to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into
stormwater.
STRUCTURE: Anything manufactured, constructed, or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures, earthen
structures, roads, parking lots, and paved storage areas.
SUBDIVISION: Any tract of land divided into building lots for private, public,
commercial, industrial, etc., development for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit development.
SYSTEM CHARGE OR ASSESSMENT: A charge for connecting an outlet to a regional
stormwater management facility, typically a pond. The charge is normally
assessed to recover the proportional cost of constructing a regional pond or
stormwater treatment facility.
TEMPORARY PROTECTION: Short term methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples
of such protection are straw, mulch, erosion control blankets, wood chips, and
erosion netting.
UNDEVELOPED LAND: Land that in its current state has not been impacted by
significant land disturbance activities, annexed into the city or subdivided
into multiple ownership lots and is typically zoned agricultural.
URBAN AREA: Land associated with, or part of, a defined city or town. This
chapter applies to urban or urbanizing, rather than rural areas.
USER: Any person who discharges, causes, or permits the discharge of stormwater
into the city's stormwater management system.
VIOLATION: The wilful or negligent act of noncompliance with the conditions
attached to an approved stormwater plan and/or permit, or any other provisions
contained in this chapter, subject to enforcement and penalty or noncompliance
fees.
WATERCOURSE: The natural path for the flow of water where there is sufficient
natural and accustomed runoff to form and maintain a distinct and defined
channel or an open channel facility that has been constructed for such purpose.
This shall include any easements obtained for the purposes of runoff
conveyance.
WATER QUALITY VOLUME: The volume of stormwater runoff which must be captured
and treated prior to discharge from a developed site after construction is
complete per the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Permits.
WATERS OF THE STATE: All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
WATERSHED DISTRICT: The Buffalo Red River watershed district.
WATERSHED MASTER PLAN: The plan that an engineer/designer formulates to manage
urban stormwater runoff for a particular project or drainage area. It typically
addresses such subjects as characterization of the existing and future site
development, land use, and grading plan, peak rates of runoff, flow duration,
runoff volumes for various return frequencies, locations, criteria and sizes of
detention or retention ponds and conveyances; runoff control features; land
parcels, easement locations, opinions of probable costs, measures to enhance
runoff quality, salient regulations, and how the plan addresses them, and
consistency with secondary objectives such as public recreation, aesthetics,
public safety, and groundwater recharge. It may be submitted to regulatory
officials for their review for adoption.
WET POND: A retention facility which includes a permanent pool of water used
for the purposes of providing for the treatment of stormwater runoff.
WETLANDS: Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems (excluding
drainage ditch bottoms) where the water table is usually at or near the surface
or the land is covered by shallow water. For purposes of this definition,
wetlands must have the following three (3) attributes:
   A.   A predominance of hydric soils;
   B.   Are inundated or saturated by the surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
   C.   Under normal circumstances support the prevalence of such vegetation.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 8-24-2020; Ord. 2022-14, 9-12-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-2-2 of this code.
3-8A-3: SCOPE:
   A.   Illicit Discharge And Illicit Connection:
      1.   Illicit Discharges: It shall be considered an offense for any person
to cause or allow an illicit discharge into waters of the state, including the
city stormwater system, or any natural water.
      2.   Illicit Connection: It shall be considered an offense for any person
to construct, operate or maintain an illicit connection.
      3.   Cleanup Of Release Of Material: Any person responsible for a
facility or operation that has information of any known or suspected release of
material that is causing or may cause an illicit discharge into the stormwater
system, shall take steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of
such release. In the event of hazardous materials being released contact
emergency services and the Minnesota state duty officer.
   B.   Land Disturbing Activity Requiring A Stormwater Management Plan: Any
person, firm, sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, state agency, or
political subdivision proposing subdivision or plat approval, a building permit
or any land disturbance activity within the city must submit a stormwater
management plan and/or a stormwater permit application to the city engineer
unless a waiver is provided in accordance with this section.
No subdivision or plat approval shall be issued until a stormwater management
plan or a waiver of the approval requirements has been obtained in strict
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. No building permit shall be
issued until approval of a stormwater permit or a waiver of the permit
requirements has been obtained in strict conformance with the provisions of
this chapter. No land shall be disturbed until the permit is approved by the
city and conforms to the standards set forth herein.
A stormwater management plan may also be required in some situations as
determined by the city engineer (i.e., development exceeding the allowable
impervious areas as established within title 10 or within an existing
subdivision with documented flooding problems associated with stormwater
runoff, or development occurring on a large lot within a subdivision where a
watershed master plan was previously developed).
A stormwater management plan may, but is not required to, include analysis of
stormwater quality and quantity that would allow impervious areas that exceed
those outlined within title 10. Analysis will include but is not limited to
review of applicable parameters in section
3-8C-4 and impacts to right-of-way and private property. A stormwater
management plan approved by the city engineer will establish the maximum
impervious surface. The impervious surface may only exceed the standards in
title 10 by a maximum of ten percent (10%).
Exemptions to the stormwater management plan and/or stormwater permit
requirements of this section include any part of a subdivision that is included
in a plat that has been approved by the city council and recorded with the
register of deeds on or before the effective date of this article. A stormwater
permit for land disturbing activities on such properties may still be required,
as determined by the city engineer, and such activities are still subject to
other compliance requirements in accordance with this article:
      1.   A stormwater management plan is not required for individual lots or
properties located within a subdivision or plat for which a stormwater
management plan has already been approved or in areas included within a
watershed master plan area. This exemption is subject to the city engineer's
consideration and approval. Stormwater permits, however, are required subject
to the other exemptions noted in this section;
      2.   A parcel for which a building permit has been approved on or before
the effective date of this chapter and an NPDES/SDS permit was not required;
      3.   The installation of any of the following: a fence, sign, trees or
shrubs, telephone and electric poles and other kinds of posts or poles, except
where such uses are prohibited by easement or stormwater conveyance
requirements;
      4.   Any land disturbance activity not associated with building
construction that will affect less than five thousand (5,000) square feet of
undeveloped land. A stormwater permit will not be required unless the proposed
project will result in sediments entering the stormwater system;
      5.   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property.
   C.   Land Disturbing Activity Involving The Construction Of A Single-Family
Or Two-Family Dwelling: Construction of single- family or two-family dwellings
must comply with in place BMPs and any existing permitted SWPPP for the
subdivision, including NPDES/SDS permit requirements. A stormwater permit and
compliance with the single-family residential construction erosion/sediment
control standards is also required.
   D.   Installation And Repair Of Utility Service Lines:
      1.   At project sites that require permit coverage where a utility
contractor is not the site owner or operator, each utility contractor must
comply with the provisions of the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
for the project their construction activities will impact. Each utility
contractor must ensure that their activities do not render ineffective, the
erosion prevention and sediment control best management practices (BMPs) for
the site. Should a utility contractor damage or render ineffective any
temporary BMPs for the site, the utility contractor must repair or replace such
BMPs within twenty four (24) hours upon discovery of the damaged BMP. Should a
utility contractor damage or render ineffective any permanent BMPs for the
site, the utility contractor must repair or replace such BMPs within seven (7)
days of completion of utility installation on the site. The utility contractor
will be responsible for a BMP that includes mulch with seed or sod and must
provide maintenance, including any watering necessary to ensure the
establishment of the sod or mulch with seed. The establishment period for a BMP
that includes sod or mulch with seed shall be thirty (30) days, after which, if
the area does not have an acceptable level of establishment, the utility
contractor must resod or reseed until satisfactory establishment is achieved.
      2.   At project sites where a utility contractor is the site owner or
operator, and the utility company disturbs one or more acres of soil for the
purpose of installation of utility service lines, including, but not limited
to, residential electric, gas, telephone and cable lines, the utility company
must apply for permit coverage from the city and state prior to commencement of
construction.
      3.   Utility contractors working in a street right of way to repair
existing or install new utilities and disturbing less than one acre shall
obtain an excavation stormwater permit before commencing work. The utility
contractor is required to provide appropriate inlet protection and sediment
control during the course of the work so as to ensure the storm sewer system is
protected from pollution. The utility contractor is also required to provide
street sweeping as necessary to ensure that sediments resulting from their
activity do not enter the stormwater system following construction. The street
shall be swept within one working day of completion of utility installation on
the site. All disturbed vegetation shall be replaced with mulch, seed or sod
within seven (7) days of completion of utility installation on the site. The
city will provide guidance regarding acceptable temporary protection BMPs for
inlets and methods to stabilize the exposed soil areas until they meet the
definition of "final stabilization".
   E.   Culverts And Drainage Ditches: Property owners shall provide and
maintain culverts and ditches as required in section
8-1-1 of this code.
   F.   Waivers: The city engineer may waive any requirement of this article
upon making a finding that compliance with the requirement will involve an
unnecessary hardship, and the waiver of such requirement is not contrary to the
objectives in this article. The city engineer may require as a condition of the
waiver, such dedication or construction, or agreement to dedicate or construct,
as may be necessary to adequately meet the said standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 8-24-2020)
3-8A-4: MANAGEMENT OF SITE VEGETATION:
All landowners shall provide for the installation and maintenance of vegetation
on their property in accordance with the following criteria, regardless as to
whether or not a stormwater management plan or stormwater permit has been
approved or is necessary under this chapter:
   A.   Use Of Impervious Surfaces: No person shall apply items included in the
definition of "illicit discharge" on impervious surfaces or within stormwater
drainage systems with impervious liners or conduits.
   B.   Unimproved Land Areas: Except for driveways, sidewalks, patios, areas
occupied by structures, landscaped areas, or areas that have been otherwise
improved, all areas shall be covered by plants or vegetative growth.
   C.   Use Of Pervious Surfaces: No person shall deposit grass clippings,
leaves, or other vegetative materials, with the exception of normal mowing or
weed control, within natural or manmade watercourses, wetlands, or within
wetland buffer areas. No person shall deposit items included in the definition
of "illicit discharge" except as noted above.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation and subject
the landowner to the enforcement provisions, penalties and noncompliance fees
outlined in article F of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8A-5: MANAGEMENT OF SALT STORAGE:
This section applies to all temporary and permanent indoor and outdoor bulk
deicer storage facilities including salt piles, salt bag storage, sand piles
and other storage of deicing materials.
   A.   Salt stored outdoors must be covered at all times.
      1.   When not using a permanent roof, a waterproof impermeable, flexible
cover must be placed over all salt storage piles. The cover must prevent runoff
and leachate from the outdoor salt storage piles. The cover must be secured to
prevent removal by wind or other storm events.
   B.   Salt storage areas must be located on an impervious surface.
   C.   Best management practices must be implemented to reduce exposure when
transferring material to and from salt storage areas. (Ord. 2022-14, 9-12-2022)
ARTICLE B. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN; APPLICATION AND REVIEW
SECTION:
3-8B-1: Application And Content
3-8B-2: Application Fee
3-8B-3: Plan Review
3-8B-4: Duration
3-8B-5: Conditions Of Approval
3-8B-1: APPLICATION AND CONTENT:
A written stormwater management plan application shall be filed with the city
engineer as required by this article to facilitate site plan review prior to
the start of land disturbing activities. The application shall include a
statement indicating the grounds upon which the approval is requested, that the
proposed use is permitted in the underlying zoning district, and adequate
evidence showing the proposed use will conform to the standards set forth in
this article, the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Permits, and/or
the "Minnesota Stormwater Manual" (manual). Prior to applying for approval of a
stormwater management plan, it is recommended that the applicant have the
stormwater management plan reviewed by any affected public agencies. While it
is not necessary it is desirable in some cases to combine the stormwater
management plan and stormwater permit submittals in a single application.
Two (2) sets of legible copies of the drawings and required information,
including but not limited to, project name, project location, total acreage to
be disturbed, and names of the responsible person for the proposed construction
activity shall be submitted to the city engineer and shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the city to document the payment of all required fees for
processing and approval as set forth in section
3-8B-2 of this article. Plans shall be prepared to a scale appropriate to the
site of the project and suitable for performing the review.
At a minimum, the stormwater management plan shall contain the information
outlined in city standards and/or the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency permits which includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   BMPs to minimize erosion.
   B.   BMPs to minimize the discharge of sediment and other pollutants.
   C.   Buffer zones from special waters, impaired waters, and restricted
waters.
   D.   BMPs for dewatering activities.
   E.   BMPs for stockpiles.
   F.   Procedures for site inspection and records of rainfall events.
   G.   Procedures for BMP maintenance.
   H.   Procedures for management of solid and hazardous waste on each project
site.
   I.   Final stabilization of the project.
   J.   Temporary sediment basins.
   K.   Permanent Stormwater Management BMPs.
   L.   Any applicable federal, state or local permits.
A written stormwater management report discussing the pre- and post-development
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis, erosion and sedimentation control during and
after construction, protective measures for proposed and existing structures,
and water quality concerns shall also be provided. For additional information
refer to article C of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-14,
9-12-2022)
3-8B-2: APPLICATION FEE:
A processing and approval fee adopted by the city council shall accompany all
applications for stormwater management plan approval. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8B-3: PLAN REVIEW:
A stormwater management plan meeting the requirements of this article shall be
submitted to the city engineer for review and to determine its compliance with
the standards as outlined in article C of this chapter. The city engineer shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the stormwater management plan. If a
particular stormwater management plan involves a complex application or has the
potential for significant controversy, the city engineer may bring the proposed
stormwater management plan before the city council for consideration and public
comment. Prior to initiating construction as outlined in the stormwater
management plan, the applicant must also obtain a stormwater permit. (Ord.
2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8B-4: DURATION:
Approval of any plan submitted under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire one year after the date of approval unless construction has commenced in
accordance with the plan. However, if prior to the expiration of approval, the
applicant makes a written request to the city engineer for an extension of time
to commence construction setting forth the reasons for the requested extension,
the city engineer may grant one extension of not greater than one year. The
city engineer shall acknowledge receipt of any request for an extension within
fifteen (15) days. The city engineer shall make a decision on the extension
within thirty (30) days of receipt. Any plan may be revised following the same
procedure for an original approval. Provided, the city engineer may waive all
or part of the application fee if the revision is minor. Any denied or expired
application may be resubmitted with additional information addressing the
concerns contained within the denial or the reason why the original plan was
allowed to expire. The resubmitted application shall be subject to all
applicable fees and review time lines as if it were a new application. (Ord.
2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8B-5: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
A stormwater management plan may be approved subject to compliance with
conditions reasonable and necessary to ensure that the requirements contained
in this chapter are met. Such conditions may, among other matters, limit the
size, kind or character of the proposed development, require the construction
of structures, drainage facilities, storage basins and other facilities,
require replacement of vegetation, establish required monitoring procedures,
stage the work over time, require alteration of the site design to ensure
proper buffering, require the acquisition or dedication of certain lands or
easements, and require the conveyance to the city of Moorhead or other public
entity of certain lands or interests therein for stormwater system facilities.
The city engineer may specify special requirements or conditions for specific
major or minor watersheds within the city and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction. The nature of these requirements will be subject to the unique
environmental and natural resource environment of each subwatershed. Approval
of a plan shall bind the applicant to perform and comply with all the
requirements and conditions of the plan prior to commencing or concurrent with
any land disturbing activities. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE C. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN; APPROVAL STANDARDS
SECTION:
3-8C-1: General
3-8C-2: Stormwater Manual
3-8C-3: Models/Methodologies/Computations
3-8C-4: Stormwater Management Criteria For Permanent Facilities And BMPs
3-8C-5: Operation, Maintenance And Inspection
3-8C-6: Easements
3-8C-7: Plan Applicability
3-8C-8: Plan Amendments
3-8C-1: GENERAL:
This article describes the approval standards used to evaluate a proposed
stormwater management plan. The city engineer shall not approve a stormwater
management plan which fails to meet these standards. Other applicable
standards, such as state and federal standards, shall also apply. If the
standards of different agencies conflict, the more restrictive standards shall
apply.
It shall be the applicant's responsibility to obtain any required permits from
other governmental agencies having any jurisdictional authority over the work
to be performed. Typically, such agencies include, but are not limited to, the
Buffalo Red River watershed district (BRRWD), Clay County, the Minnesota
department of natural resources (DNR), the Minnesota department of
transportation (MnDOT), the Minnesota pollution control agency (MPCA), the
state historic preservation office (SHPO), the U.S. army corps of engineers,
the U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA), federal emergency management
agency (FEMA), and others. The city may choose to obtain some of the required
permits. The applicant will be notified which permits are to be obtained by the
city. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-2: STORMWATER MANUAL:
The "Minnesota Stormwater Manual" (manual) contains the principal standards and
design criteria for developing an effective and acceptable stormwater
management plan. The manual contains detailed criteria for hydrologic
evaluations, the design of stormwater management system facility components,
water quality protection standards, and instructions for the development of an
erosion and sedimentation control plan. Upon request the city will provide
requirements for easements and rights of way, standard forms to be used, and
standard construction details approved by the city. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-3: MODELS/METHODOLOGIES/COMPUTATIONS:
Other than those outlined in the manual, any hydrologic models and/or design
methodologies used to determine runoff conditions and to analyze stormwater
management structures and facilities, shall be approved in advance by the city
engineer. All stormwater management plans, drawings, specifications, and
computations for stormwater management facilities submitted for review shall be
signed by a professional engineer registered in the state of Minnesota. This
requirement will be met as part of a properly completed stormwater management
plan. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-4: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT CRITERIA FOR PERMANENT FACILITIES AND BMPs:
New development and redevelopment projects with land disturbance of greater
than or equal to one acre, including projects less than one acre that are part
of a larger common plan of development or sale must include stormwater
management BMPs in the stormwater management plan.
Permanent stormwater control facilities included as part of the final design
for land development and redevelopment shall be addressed in the stormwater
management plan and shall meet the following criteria to the maximum extent
practicable (MEP):
   A.   Postconstruction Stormwater Management: Must incorporate any
combination of BMPs designed with accepted engineering practices and in
accordance with the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permits.
      1.   Treat the water quality volume on any project, except as provided in
this article, where the sum of the new impervious surface and fully
reconstructed impervious surface equals one or more acres.
      2.   For non-linear projects, the water quality volume must be calculated
as one (1) inch times the sum of the new and fully reconstructed impervious
surface.
      3.   Linear Projects: The water quality volume must be calculated as the
larger of one (1) inch times the new impervious surface or one-half (0.5) inch
times the sum of the new and the fully reconstructed impervious surface. Volume
reduction practices must be considered in accordance with this article. Where
the entire water quality volume cannot be treated within the existing right-of-
way, a reasonable attempt to obtain additional right-of-way, easement, or other
permissions to treat stormwater must be made and documented during the project
planning process. Volume reduction practices are not required if the practices
are cost prohibitive. If additional right-of-way, easements, or other
permission cannot reasonably be obtained, owners of construction activity must
maximize the treatment of the water quality volume, where practicable, prior to
discharge from the MS4.
   B.   Volume reduction practices (e.g., infiltration) to retain the water
quality volume on-site must be considered first when designing the permanent
stormwater treatment system. Wet sediment basins and filtration systems are not
considered volume reduction practices. If infiltration is prohibited, other
volume reduction practices, a wet sediment basin, or a filtration basin may be
considered.
   C.   Limitations: Infiltration is prohibited or restricted in accordance
with the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permits.
   D.   Pre- Versus Post-Hydrological Response Of Site: An applicant shall
install or construct, on or for the proposed land disturbing activity or
development activity, all stormwater management facilities necessary to manage
runoff such that increases in flow under the design conditions will not occur
that could exceed the capacity of the outlet, or the stormwater management
system, into which the site discharges or that would cause the stormwater
management system to be overloaded or accelerate channel erosion as a result of
the proposed land disturbing activity or development activity. Under no
circumstances shall the 2-, 10-, or 100-year developed peak flow exceed the 2-,
10-, or 100-year existing peak flow without prior written approval by the city
engineer. For regional detention or stormwater management system, the city
engineer shall recommend a proposed system charge or assessment to be approved
by the city council based upon an approved watershed master plan and an
analysis of required drainage systems, projected costs and flood protection
benefits provided to those properties directly or indirectly impacted by the
regional detention or stormwater management system.
   E.   Infiltration: Infiltration options include, but are not limited to,
infiltration basins, infiltration trenches, rainwater gardens, bioretention
areas without underdrains, swales with impermeable check dams, and natural
depressions designed in accordance with the applicable Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency permits and/or Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
   F.   Filtration System: Filtration options include, but are not limited to:
sand filters with underdrains, biofiltration areas, swales using underdrains
with impermeable check dams and underground sand filters designed in accordance
with the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permits and/or Minnesota
Stormwater Manual.
   G.   Wet Sedimentation Basin:
      1.   Wet sedimentation basins must be designed in accordance with the
applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency permits with the following
exception.
         a.   Additional depth below the minimum depth of (3) feet must be
provided for long-term sediment storage as established in the applicable
maintenance.
   H.   Regional Wet Sedimentation Basin:
      1.   When the entire water quality volume cannot be retained onsite for
volume reduction purposes, regional wet sedimentation basins can be used or
created, provided they are constructed basins, not a natural wetland or water
body.
      2.   The regional basin must conform to all requirements for a wet
sedimentation basin and in the applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
permits.
   I.   Off-site Treatment: Where the owner and/or operator of a construction
activity cannot cost effectively meet the conditions for postconstruction
stormwater management on the site of the original construction activity, the
owner shall provide or obtain off-site treatment projects at other site
locations within the city.
      1.   Off-site projects must be selected in the following order of
preference with approval by the city:
         a.   Locations that yield benefits to same receiving water that
receives runoff from the original construction site.
         b.   Locations within the same department of natural resources (DNR)
catchment area as the original construction site.
         c.   Locations in the next adjacent DNR catchment area upstream.
         d.   Locations anywhere within the city's jurisdiction.
      2.   Off-site projects must involve the creation of new structural
stormwater BMPs, the retrofit of existing structural stormwater BMPs, or the
use of a properly designed regional structural stormwater BMP.
      3.   Routine maintenance of structural stormwater BMPs already required
cannot be used to meet mitigation requirements.
      4.   Off-site projects shall be completed within twenty four (24) months
after the start of the original construction activity.
      5.   If the off-site project is a private structural BMP and the city is
not responsible for long term maintenance of the project, the city will require
a written and recorded document identifying the responsibility for maintenance.
      6.   If the city receives payment from the owner/operator of a
construction activity for off-site treatment purposes in lieu of meeting
postconstruction stormwater management requirements, the city shall apply the
payment received to a public stormwater project in compliance with the MS4
permit.
   J.   Natural Features Of Site: The applicant shall give consideration to
reducing the need for stormwater management system facilities by incorporating
the use of natural topography and land cover such as wetlands, ponds, natural
swales and depressions as they exist before development to the degree that they
can accommodate the additional water flow without compromising the integrity or
quality of these natural features.
   K.   Postconstruction Stormwater Management Strategies: The following
stormwater management practices shall be investigated when developing a
stormwater management plan:
      1.   Natural infiltration of precipitation and runoff on site, if
suitable soil profiles can be created during site grading. The purpose of this
strategy is to encourage the development of a stormwater management plan that
encourages natural infiltration. This includes providing as much natural or
vegetated area on the site as possible, minimizing impervious surfaces, and
directing runoff to vegetated areas rather than onto adjoining streets, storm
sewers and ditches;
      2.   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions;
      3.   Stormwater detention facilities; and
      4.   Stormwater retention facilities (on a case by case basis).
      5.   Other facilities requested by the city engineer.
A combination of successive practices may be used to achieve the applicable
minimum control requirements specified. Justification shall be provided by the
applicant for the method selected.
   L.   Adequacy Of Outlets: The adequacy of any outlet used as a discharge
point for proposed stormwater management system must be assessed and documented
to the satisfaction of the city engineer. To the extent practicable, hydraulic
capacities of downstream natural channels, storm sewer systems, or streets
shall be evaluated to determine if they have sufficient conveyance capacity to
receive and accommodate post development runoff discharges and volumes without
causing increased property damages or any increase in the established base
flood elevation. If a floodplain or floodway has not been established by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA), the applicant shall provide a
documented analysis and estimate of the base flood elevation as certified by a
professional engineer registered in the state of Minnesota. In addition,
projected velocities in downstream natural or manmade channels shall not exceed
that which is reasonably anticipated to cause erosion unless protective
measures acceptable to the city engineer are approved and installed as part of
the stormwater management plan. The assessment of outlet adequacy shall be
included in the stormwater management plan.
   M.   Stormwater Detention/Retention Facilities: Stormwater detention or
retention facilities proposed to be constructed in the stormwater management
plan shall be designed according to the most current technology as reflected in
the manual. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 9-12-2022)
3-8C-5: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION:
All stormwater management systems shall have a written plan of operation and
maintenance that assures continued effective removal of pollutants carried in
stormwater runoff. The city engineer may inspect all public and private
stormwater management systems at any time. The city engineer shall retain
enforcement powers for assuring adequate operation and maintenance activities
through written agreements, permit conditions, penalties, noncompliance orders
and fees.
   A.   Private Structural BMPs: Long term maintenance of any structural BMP
that the city determines to be private shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   The owner, operator and/or permittee must obtain any necessary
easements or other property interests to allow access to the permanent
stormwater management system for inspection and maintenance purposes.
      2.   Recorded maintenance agreements must define inspection and
maintenance responsibility.
      3.   The operation and maintenance agreements must include terms that
transfer maintenance responsibilities to subsequent owners.
      4.   Sites must provide vehicular access (typically 8 feet or wider) and
personnel access for maintenance.
      5.   The owner and/or operator shall perform routine maintenance and
conduct yearly inspections to assure the structural BMP is functioning properly
and to assure effective removal of pollutants carried in stormwater runoff.
      6.   Inspection records shall be submitted to the city engineer upon
request.
      7.   The city shall be allowed access to the permanent structural BMP to
conduct inspections.
      8.   If the city determines that the BMP is not functioning properly or
not being maintained properly a written notice will be sent to the owner and/or
operator. The notice will identify maintenance and/or repairs needed and
specify a schedule for completion. If the structural BMP is not repaired within
the schedule provided the city may hire a contractor and assess the cost to the
owner and/or operator.
      9.   If site conditions that are designed to protect/preserve structural
stormwater BMPs and site features that are implemented to comply with
postconstruction stormwater management. If site configurations or structural
stormwater BMPs change, causing decreased structural stormwater BMP
effectiveness, new or improved structural stormwater BMPs must be implemented
to ensure the conditions for postconstruction stormwater management continue to
be met. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-6: EASEMENTS:
Easements may be required as conditions to the approval of a stormwater
management plan and/or permit. If a stormwater management plan involves
directing some or all of the site's runoff to a drainage easement, the
applicant or his designated representative shall obtain from the property
owners any necessary easements or other property interests concerning the
flowing of such water. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-7: PLAN APPLICABILITY:
A stormwater management plan approval issued under this chapter runs with the
land and is a condition of plat or development approval. Any landowner or
subsequent landowner of any parcel within the plat or development area must
comply with the plan or any approval, condition, revision or modification of
the plan. Failure to comply with this plan shall constitute a violation and
subject the permittee, developer, and/or landowner to the enforcement
provisions, penalties and noncompliance fees. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8C-8: PLAN AMENDMENTS:
Stormwater management plans may be amended only by a written request submitted
to the city engineer. This request shall contain the reason for the change and
documentation related to any additional change in projected impacts, which may
result from amendment approval. Amendment requests submitted prior to final
approval of a plan application shall be considered part of the original
submittal. Amendment requests filed after plan approval shall be considered
following the same procedures as if it were a new application and subject to
all applicable fees and review periods. Provided, the city engineer may waive
all or part of the fees if the amendment is minor. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE D. STORMWATER PERMITS
SECTION:
3-8D-1: Permits Required
3-8D-2: Construction Plans And Specifications
3-8D-3: Construction Activities
3-8D-4: Final Stormwater Management Plan
3-8D-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to initiate any land development activity, land disturbing
activity, or other activities which may result in an increase in stormwater
quantities, degradation of stormwater quality, or restriction of flow in any
storm sewer system, open ditch or natural channel, stormwater easement, water
body, or wetland outlet within the jurisdiction of the city, without having
first complied with the terms of this chapter. Other activities include those
outlined in section
3-8A-3 of this chapter.
   A.   Permit Application: All persons subject to meeting the requirements and
needing to obtain a stormwater permit shall complete and file with the city
engineer an application in the form prescribed by the city engineer and
accompanied by a fee established by the city council. The permit application
may need to be accompanied by a stormwater management plan as prescribed under
article B of this chapter, if such a plan has not been previously approved.
Permit applications may be denied if the applicant is not in compliance on
another stormwater permit currently in effect.
   B.   Stormwater Permit: A stormwater permit must be issued from the city
engineer for any land disturbing projects greater than five thousand (5,000)
square feet. Activities that disturb one acre of land or more must also obtain
a Minnesota pollution control agency NPDES/SDS general stormwater permit for
construction activity. Commencing earthwork on a project prior to plan or
permit approval is considered a violation of this chapter.
   C.   Permit Delays: The city engineer may withhold granting approval of a
stormwater permit until all issues associated with the site are resolved to the
satisfaction of the city engineer. Permits may be conditioned with delays such
that work cannot begin until a specified date or until after the site is
inspected.
   D.   Permit Conditions: Permits issued are subject to all provisions of this
article and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established
by the city council. Permits may contain, but are not limited to, any of the
following conditions:
      1.   A system charge or assessment for a stormwater outlet utilizing a
regional stormwater management system in accordance with a cost determined by
the city engineer and approved by the city council for said outlet;
      2.   Limits on the maximum rate of allowable stormwater discharge;
      3.   Requirements for water quality of stormwater discharge;
      4.   Requirements for the installation, operation and maintenance of
stormwater facilities including detention/retention or other treatment
facilities;
      5.   Requirements for erosion and sediment control, including measures to
be implemented and other procedures necessary to protect the stormwater system;
      6.   Compliance schedule;
      7.   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the city engineer
of any land disturbing activities which have the potential for increasing the
rate of stormwater discharge resulting in degradation of stormwater quality;
      8.   Easements as outlined in section
3-8C-6 of this chapter; and
      9.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city engineer to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Permit Duration: Permits must be issued for a time period specified by
the city engineer. The applicant, if necessary, shall apply for permit renewal
a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the applicant's
existing permit. The terms and conditions of a permit are subject to
modification by the city engineer during the term of the permit as set forth in
subsection F of this section. Any denied or expired application may be
resubmitted with additional information addressing the concerns contained
within the denial or the reason why the original permit was allowed to expire.
The resubmitted application shall be subject to all applicable fees and review
time lines as if it were a new application.
   F.   Permit Modification: The city engineer for just cause upon thirty (30)
days' notice may modify stormwater permits. Just cause shall include, but not
be limited to:
      1.   Promulgation of new federal, state or local regulatory requirements;
      2.   Changes in the requirements of this chapter;
      3.   Changes in the process used by the permittee or changes in discharge
rate, volume, or character; and
      4.   Changes in the design or capability of receiving stormwater systems.
The applicant must be informed of any proposed changes in the permit at least
thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new
conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
   G.   Permit Amendments: Stormwater permits may be amended (by applicant)
only by a written request submitted by the permittee to the city engineer. This
request shall contain the reason for the change and documentation related to
any additional impacts which may result from amendment approval. Amendment
requests submitted prior to issuance of a stormwater permit shall be considered
part of the original submittal. Amendment requests filed after permit approval
shall be considered and reviewed under the same procedures and guidelines used
for the stormwater permit applications under this article. Depending on the
extent of the amendment, the city engineer may waive any additional fees for a
permit amendment review.
   H.   Permit Transfer: A permit runs with the property it covers, until the
permitted activities are completed, and is transferable to new landowners in
its entirety or by parcel, with each parcel being subject to the permit and any
conditions which apply to that parcel. Land transfers must be reported to the
city engineer within seven (7) days of the transfer. This section refers to
city issued permits and does not release the applicant or owner from transfer
requirements of an NPDES/SDS permit including, but not limited to, a notice of
termination/permit modification.
   I.   Monitoring Facilities: The city engineer may require the applicant to
provide and operate at the applicant's expense a monitoring facility to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurements of each stormwater system
component. Where at all possible, the monitoring facility shall be located on
the applicant's property as opposed to being located on public rights of way.
Ample room must be allowed for accurate flow measuring and sampling and the
facility shall be kept in a safe and proper operating condition.
   J.   Inspection: The city engineer may inspect the stormwater management
system of any permittee to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to the safe and easy access of such an
inspection shall be promptly removed upon the inspector's request. The cost of
providing such access shall be borne by the permittee. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8D-2: CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   The plans and specifications prepared for the construction of the
stormwater management system must be:
      1.   Consistent with the stormwater management plan approved by the city
engineer, including any special provisions or conditions.
      2.   In conformance with the requirements of the city of Moorhead's
municipal specifications, "Minnesota Stormwater Manual" and any other necessary
permits required and issued by other governmental agencies.
      3.   Signed by a professional engineer registered in the state of
Minnesota.
      4.   Submitted to the city engineer for approval.
      5.   Approved by the city engineer prior to commencing construction.
   B.   The construction grading and erosion/sediment control plans, in a
format acceptable to the city engineer, shall contain a drawing or drawings
delineating the features incorporated into the stormwater pollution prevention
plan (SWPPP) including details of perimeter protection, construction phasing,
storm drain inlet protection, erosion control measures, temporary and final
stabilization measures, including all BMPs. In addition the construction
specifications shall contain technical provisions describing erosion,
sedimentation, and water control measures to be utilized during and after
construction as well as to define the entities responsible for the installation
and maintenance of the BMPs. The project SWPPP must be incorporated into the
construction specification documents. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8D-3: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
Construction operations must at a minimum comply with any applicable federal or
state permit and SWPPP in addition to the following best management practices:
   A.   Site Dewatering: Water pumped from the site shall be treated by
temporary sedimentation basins, grit chambers, sand filters, upflow chambers,
hydrocyclones, soil concentrators or other appropriate controls as deemed
necessary. Water may not be discharged in a manner that causes erosion,
sedimentation, or flooding on the site, on downstream properties, in the
receiving channels, or in any wetland.
   B.   Waste And Material Disposal: All waste and unused building materials
(including garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, petroleum based
products, paints, toxic materials, or other hazardous materials) shall be
properly disposed of off site and shall not be allowed to be carried by runoff
into a receiving channel, storm sewer system, or wetland.
   C.   Tracking Management: Each site shall have roads, access drives and
parking areas of sufficient width, length and surfacing to minimize sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any material deposited by
vehicles or other construction equipment onto a public or private road shall be
removed (not by flushing) before the end of each working day.
   D.   Water Quality Protection: The construction contractor, including the
general contractor and all subcontractors, shall be required to control oil and
fuel spills and chemical discharges to prevent such spills or discharges from
entering any watercourse, sump, sewer system, water body, or wetland.
   E.   Site Erosion And Sedimentation Control: Construction operations must
include erosion and sedimentation control measures meeting accepted design
criteria, standards and specifications contained in the Minnesota pollution
control agency's stormwater permit for construction activity, "Minnesota
Stormwater Manual" or other standards determined by the city engineer.
   F.   Concrete And Other Washout Waste: All liquids and solid waste generated
by washout operations (concrete, stucco, paint, form release oils, curing
compounds and other construction materials) related to the construction
activity must not touch the ground, and the containment must be designed so
that it does not result in runoff from the washout operations or area. Liquid
and solid wastes must be disposed of properly and in compliance with Minnesota
pollution control agency rules. A sign must be installed adjacent to each
washout facility to inform concrete equipment operators to utilize the proper
facilities.
   G.   Temporary Sediment Basin:
      1.   When a construction site is located greater than one mile from an
impaired water where ten (10) or more acres of disturbed soil drain to a common
location a temporary sediment basin must be provided to treat runoff before it
leaves the construction site.
      2.   When a construction site is located within one mile of an impaired
water where five (5) or more acres of disturbed soil drain to a common location
a temporary sediment basin must be provided to treat runoff before it leaves
the construction site.
   H.   Soil Stabilization: Stabilization of all exposed soils areas must be
initiated immediately to limit soil erosion but in no case completed later
than:
      1.   Fourteen (14) days after construction activity has temporarily or
permanently ceased when greater than one mile from an impaired water.
      2.   Seven (7) days after construction activity has temporarily or
permanently ceased when within one mile of an impaired water.
   I.   Inspections Of The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan's Measures: At
a minimum, such inspections shall be done weekly by the permittee (general
contractor, developer or the developer's designated representative), and within
twenty four (24) hours after every storm or snowmelt event large enough to
result in runoff from the site (approximately 0.5 inch or more in 24 hours). At
a minimum, these inspections shall be done during active construction. (Ord.
2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8D-4: FINAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN:
Upon completion of all required construction activities, the permittee shall
submit to the city engineer a final stormwater management plan to document any
changes or material modifications to the original stormwater management plan
concept. The final stormwater management plan shall contain record drawings
showing the final configuration for all improvements as constructed. A
professional engineer registered in the state of Minnesota shall certify the
final stormwater management plan and record drawings. If no significant or
material changes occurred between the approved plan and final construction, the
record drawings need not be submitted to the city engineer. The permittee,
however, is responsible to retain copies of said drawings and provide them to
the city engineer upon request. Failure to provide these drawings upon written
request constitutes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE E. SUSPENSIONS, REVOCATIONS AND STOP WORK ORDERS
SECTION:
3-8E-1: Stormwater Violations And Reporting
3-8E-2: Emergency Suspension
3-8E-3: Nonemergency Revocation Of A Permit
3-8E-4: Notification
3-8E-5: Hearing
3-8E-6: Legal Action
3-8E-1: STORMWATER VIOLATIONS AND REPORTING:
   A.   Stormwater management plan, stormwater permit, and nonpermit related
stormwater violations include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Commencing site grading or preparation work without first having
obtained an NPDES/SDS stormwater permit for construction activity, or a city
stormwater permit.
      2.   Noncompliance with the requirements or conditions attached to an
approved SWPPP of an NPDES/SDS stormwater permit for construction activity,
stormwater management plan, a city stormwater permit, or other standards
established by the city engineer, under authority of the city.
      3.   The causing or allowing of an illicit discharge in the city
stormwater system, a natural watercourse, stormwater easement, stream or river.
      4.   Failure to remove sediments transported or tracked onto city streets
by vehicles or construction traffic by the end of each working day.
      5.   Failure to install and maintain the erosion control measures (BMPs)
on a construction site as outlined in the approved stormwater permit, SWPPP and
its amendments, or other standards established by the city engineer, under
authority of the city engineer.
      6.   Other violations or issues as noted or described throughout this
chapter.
   B.   The city engineer shall document the reporting of a violation in
writing. Such violations may be obtained via a site inspection or a public
complaint followed by a site inspection. At a minimum the complaint file shall
contain the name and address of the owner, date, time and nature of the
violation as well as other information as deemed necessary to document site
conditions, including photos and personal conversation records. In the case of
a public complaint the file shall also, if voluntarily provided, contain the
name, address and phone number of the individual filing the complaint. In
addition, the complaint file shall contain records documenting subsequent site
inspections, compliance actions and a memo outlining the determination of the
city engineer and any enforcement action taken and/or any noncompliance fees
levied. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8E-2: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
The city engineer may for cause order the suspension of a stormwater management
plan, or a stormwater permit when the city engineer determines that an actual
or threatened discharge presents or may present an imminent or substantial
danger to the health or welfare of persons downstream, or substantial danger to
the environment. If such permits are suspended, all work in the area covered by
the permit shall cease immediately. If any person is notified of such
suspension and then fails to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
city shall commence whatever steps are necessary to obtain compliance. The city
engineer may reinstate the stormwater management plan, or stormwater permit
upon proof of compliance with all plan or permit conditions. The city engineer
may also order the immediate suspension of all work if a person or entity is
conducting an activity for which a permit is needed without first obtaining the
appropriate permit. The suspension shall remain in effect until the required
permit(s) is obtained.
Whenever the city engineer orders the suspension of a plan or permit and/or
orders all work to stop pursuant to the emergency provisions of this section,
the city engineer shall serve notice on the landowner and/or permittee
personally, or by registered or certified mail. The landowner and/or permittee
has the right to an informal hearing before the city engineer upon request made
in writing and filed with the city engineer. The informal hearing must be held
within five (5) days of the request. Following the hearing, the city engineer
may affirm, modify or rescind the order.
Any person dissatisfied with an order the city engineer issued pursuant to this
section may request a hearing pursuant to section
3-8E-5 of this article by filing a written request for a hearing with the city
engineer, within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the order. The hearing must be
held within ten (10) days of receipt of the request. A request for a hearing
filed pursuant to this section does not stay the order while the hearing is
pending. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8E-3: NONEMERGENCY REVOCATION OF A PERMIT:
   A.   A stormwater management plan or stormwater permit may be revoked
following notice. An opportunity for a hearing in accordance with sections
3-8E-4 and
3-8E-5 of this article will be provided. The city engineer may revoke a plan or
permit for cause, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Violation of any terms or conditions of the applicable plan or
permit;
      2.   False statements on any required reports and applications;
      3.   Obtaining a plan or permit by misrepresentation or failure to
disclose fully all relevant facts; or
      4.   Any other violation of this chapter or related ordinance.
   B.   The city engineer may revoke a stormwater management plan or stormwater
permit and order a temporary work stoppage to bring a project into compliance.
Notice of such an order shall be given and a hearing opportunity provided in
accordance with sections
3-8E-4 and
3-8E-5 of this article. Under a revoked plan or permit no additional permit
approvals (i.e., excavation, etc.) shall be issued for any properties within
the area included within the plan or permit boundaries until approved by the
city engineer. In addition the city may deny new permits (i.e., stormwater,
excavation, etc.) to the permittee or landowner in violation for projects in
other locations until current permits are brought into compliance. (Ord. 2015-
01, 2-9-2015)
3-8E-4: NOTIFICATION:
Whenever the city engineer finds that any person has violated or is violating
this article, stormwater management plan or stormwater permit and/or its
conditions, or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained herein, the
city engineer shall serve upon such person a written notice stating the nature
of the violation. Within seven (7) days of the date of the notice, unless a
shorter time frame is set by the city engineer due to the nature of the
violation, a plan satisfactory to the engineer for correction thereof must be
submitted to the city engineer. If a satisfactory plan is not submitted in a
timely manner, or the terms of such plan are not followed, the city engineer
may order all work in the affected area to cease until submittal of such a plan
and compliance with the plan is happening. If a person disagrees with the
determination of the city engineer, that person, within fifteen (15) days of
the order of the city engineer, may request a hearing as provided in section
3-8E-5 of this article. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8E-5: HEARING:
If a person requests a hearing to contest the order of the city engineer, a
notice of hearing must be served on the person appealing the order, specifying
the time and place of a hearing to be held regarding the order of the city
engineer, and directing the person appealing to show cause why the order of the
city engineer should not be upheld. Unless the engineer has suspended the
permit or ordered work to stop pursuant to section
3-8E-2 of this article, any order stopping all work shall be stayed until after
the hearing. The notice must be served personally or by registered or certified
mail at least five (5) days before the hearing. The evidence submitted at the
hearing shall be considered by the city manager or his/her designee, who then
shall either uphold, modify or rescind the order of the city engineer. An
appeal of the decision may be taken to the district court according to law.
Provided, that if the city manager or his/her designee upholds the order
stopping work, such work suspension shall not be stayed as a result of the
appeal to the district court. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8E-6: LEGAL ACTION:
The discharge of deposited or eroded materials onto public rights of way or
public storm sewer systems within the city of Moorhead shall be considered an
offense and may result in an order to remove such materials. Removal of such
materials shall be at the landowner's and/or permittee's expense based on the
properties from which they originated. The landowner and/or permittee shall
have three (3) days after receiving the notice to remove these materials. If
such materials are not removed, others may remove them under the city
engineer's direction and any associated costs shall be the responsibility of
the landowner or permittee and, if unpaid within ninety (90) days, may be
recommended for assessment action by the city council against property of the
violator.
If any person commences any land disturbing activities which result in
increased stormwater quantity or stormwater quality degradation into the city's
stormwater management system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state requirements or any order of the city engineer, the city
attorney may commence action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
including administrative or criminal penalties. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE F. ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-8F-1: Right Of Entry
3-8F-2: Enforcement, Penalty And Noncompliance Fees
3-8F-3: Costs Of Damage
3-8F-4: City Attorney Fees And Costs
3-8F-5: Falsifying Information
3-8F-6: Penalties
3-8F-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The city engineer is authorized to conduct inspections deemed necessary to
ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter and any and all
applicable state permits and regulations. The owner, operator and/or permittee
shall promptly allow the city and their authorized representatives, upon
presentation of credentials to:
   A.   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining information,
examination of records, conducting investigations, inspections or surveys.
   B.   Bring such equipment upon the permitted site as is necessary to conduct
such inspections, surveys and investigations.
   C.   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda pertaining to
activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of
this permitted site.
   D.   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures.
   E.   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to stormwater
pollution control measures.
   F.   Conduct inspections for illicit connections and discharges.
   G.   Inspect privately owned permanent stormwater management systems as
often as may be necessary to determine that the system is functioning properly.
Any temporary or permanent obstruction to the safe and easy access of such an
inspection shall be promptly removed upon the inspector's request. The cost of
providing such access shall be borne by the owner, operator and/or permittee.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8F-2: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTY AND NONCOMPLIANCE FEES:
Any person who is found to have violated an order of the city engineer made in
accordance with this chapter, or who has failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder,
is guilty of an offense. Each day on which a violation occurs or continues to
exist shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. All land use and
stormwater permits may be suspended until the applicant has corrected the
violation. A schedule for noncompliance and reinspection fees, which may be
imposed for violation of this chapter, shall be approved by the city council.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8F-3: COSTS OF DAMAGE:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or who initiates an
activity which causes a deposit, obstruction, or damage or other impairment to
the city's stormwater management system is liable to the city for any expense,
loss, or damage caused by the violation or the discharge. The city may bill the
person violating this chapter the costs for any cleaning, repair or replacement
work caused by the violation of stormwater discharge, and if unpaid within
ninety (90) days may result in assessment of such costs against the violator's
property. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8F-4: CITY ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS:
In addition to the civil penalties provided herein, the city may recover
reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter fees, and other expenses
of litigation by appropriate action against the person found to have violated
this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8F-5: FALSIFYING INFORMATION:
Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certification in any applicable record, report, plan, permit or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who knowingly
falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring devices
or method required under this chapter shall be guilty of an offense. (Ord.
2015-01, 2-9-2015)
3-8F-6: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, in addition to other
sanctions set forth above, may be charged with a criminal misdemeanor, and if
convicted may be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code, or alternatively, may be charged with an administrative
violation pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2015-01, 2-9-2015)
ARTICLE G. STORMWATER UTILITY AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE SYSTEM
SECTION:
3-8G-1: Findings
3-8G-2: Administration And Budget
3-8G-3: Definitions
3-8G-4: Establishment Of Stormwater Utility Fund
3-8G-5: Purposes Of The Fund
3-8G-6: Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge
3-8G-7: Classification Of Property For Purposes Of Determination Of Service
Charge
3-8G-8: Base Rate
3-8G-9: Charges For Tax Exempt Properties; Exemptions
3-8G-10: Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge Credits
3-8G-11: Requests For Correction Of The Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge
3-8G-12: Rate Structure Effective Date
3-8G-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The city maintains a system of underground and surface stormwater
management facilities including, but not limited to, inlets, conduits,
manholes, channels, ditches, drainage easements, retention and detention
basins, and other components as well as natural waterways.
   B.   The stormwater system in the city needs regular maintenance and
improvements.
   C.   Water quality of the Red River of the north can be degraded due to
erosion and the discharge of nutrients, metals, oil, grease, toxic materials,
and other substances into and through the stormwater system.
   D.   The public health, safety, and welfare can be adversely affected by
periodic poor water quality within the Red River of the north and flooding that
results from inadequate management of both the quality and quantity of
stormwater.
   E.   All real property in the city either uses or benefits from the
maintenance of the stormwater system.
   F.   The extent of use of the stormwater system by each property is
dependent on factors that influence runoff, including land use and the amount
of impervious surface on the property.
   G.   The costs of improving, maintaining, operating, and monitoring the
stormwater system should be allocated, to the extent practicable, to all
property owners based on the impact of runoff from the impervious areas of
their property on the stormwater management system.
   H.   Management of the stormwater system to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare requires adequate revenues, and it is in the interest of
the public to finance stormwater management adequately with a user charge
system that is reasonable and equitable so that each user of the system pays to
the extent to which he contributes to the need for it. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009,
eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-2: ADMINISTRATION AND BUDGET:
The city engineer, under the supervision and authority delegated by the city
manager, shall advise the city manager and city council on matters related to
the stormwater management program and to make recommendations to the city
manager and city council concerning the adoption of ordinances, resolutions,
policies, guidelines and regulations in furtherance of the objectives of the
stormwater management program. The city engineer shall undertake the following
activities to implement a stormwater management program:
   A.   Prepare studies, acquire data, prepare master plans, analyze policies
or undertake such other planning and analyses as may be needed to address
concerns related to stormwater within the city and to further the objectives of
the stormwater management program, and to undertake activities designed to
communicate, educate and involve the public and citizens in addressing these
issues or in understanding and abiding by the elements of the stormwater
management program.
   B.   Design, construct, operate, maintain, expand, or replace any element or
elements of the public storm sewer system, including recommending the
acquisition of easements by eminent domain, and recommending acquisition of
title or easements other than by eminent domain, over any real or personal
property that is part of, will become part of, or will protect the public storm
sewer system, or is necessary or convenient for the implementation of the
stormwater management program.
   C.   Regulate, establish standards, review, inspect the design, construction
or operation and maintenance of any stormwater management system that is under
the control of private owners, whether or not such systems are required or
intended for dedication to the public sewer system, when such systems have the
potential to impact, enhance, damage, obstruct or affect the operation and
maintenance of the public storm sewer system or the implementation of the
stormwater management program.
   D.   Regulate, establish standards, review and inspect land use or property
owner activities when such activities have the potential to affect the
quantity, timing, velocity, erosive forces, quality, environmental value or
other characteristics of stormwater which would flow into the stormwater
management system or in any way affect the implementation of the stormwater
management program.
   E.   Undertake any activities related to stormwater management when such
activities are recommended by applicable federal, state or local agencies or
when such activities are required by any permit, regulation, ordinance, or
statute governing stormwater or water quality concerns.
   F.   Analyze the cost of services and benefits provided by the stormwater
utility and the structure of fees, service charges, credits, and other revenues
on an annual basis and make recommendations to the city council regarding same.
   G.   Undertake authorized expenditures as required to implement these
activities, including all costs of capital improvements, operations and
maintenance, debt services, and other costs as required.
The city council shall, as part of its annual budget process, adopt capital and
operating budgets for the stormwater utility. The operating budget shall
conform with state law, city policy and generally accepted accounting
practices. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings indicated:
BASE RATE: The cost of service charge on a base unit. The monthly cost of
service charge for a single-family residential property in the city equals the
base rate.
BASE UNIT: The sample based average impervious surface area associated with a
single-family residential property in the city.
CHARGE OR COST OF SERVICE CHARGE OR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE: The monthly
charge established under this chapter and charged to owners of parcels or
pieces of real property to fund the costs of stormwater management and of
operating, maintaining, and improving the stormwater system in the city.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer for the city of Moorhead, Minnesota, or his or
her designee.
DEVELOPED PROPERTY: Real property altered from its natural state by the
addition of any improvements such as buildings, structures, or other impervious
area.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, storage
areas; and concrete, asphalt, or gravel parking lots and roads. The city may
establish standards for exemptions or modifications to impervious surface area
as applied to pavers, pervious concrete or other materials that allow some
degree of stormwater infiltration.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA: The number of square feet of horizontal surface
covered by buildings and other impervious surfaces. All building measurements
shall be made between exterior faces of walls, foundations, columns or other
means of support or enclosure.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A multiple-family dwelling consisting of two (2) or
more dwelling units including manufactured homes. Multiple-family dwellings
service multiple-family tenants with a common water meter(s).
MULTIPLE-FAMILY TENANT: Any single-family dwelling unit within a multiple-
family dwelling consisting of two (2) or more family dwelling units including
manufactured homes in manufactured home parks.
OTHER DEVELOPED PROPERTY: Metered nonresidential, nonmultiple- family,
nonmultiple-family tenant, industrial and nonindustrial business enterprises,
schools, parks, government and public customers. Nonmetered commercial tenant
units are considered to be an integral part of the metered customer and are not
considered individually.
PROPERTY OWNER: The property owner of record as listed in Clay County records.
A property owner includes any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, or
group of individuals acting as a unit, and any trustee, receiver, or personal
representative.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: Any single-family dwelling or multiple- family tenant
with an individual water meter.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: The planning, design, construction, regulation,
improvement, repair, maintenance, and operation of facilities and programs
relating to water, floodplains, flood control, grading erosion, tree
conservation, and sediment control.
STORMWATER SYSTEM: The system or network of storm and surface water management
facilities including, but not limited to, inlets, conduits, manholes, channels,
ditches, drainage easements, retention and detention basin, and other
components as well as all natural waterways.
STORMWATER UTILITY FUND OR FUND: The fund created by this article to operate,
maintain, and improve the city's stormwater management program.
UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY: Any property, including forest or agricultural land,
which has one-third (1/3) or less of the base unit of impervious surface area.
WATER: Any stormwater, surface water, snowmelt or groundwater. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-
27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-08, 8-24-2020)
3-8G-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF STORMWATER UTILITY FUND:
   A.   The stormwater management program is established and the stormwater
system is provided to protect the waterways and land in the city by controlling
flooding and to protect the natural environment. The costs of designing,
developing, improving, operating, maintaining, and monitoring the stormwater
system required in the city should, therefore, be allocated, to the extent
practicable, to all property owners based on their impact on the stormwater
system. In order to provide revenue to fund those costs and to fairly allocate
those costs, a stormwater utility fund ("the fund") is established.
   B.   All revenues collected from the cost of service charge, grants, permit
fees and other charges collected under this chapter shall be deposited to the
fund. The city council may make additional appropriations to the fund. All
disbursements from the fund shall be for the purposes of the fund as set forth
in section
3-8G-5 of this article. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-5: PURPOSES OF THE FUND:
The fund shall be used for the following purposes:
   A.   The acquisition by gift, purchase or condemnation of real and personal
property, and interests therein, necessary to construct, operate, and maintain
stormwater control facilities.
   B.   All costs of administration and implementation of the stormwater
management program, including the establishment of reasonable operating and
capital reserves to meet unanticipated or emergency stormwater management
requirements.
   C.   Engineering and design, debt service and related financing expenses,
construction costs for new facilities and enlargement or improvement of
existing facilities.
   D.   Operation and maintenance of the stormwater system.
   E.   Monitoring, surveillance, and inspection of stormwater control devices.
   F.   Water quality monitoring and water quality programs.
   G.   Retrofitting developed areas for pollution control.
   H.   Inspection and enforcement activities.
   I.   Billing and administrative costs.
   J.   Other activities, which are reasonably required. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-
2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-6: STORMWATER COST OF SERVICE CHARGE:
A monthly cost of service charge is imposed upon all real property in the city
to fund stormwater management programs. This service charge shall be known as
the stormwater cost of service charge or stormwater management fee. The charge
is based on: a) the extent to which each property creates a need for the
stormwater management program; b) the amount of impervious area on each
property; and c) the cost of implementing a stormwater management program.
(Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-7: CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY FOR PURPOSES OF DETERMINATION OF SERVICE
CHARGE:
   A.   Classifications: For purposes of determining the stormwater cost of
service charge all properties in the city are classified into one of the
following classes:
      1.   Single-family dwelling;
      2.   Multiple-family dwelling;
      3.   Other developed property; or
      4.   Undeveloped property.
   B.   Single-Family Dwelling Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge: The intensity
of development of most parcels of real property in the city classified as
single-family dwelling is similar and it would be excessively and unnecessarily
expensive to determine precisely the square footage of the improvements (such
as buildings, structure, and other impervious area) on each such parcel.
Therefore, all single-family dwelling properties in the city shall be charged a
flat stormwater cost of service charge, equal the base rate, regardless of the
size of the parcel or the improvements.
   C.   Multiple-Family Dwelling Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge: The charge
for multiple-family dwelling property in the city shall be the base rate
multiplied by the numerical factor obtained by dividing the total impervious
area (square feet) of the property by one base unit. That result will then be
indexed to a fee schedule, recommended by the city engineer and adopted by the
city council, that groups properties with similar ranges of impervious area
together. The impervious surface area of multiple-family dwelling property may
be determined through site examination, mapping information, aerial
photographs, and other available information. The minimum stormwater cost of
service charge for multiple-family dwelling property shall equal the base rate
for single-family dwelling property.
   D.   Other Developed Property Stormwater Cost Of Service Charge: The charge
for other developed property in the city shall be the base rate multiplied by
the numerical factor obtained by dividing the total impervious area (square
feet) of the property by one base unit. That result will then be indexed to a
fee schedule, recommended by the city engineer and adopted by the city council,
that groups properties with similar ranges of impervious area together. The
impervious surface area of other developed property may be determined through
site examination, mapping information, aerial photographs, and other available
information. The minimum stormwater cost of service charge for other developed
property shall equal the base rate for single-family dwelling property.
   E.   Undeveloped Property: Undeveloped property shall be exempt from the
stormwater cost of service charge. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009, eff. retroactive to
4-1-2009)
3-8G-8: BASE RATE:
The city council shall, by the city's fee schedule, establish the monthly base
rate and charge schedule for the stormwater cost of service charge. The base
rate shall be calculated to ensure adequate revenues to fund the costs of
stormwater management and to provide for the operation, maintenance, and
capital improvements of the stormwater system in the city. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-
2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-9: CHARGES FOR TAX EXEMPT PROPERTIES; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The council finds that all real property in the city contributes to
runoff and either uses or benefits from the maintenance of the stormwater
system. Therefore, except as otherwise provided in this section, all real
property in the city, including property that is tax exempt from property tax,
shall be charged the monthly stormwater cost of service charge.
   B.   Other developed property which is owned by the city shall not be exempt
from the charge. However, public rights of way, public trails, public streets,
public alleys, public sidewalks, and public lands and/or easements in or upon
which public storm or sanitary sewers are constructed and/or located shall be
exempt from the charge. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-10: STORMWATER COST OF SERVICE CHARGE CREDITS:
The city council may, by resolution, establish a system of credits recommended
by the city engineer, which may reduce the stormwater cost of service charge
for approved stormwater runoff reduction or treatment. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009,
eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-11: REQUESTS FOR CORRECTION OF THE STORMWATER COST OF SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   A property owner may request correction of the charge by submitting the
request in writing to the city engineer. Grounds for correction of the charge
include:
      1.   Incorrect classification of the property for purposes of determining
the charge;
      2.   Errors in the square footage of the impervious surface area of the
property;
      3.   Mathematical errors in calculating the charge to be applied to the
property;
      4.   Errors in the identification of the property owner of a property
subject to the charge; and
      5.   Mathematical errors in calculating credits pursuant to section
3-8G-10 of this article.
   B.   The city engineer shall make a determination within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the property owner's completed written request for correction
of the charge. The city engineer's decision on a request for correction of the
charge shall be final.
   C.   A property owner must comply with all rules and procedures adopted by
the city when submitting a request for correction of the charge and must
provide all information necessary for the city engineer to make a determination
on a request for correction of the charge. If a property owner alleges an error
under subsection A2 of this section, the request for correction must include a
certification by a registered engineer or professional land surveyor of the
impervious surface area of the property. Failure to comply with the provisions
of this subsection shall be grounds for denial of the request. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-
27-2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
3-8G-12: RATE STRUCTURE EFFECTIVE DATE:
The rate structure set forth within this article shall be effective January 1,
2006. All other provisions shall be effective immediately. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-
2009, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
ARTICLE H. PRIVATE CONNECTION TO A PUBLIC STORM SEWER
SECTION:
3-8H-1: Storm Sewer Connections
3-8H-1: STORM SEWER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit, General: No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public storm sewer
or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining an excavation and stormwater
permit from the city.
   B.   Permit Application: The owner or an agent of the owner shall make
application on a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   C.   Connection Costs: All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the private storm sewer shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the storm sewer.
   D.   Construction: The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of
a storm sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes (section
9-1-1 of this code) or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and
the current regulations of the state of Minnesota. In the absence of code
provisions or in application thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing and Materials
(ASTM) as approved by authorized city personnel shall apply. All connections
must be locatable in accordance with title 8, chapter 4 of this code and
Minnesota rules section 7560. Upon completion, the owner must provide record
drawings of the installation.
   E.   Inspection: The applicant for the excavation permit shall notify the
city when the private storm sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public storm sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of
authorized city personnel.
   F.   Erosion Control: All excavations must use best management practices
(BMP) to prevent sediment from entering the storm sewer system.
   G.   Safety And Restoration: All excavations for storm sewer installations
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to their original
condition or to a better condition in a manner satisfactory to the city (title
8, chapter 4 of this code). An excavation permit shall be required for all
excavations made in the areas of city streets, sidewalks, parkways and other
paved areas.
   H.   Maintenance Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
to maintain the private storm sewer from their property line up to and
including the point where it connects or discharges to the city storm sewer
system, whether it is a direct connection to a storm sewer or discharges
directly to a stormwater pond. This includes, but is not limited to, damaged
pipe and appurtenances, bank erosion, sinkholes around the private storm sewer
pipe, and the removal of any erodible materials that have entered the city
storm sewer system from the private sewer connection. If the maintenance of the
storm sewer requires excavation of the public right of way, the owner shall
notify the engineering department and obtain an excavation permit prior to
excavating. The contractor hired by the owner to repair the storm sewer shall
follow the other requirements of subsection D of this section.
   I.   Payment For Costs As Special Assessment:
      1.   Although the cost of maintaining a private storm sewer is that of
the owner, the city will allow the owner to pay for the cost of the maintenance
of a private storm sewer as a special assessment under the following
conditions:
         a.   The maintenance involves excavation of a public street.
         b.   The owner's maintenance cost is in excess of five hundred dollars
($500.00).
         c.   The engineering department has reviewed and approved the invoice
from the contractor hired by the owner.
         d.   The owner petitions the city to assess the cost within seven (7)
days of the completion of the repair work.
      2.   If the above conditions are met, the city will initially pay the
costs and spread as an assessment the principal amount of the owner's costs
over ten (10) equal annual installments, with the interest rate on the
assessment being set in the year the work is completed at the rate set for
similar special assessments in that calendar year. (Ord. 2009-8, 7-27-2009,
eff. retroactive to 4-1-2009)
CHAPTER 9
POOLS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Permits Required
3-9-3: Inspections
3-9-4: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Permits
3-9-5: Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
POOL: Any structure, basin, chamber or tank containing an artificial body of
water for swimming, diving, relaxation, or recreational use including special
purpose pools and wading pools.
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL POOL: Any pool connected with a single-family residence or
owner occupied duplex located on private property under the control of the
homeowner, the use of which is limited to swimming or bathing by members of a
family or their invited guests.
PUBLIC POOL: Any pool other than a private residential pool, that is: a) open
to the public generally, whether for a fee or free of charge; b) open
exclusively to members of an organization and their guests; c) open to
residents of a multi-unit apartment building, apartment complex, residential
real estate development, or other multi-family residential area; d) open to
patrons of a hotel or lodging or other public accommodation facility; or e)
operated by a person in a park, school, licensed childcare facility, group
home, motel, camp, resort, club, condominium, manufactured home park, or
political subdivision with the exception of swimming pools at family daycare
homes licensed under section 245A.14, subdivision 11, paragraph (2) of the
Minnesota Statutes Annotated. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-9-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall begin construction of a public pool or shall
substantially alter or reconstruct any public pool without first having
submitted plans and specifications to the state of Minnesota for review and
approval. The state will not issue such approval to construct, alter, remodel
or license to operate a public pool unless the pool conforms with regulations
adopted by section 144.1222, Minnesota Statutes Annotated, and Minnesota rules
4717.15 through 4717.3975, as such regulations may be from time to time
amended, supplemented or replaced.
   B.   No persons shall operate or maintain a public pool unless they have
obtained a permit to operate such pool from the Clay County. Only persons who
comply with this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
Such permits are not transferable.
   C.    A permit shall be required for all new private residential pools,
which are custom built, installed below ground, or installed above ground that
meet or exceed both five thousand (5,000) gallons and twenty four inches (24")
in depth.
      1.    Belowground Private Residential Pools: Application for a permit to
construct a belowground private residential pool shall be accompanied by plans
of sufficient detail to show:
         a.    The proposed location, setback distance to property lines, and
its relationship to other principal buildings on the lot.
         b.    The size of the pool.
         c.    Fencing to be installed or existing fence, self-closing and
self-latching devices to be installed, and other fixtures existing on the lot,
including utility location and trees.
         d.    The location, size and types of equipment to be used in
connection with the pool, including, but not limited to, filter unit, pump,
fencing, and the pool itself.
         e.   Pools installed prior to October 1, 2024 with an approved pool
permit shall be legal non-conforming uses. The previously required retractable
hard surface cover must be utilized when the pool is not in use if no fence is
present. If the retractable hard surface cover is not utilized in accordance
with this provision, the property owner will be subject to penalties outlined
in section
3-9-5.
      2.    Aboveground Or Portable Private Residential Pools: Application for
a permit to construct an above ground or portable private residential pool
shall be accompanied by plans of sufficient detail to show:
               a.    The proposed location, setback distance to property lines,
and its relationship to other principal buildings on the lot.
               b.   The size of the pool.
               c.    Fencing to be installed or existing fence, self-closing
and self-latching devise to be installed, and other fixtures existing on the
lot, including utility location and trees.
               d.    The location, size and types of equipment to be used in
connection with the pool, including, but not limited to, filter unit, pump,
fencing, and the pool itself.
               e.   Pools installed prior to October 1, 2024 with an approved
pool permit shall be legal non-conforming uses. The previously required ladder
must be removed or retracted when the pool is not in use if no fence is
present. If the ladder is not removed in accordance with this provision, the
property owner will be subject to penalties outlined in section
3-9-5.
   D.    Private residential pools that require a permit shall be completely
enclosed by a fence or wall measuring a minimum of four feet (4') in height.
The opening between the bottom of the fence or wall and the ground or other
surface shall be not more than four inches (4"). All gates shall be equipped
with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate or
otherwise inaccessible to small children. Fences may be placed directly around
the pool area.
(Ord. 2010-9, 8-23-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024; Ord. 2024-08, 9-23-2024)
3-9-3: INSPECTIONS:
The county is authorized to conduct such inspections as it deems necessary to
ensure compliance with all provisions of this chapter and any and all
applicable Minnesota department of health regulations, as such regulations may
be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, and shall have right of
entry at any reasonable hour to the swimming pool for this purpose. (Ord. 2010-
6, 7-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
3-9-4: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
The county may deny, suspend or revoke any permit defined in this chapter for
failure to comply with the regulations or in the event the permit has been
obtained through nondisclosure, misrepresentation or misstatement of a material
fact in accordance with the provisions of section
2-1-10 of this code. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
3-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not to exceed two
hundred dollars ($200.00), or an administrative penalty pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 10
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND RECREATION CAMPING AREAS
SECTION:
3-10-1: General Provisions
3-10-2: Definitions
3-10-3: License Requirements
3-10-3-1: License For Manufactured Home Parks And Recreational Camping Areas
3-10-3-2: Exceptions To Other Parks
3-10-3-3: Application For License
3-10-3-4: License Fees
3-10-3-5: Zoning Permit Requirement
3-10-3-6: Conditions Of License
3-10-3-7: License Renewals
3-10-3-8: Revocation Of License
3-10-4: General Requirements
3-10-5: Skirting Or Extended Siding
3-10-6: Motor Vehicle Speed Limits
3-10-7: Plan Review For Future Construction
3-10-8: Inspections
3-10-9: Appeals
3-10-10: Penalties
3-10-11: Jurisdiction Of Local Law Enforcement
3-10-12: Registration
3-10-13: Manufactured Homes Manufactured Prior To July 1, 1972
3-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The provisions of this chapter are enacted to protect and
provide for the public health, safety and general welfare of the city.
   B.   Legal Authority: This chapter is enacted pursuant to certain Minnesota
statutes hereafter set forth, as such statutes may be from time to time
amended, supplemented or replaced. Specifically this chapter is authorized by
chapter 327, sections 327.14 - 327.28, which authorizes the Minnesota
department of health to regulate manufactured home parks and recreational
camping areas.
   C.   Jurisdiction: Any person, firm or corporation owning or operating a
manufactured home park or recreational camping area within the legal boundaries
of the city and not exempted in section
3-10-3-2 of this chapter shall be required to meet all of the provisions of
this chapter. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other provision of this chapter or any other applicable law, ordinance,
rule or regulation, the provision which establishes the higher standards for
the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The board of health which shall consist of the city council of the city
of Moorhead, which assumes the responsibilities of said board pursuant to
Minnesota statutes, section 145.913, as such statute may be from time to time
amended, supplemented or replaced.
DEPENDENT SITE: Recreational camping area sites which do not have sewer
connections and are dependent upon a central facility for this utility.
INDEPENDENT SITE: Recreational camping area sites which are provided with
individual sewer connections.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
(2) or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or
for compensation and includes any building, structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured
home park.
MANUFACTURED HOMES: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which,
in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein; except that the term
includes any structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to
which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary of the United States department of housing and urban development or
the head of any successor agency with responsibility for enforcement of federal
laws relating to manufactured homes, and complies with the standards
established under this chapter.
MUNICIPALITY: A city, town or township, village or county in Minnesota, however
organized.
PRIMARY LICENSE: The initial license issued by the board pursuant to its
agreement with the state commissioner of health to the first person, firm or
corporation to establish and maintain, conduct or operate a manufactured home
park or recreational camping area at any one location.
RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA: Any area, whether privately or publicly owned, used
on a daily, nightly, weekly or longer basis for the accommodation of five (5)
or more tents or recreational camping vehicles, free of charge or for
compensation.
RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE: Includes the following:
   A.   Any vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to be
used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses;
   B.   Any structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation;
   C.   Any portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel recreation and
vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle;
   D.   Any folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for travel,
recreation and vacation use.
RENEWAL LICENSE: A license issued by the board pursuant to its agreement with
the state commissioner of health to the person, firm or corporation operating a
previously licensed manufactured home park or recreational camping area.
SEASONAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any manufactured home park or recreational camping area
which operates for a continuous period of six (6) months (183 days) or less
during a calendar year.
YEAR ROUND ESTABLISHMENT: Any manufactured home park or recreational camping
area which operates on a year round basis, i.e., in excess of six (6) months
(183 days). (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
3-10-3-1: LICENSE FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREAS:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate a
manufactured home park or recreational camping area within the city without
first obtaining a license therefor from the city under the authority of the
board's agreement with the state commissioner of health. Any person, firm or
corporation desiring to operate either a manufactured home park or recreational
camping area on the same site in connection with the other, need only obtain
one license. The license shall state the number of manufactured home sites,
independent recreational camping sites and dependent recreational camping sites
allowed according to the city's approval. No renewal license shall be issued if
the number of sites specified in the application exceeds those of the original
application unless the plans for the sites are first approved by the city. Any
manufactured home park or recreational camping area located in more than one
municipality shall be dealt with as two (2) separate manufactured home parks or
camping areas. The license shall be conspicuously displayed in the office of
the manufactured home park or camping area. The license is not transferable as
to place or person. Each primary license or renewal license for year round
establishments shall expire on December 31 next following its issuance. (Ord.
2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-2: EXCEPTIONS TO OTHER PARKS:
   A.   State Parks: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to include any
of the state operated facilities within parks.
   B.   Manufactured Home Park: The term "manufactured home park" shall not be
construed to include manufactured homes, buildings, tents or other structures
temporarily maintained by any individual or company on premises associated with
a work project and used exclusively to house labor or other personnel occupied
in such work project.
   C.   Special Parks: Recreational camping area does not include children's
camps, industrial camps, migrant labor camps, as defined in Minnesota statutes
and state commissioner of health rules, United States forest service camps,
state forest service camps, state wildlife management areas or state owned
public access areas which are restricted in use to picnicking and boat landing.
   D.   Municipal Parks: Any manufactured home park or recreational camping
area owned or operated by any municipality or political subdivision of this
state shall meet all sanitary and safety provisions of this chapter, shall be
inspected as herein provided and make all reports as herein required of a
licensee. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for license to operate and maintain a manufactured home park or
recreational camping area shall be made to the city, at such office and in such
manner as may be prescribed by the council. The applicant for a primary license
or annual license shall make application in writing upon a form provided by the
city. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-4: LICENSE FEES:
All fees shall be set by the Moorhead city council in its fee schedule. (Ord.
2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-5: ZONING PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
The primary license application shall be accompanied by an approved local
zoning permit or a statement from the appropriate staff that a permit is not
required. The fees submitted for the primary license shall be retained by the
city even though the proposed project is not approved and a license is denied.
(Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Sanitary Facilities: During the pendency of the application for such
primary license, any change in the sanitary or safety facilities of the
intended manufactured home park or recreational camping area shall be
immediately reported in writing to the city through the office in which the
application was made. If no objection is made by the city to such change in
sanitary or safety facilities within sixty (60) days of the date such change is
reported, it shall be deemed to have the approval of the city.
   B.   Permit: When the plans and specifications have been approved, the city
shall issue an approval report permitting the applicant to construct or make
alterations pertaining to water and sewage treatment upon a manufactured home
park or recreational camping area and the appurtenances thereto, according to
the plans and specifications presented. Such approval does not relieve the
applicant from securing building permits in municipalities having a building
code; or from complying with any other municipal ordinance or ordinances,
applicable thereto, not in conflict with this chapter. When construction has
been completed in accordance with approved plans and specifications, the city
shall promptly cause the manufactured home park or recreational camping area
and appurtenances thereto to be inspected. If upon completion of the
inspection, it is found that the requirements of this chapter have been met by
the applicant, the primary license shall be issued forthwith in the name of the
city.
   C.   Denial Of Construction: If the application to construct or make
alterations upon a manufactured home park or recreational camping area and the
appurtenances thereto or a primary license to operate and maintain the same is
denied by the city, it shall be stated in writing the reason or reasons for
denying the application. If the objections can be corrected, the applicant may
amend the application and resubmit it for approval, and if denied, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the council. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-7: LICENSE RENEWALS:
License renewals shall be obtained on an annual basis. All license renewal
applications shall be submitted to the city on forms provided no later than
December 31 of the year preceding the year for which application is made.
Renewal licenses for manufactured home parks and recreational camping areas
which operate for a continuous period of six (6) months (183 days) or less
shall be issued effective the first day of the establishment's operation in the
calendar year for which the license is issued. Such renewal license shall
expire after the one hundred eighty third day from the effective date of the
license or on December 31 of the year in which the license was issued,
whichever occurs first. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-3-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
For serious or repeated violations of any of the requirements of this chapter
or state board of health compliance standards, the license may be permanently
revoked after an opportunity for a hearing before the appeals board has been
provided by the city. Prior to such action, the city shall notify the license
holder, in writing, advising that the license shall be permanently revoked at
the end of a five (5) day period. A license may be suspended for cause pending
its revocation or a hearing relative thereto. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-4: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The manufactured home park or recreational camping area must comply with the
provisions of sections 327.10 through 327.28, Minnesota Statutes Annotated, and
Minnesota rules sections 4630.0200 through 4630.2210. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-5: SKIRTING OR EXTENDED SIDING:
Manufactured homes shall be skirted or have extended siding between the bottom
of the manufactured home and the ground with a fireproof material harmonious
with the appearance of the home within three (3) months of the placement of the
manufactured home. Baled hay or straw shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-
2010)
3-10-6: MOTOR VEHICLE SPEED LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any type of vehicle to travel at a rate in excess of
ten (10) miles per hour while within the limits of a manufactured home park or
recreational camping area. The ten (10) mile per hour limit shall be clearly
posted throughout the manufactured home park or recreational camping area, and
may be enforced by the city. The city may, by ordinance, set and enforce in a
manufactured home park a speed limit which is higher than ten (10) miles per
hour, but which is not higher than thirty (30) miles per hour. The local speed
limit shall be clearly posted throughout the manufactured home park. (Ord.
2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-7: PLAN REVIEW FOR FUTURE CONSTRUCTION:
When an establishment in the city, licensed or to be licensed under the
provisions of this chapter is hereafter constructed or extensively remodeled, a
plan showing all work to be done and materials to be used shall be submitted to
and approved by the city before such work is begun. The plans and
specifications shall be drawn to scale, shall be legible and complete in all
details. The city shall review such plans and report its findings within a
reasonable amount of time of the date plans are received. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-
2010)
3-10-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Frequency Of Inspections: It shall be the duty of the city to inspect
every manufactured home park and recreational camping area as frequently as may
be necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. The person operating a
manufactured home park or recreational camping area shall, upon request of the
city, and after proper identification, permit access to all parts of the
establishment at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspection and shall
exhibit and allow copying of any records necessary to ascertain compliance with
this chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Suspension:
      1.   Whenever, upon inspection of any manufactured home park or
recreational camping area, the city finds that conditions or practices exist
which are in violation of any provision of this chapter, the city shall give
notice in writing to the operator of such business that unless such conditions
or practices are corrected within a reasonable period to be determined by the
city, the operator's license may be suspended. At the end of such period, the
city shall reinspect such manufactured home park or recreational camping area,
and if it is found that such conditions or practices have not been corrected,
written notice will be given to the operator that the latter's license has been
suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension of the license, such operator
shall immediately cease operation of the manufactured home park or recreational
camping area, and no person shall occupy any unit therein except the owner's
quarters.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the city from
suspending a license only as to such portion of the premises that do not comply
with the provisions of this chapter, and permitting the continued operation of
the remaining portions of such premises which do comply.
   C.   Emergency Orders: Whenever the city finds that an emergency exists
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, it may, without
notice or hearings, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and require that such action be taken as it deems necessary to meet the
emergency. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately but upon petition to the city, shall be afforded a
hearing before the appeals board.
   D.   Compliance: Construction, alterations and maintenance inspections must
be permitted by other appropriate officials as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the following ordinances:
      1.   The Moorhead zoning ordinance, title 10 of this code.
      2.   Building regulations of title 9 of this code. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-
2010)
3-10-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Purpose: The provisions of this section shall be used to address any
violations of this chapter or any requests to deviate from the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Authority: In any case where, upon application of responsible persons,
the council finds that by reason of exceptional circumstances, the strict
enforcement of any provisions of this chapter would cause undue hardship and
would be unreasonable, impractical or not feasible, the council, in its
discretion, may permit an appeal therefrom. Such appeals may be reviewed
periodically and rescinded or altered as necessary to protect the public health
or eliminate nuisance conditions.
   C.   Appeal From Suspension Of License: Any person whose license to operate
a manufactured home park or recreational camping area has been suspended, or
who has received notice from the city that the person's license is to be
suspended or revoked unless existing conditions or practices are corrected, may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the appeals board,
provided that if no petition for such hearing is filed within ten (10) days
following the date on which such license was suspended, such license shall be
deemed to have been revoked.
   D.   Appeals Board: The appeals board shall be the board of adjustment and
appeals established by title 10, chapter 7 of this code.
   E.   Hearing Provisions:
      1.   Request For Hearing: Any person affected by a notice of suspension
or emergency order which has been issued and served shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the appeals board upon filing with the city, written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement on the
grounds therefor. Said petition shall be filed within ten (10) days after the
notice was served.
      2.   Date Of Hearing: The hearing requested shall be held not more than
ten (10) days after the date on which the petition was filed. The chair of the
appeals board may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond
such ten (10) day period if, in the chair's judgment, a good and sufficient
reason exists for such postponement.
      3.   Notice Of Hearing: The city shall cause five (5) days' written
notice of the hearing to be given to the petitioner or petitioners by personal
service or by mailing to the petitioner's last known address.
      4.   Proceedings: At such hearing, the petitioner, or the petitioner's
agent or attorney, shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show cause
why the notice of suspension or emergency order issued by the city should be
modified or withdrawn. The city staff shall present a detailed, written
statement of their findings and decision to the appeals board at the time of
the hearing.
   F.   Decisions Of The Appeals Board: After such hearing, the appeals board
shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice of suspension or emergency order,
depending upon its findings as to whether the licensed establishment is being
operated in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. A copy of the
decisions of the appeals board shall be served by mail to the petitioner or
petitioners. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeals board may seek
relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws
of the state.
   G.   Record Of Proceedings: The proceedings of each hearing held before the
appeals board pursuant to petition, including the findings and the decision of
the city, shall be recorded and reduced to writing and entered as a public
record. Such record shall include a copy of every notice, order or writing
issued in connection with the matter.
   H.   Notices Not Appealed: Any notice served pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall automatically become final if written petition for a hearing
is not filed with the city within ten (10) days after notice is served. (Ord.
2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-10: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions hereof,
or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof, or who shall
make any false statement in any document required to be submitted under the
provisions hereof, shall, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the
provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code or by an administrative penalty pursuant to section
1-4-4 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Such persons may be enjoined from continuing such violations.
(Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-11: JURISDICTION OF LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT:
Any municipality which enacts or has enacted laws or ordinances relating to the
safety and protection of persons and property is empowered to enforce the laws
or ordinances within any manufactured home park or recreational camping area
located in the municipality, notwithstanding the fact that the park or area may
constitute private property. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-12: REGISTRATION:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the operator of the manufactured housing park
to keep a record of all homeowners and occupants located within the park. The
register shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of each unit occupant.
      2.   The name and address of the owner of each unit.
      3.   A list of all units being leased.
      4.   The make, model and year of each unit.
      5.   The date of arrival and departure of each unit.
      6.   The number and type of motor vehicles of residents in the park by
make, model and year.
   B.   The park operator shall keep the register available for inspection at
all times by authorized city, state and county officials, public health
officials and other public officers whose duty necessitates acquisition of the
information contained in the register. The register shall not be destroyed
until after a period of three (3) years following the date of departure of the
registrant from the park. In addition, the park operator shall, by December 31
of each year, provide the city with a complete list containing all of the above
information. On April 1, July 1, and October 1 of each year, the park operator
should provide the Moorhead fire department a list of all changes in the above
information from the last report.
   C.   The operator must comply with the rental registration requirements of
title 9, chapter 7 of this code. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
3-10-13: MANUFACTURED HOMES MANUFACTURED PRIOR TO JULY 1, 1972:
No manufactured home manufactured prior to July 1, 1972, may be moved into the
city unless the manufactured home is brought into compliance with the
applicable manufactured home building code standards applicable to newly
manufactured homes as promulgated by the United States department of housing
and urban development under the manufactured home construction and safety
standards act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et seq., and regulations issued pursuant to
that act, as amended. Any manufactured home built prior to July 1, 1972, and
situated within the city prior to the adoption of this section shall be
considered a nonconforming use and be subject to the provisions of title 10,
chapter 18 of this code relating to nonconforming buildings. Provided, however,
that if the manufactured home built prior to July 1, 1972, is brought into
compliance with standards applicable to newly manufactured homes as promulgated
by the United States department of housing and urban development under the
manufactured home construction and safety standards act of 1974, 42 USC 5401 et
seq., and regulations issued pursuant to that act, as amended, the manufactured
home shall not be considered a nonconforming use. The minimum floor
requirements of the manufactured home construction and safety standards act of
1974, if any, shall not apply in determining whether or not the manufactured
home is a nonconforming use. (Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 11
USE OF ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES AND SMOKING
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Prohibition
3-11-3: Restrictions
3-11-4: Other Applicable Laws
3-11-5: Violation And Penalties
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
will be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions will apply:
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. Electronic delivery
device includes any component part of such a product, whether or not marketed
or sold separately. Electronic delivery device does not include any product
that has been approved or certified by the United States food and drug
administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
USE: The inhaling or exhaling of vapor from any electronic delivery device. Use
also includes carrying an electronic delivery device that is turned on or
otherwise activated. (Ord. 2014-20, 9-8-2014)
3-11-2: PROHIBITION:
The use of any electronic delivery device is prohibited anywhere smoking is
prohibited by the Minnesota clean indoor air act, as may be amended from time
to time. (Ord. 2014-20, 9-8-2014)
3-11-3: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Smoking and use of an electronic delivery device is prohibited within
twenty feet (20') (6.10 m) of entrances, exits, operable windows, air intakes,
and ventilation systems of enclosed areas in which smoking is prohibited by the
Minnesota clean indoor air act. (Ord. 2016-05, 6-13-2016)
3-11-4: OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
This chapter is intended to complement the Minnesota clean indoor air act,
Minnesota statutes sections 144.411 to 144.417, as amended from time to time.
Nothing in this chapter authorizes smoking or the use of an electronic delivery
device in any location that is regulated by other applicable laws or
regulations. (Ord. 2014-20, 9-8-2014)
3-11-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Use Where Prohibited: It is a violation of this chapter for any person
to use an electronic delivery device in an area where prohibited by this
chapter, or to use an electronic delivery device in an area where prohibited by
a private policy established by the proprietor or other person in charge of the
area.
   B.   Proprietors: It is a violation of this chapter for the proprietor,
person, or entity that owns, leases, manages, operates, or otherwise controls
the use of an area in which the use of an electronic delivery device is
prohibited under this chapter to knowingly fail to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Penalties: A person who violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Each day of violation constitutes a separate
offense. (Ord. 2014-20, 9-8-2014)
TITLE 4
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2005-1, 2-22-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 7 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
POLICE DUTIES AT FIRES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Duties of Police
4-2-1: DUTIES OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police and all police officers shall, at all fires, preserve order
and cooperate and render all assistance possible to the Chief or acting Chief
of the Fire Department, and see that orders are promptly obeyed. (Ord. 176;
1967 Code §23.11)
CHAPTER 3
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-3-1: Custody
4-3-2: Sale of Property
4-3-3: Applicability of Chapter
4-3-1: CUSTODY:
All property which lawfully comes into the possession of the City in the course
of Municipal operations and is unclaimed by the lawful owner, shall be kept in
custody by the Police Department of the City.
4-3-2: SALE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Sale Authorized: Any property lawfully coming into the possession of
the City in the course of its Municipal operations remaining unclaimed by the
lawful owner more than sixty (60) days after such property came into the
possession of the City, may be sold at public auction.
   B.   Notice of Sale: Notice of a public auction to be held under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be made by publication of a notice at least
twice in the official City newspaper. Such notice shall set forth the date,
time and place of such sale, and shall generally describe the items to be sold.
   C.   Conduct of Sale: The public auction sale held under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be conducted by the Police Department. All sales shall be
for cash to the highest bidder. A record of each item sold and the price
received for such item shall be kept and maintained by the Police Department
for a period of two (2) years after each such sale.
   D.   Disposition of Proceeds: All monies received from a public auction sale
shall be delivered to the City Accountant for deposit in the general fund of
the City. Such monies shall be subject to the right of the former owner to
payment of the sale price from the general fund upon proper application and
satisfactory proof of ownership at any time within two (2) years of the date of
sale.
4-3-3: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall not apply to the sale of impounded motor vehicles or
abandoned motor vehicles which are being disposed of in accordance with the
terms and conditions of Minnesota Statutes chapter 168B, as such chapter may be
from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 705, 1-7-1980)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL OFFENSES AND PUBLIC CONDUCT
SECTION:
4-4-1: Disturbances
4-4-2: Noise Control Regulations
4-4-3: Noises (Rep. by Ord. 98-6, 6-15-1998)
4-4-4: Dense Smoke
4-4-5: Obstructing Public Officers
4-4-6: Offenses Relating To Property
4-4-7: Theft
4-4-8: Shoplifting
4-4-9: Offenses Against The Person
4-4-10: Offenses Relating To Minors
4-4-10-1: Curfew For Minors
4-4-10-2: Commercial Distribution Of Obscene Materials To Minors
4-4-10-3: Minors Selling Obscene Materials
4-4-11: Offenses Relating To Morals And Obscenities
4-4-12: Offenses Relating To Weapons
4-4-13: Gambling
4-4-14: Begging
4-4-15: Issuance Of Worthless Checks
4-4-16: Commercial And Junk Vehicles And Materials (Rep. by Ord. 2004-27, 10-
18-2004)
4-4-17: Picketing Restrictions
4-4-18: Registration In Public Schools
4-4-19: Social Host Liability
4-4-20: Offenses Relating To Permanent And Temporary Flood Control Measures
4-4-21: Offenses Relating To Drug Paraphernalia (Rep. by Ord. 2024-02, 2-26-
2024)
4-4-22: Disruptive Intoxication
4-4-23: Catalytic Converters
4-4-1: DISTURBANCES:
   A.   General: No person shall make, aid, countenance or assist in making any
improper noises or disturbances, or to commit any act which would disturb the
peace and quiet of the community, constitute a nuisance or offend community
sensibilities to the degree that a breach of the peace results. (Ord. 188; amd.
1967 Code §62.01)
   B.   Intoxicated Persons; Disorderly Conduct: Whoever does any of the
following in a public or private place, knowing or having reasonable grounds to
know that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger or disturb others or provoke
an assault or breach of the peace, is guilty of disorderly conduct which is a
misdemeanor:
      1.   Engages in brawling or fighting; or
      2.   Loiter, loaf or misbehave or be guilty of any boisterous or
disorderly conduct in or near any public buildings, institutions of learning,
or any lawful public assembly of persons or in any way or manner disturb the
study or work of persons therein or disturb an assembly or meeting not unlawful
in its character; or
      3.   Engages in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in a boisterous
and noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others 1 . (1987 Code)
   C.   Riots: No person shall make or assist in any riot or disturbance, or
engage in any disorderly, indecent, immoral or insulting conduct, language or
behavior, or be in a state of intoxication on the streets or elsewhere in the
city; and no persons shall collect in bodies or crowds in the city for unlawful
purposes, to the annoyance of the citizens or travelers. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967
Code §62.06)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA §609.72.
4-4-2: NOISE CONTROL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful To Make Loud Or Unnecessary Noises: It shall be unlawful for
any person to make, or cause to be made any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
which either annoys, disturbs, or affects the comfort, repose, health, or peace
of others.
   B.   Unlawful Acts: The following acts set forth in the following
subsections are declared to be loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in
violation of this section, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive:
      1.   Horns; Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle, except as a danger
warning.
      2.   Radios, Tape And Disc Players, Etc.: The using, operating, or
permitting to be played any radio receiving set, tape or disc player, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner, considering the time and place and the
purpose for which the sound is produced, as to disturb the peace, quiet or
repose of a person or persons of ordinary sensibilities.
         a.   The play, use, or operation of any radio, tape or disc player,
musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance
of fifty feet (50') from such machine or device shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section.
         b.   When sound violating this section is produced or reproduced by a
machine or device that is located in or on a vehicle, the vehicle's owner is
guilty of the violation, provided, however, that if the vehicle's owner is not
present at the time of the violation, the person in charge or control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation.
         c.   Persons or entities may apply for a sound amplification permit
from the city for events or activities which may otherwise violate the terms of
this section. The guidelines for the issuance of permits are set by a
resolution adopted by the city council.
         d.   This section shall not apply to sound produced by the following:
            (1)   Amplifying equipment used in connection with activities which
are authorized, sponsored or permitted by the city, as long as the activity is
conducted pursuant to the conditions of the license, permit or contract
authorizing such activity.
            (2)   Church bells, chimes or carillons.
            (3)   School bells.
            (4)   Antitheft devices.
            (5)   Machines or devices for the production of sound on or in
authorized emergency vehicles.
            (6)   Sound amplifying equipment used to announce sporting events
at athletic facilities owned by the city, the Moorhead public school district,
Moorhead State University, Concordia College, or any parochial schools in the
city.
         e.   With the exception of the machines or devices listed in
subsection B2d of this section, this section shall apply to all radios, tape
and disc players, musical instruments, phonographs, and machines and devices
for the production or reproduction of sound, whether on public or private
property.
      3.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers For Advertising: The using, operating,
or permitting to be played any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building or structure in any residentially zoned district or in any
district between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M.
      4.   Yelling, Shouting, Etc.: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel, motel, or other
place of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
      5.   Animals; Birds 1 : The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
      6.   Whistles Or Sirens: The blowing of a locomotive whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler or any siren whatsoever except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger, or by public emergency vehicles.
      7.   Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      8.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise which shall disturb the
comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity.
      9.   Sound Trucks: The use of sound trucks or any other vehicle equipped
with sound amplifying devices for any purposes except as permitted by
subsection B3 of this Section or pursuant to a permit issued pursuant to
subsection B2c of this Section.
      10.   Schools, Courts, Churches, And Hospitals: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street or private property adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church, court, or hospital while the same are in use
which unreasonably interferes with the use thereof, provided conspicuous signs
are displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
court street.
      11.   Hawkers; Peddlers: The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers,
and vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
      12.   Blowers: The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of aerating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan
is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden such noise.
      13.   Noisy Parties And Gatherings:
         a.   Prohibition: No person shall, between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. congregate at, or participate in any
party or gathering of two (2) or more people from which noise emanates of a
sufficient volume so as to disturb the peace, quiet, or repose of another
person. No person shall knowingly remain at such a noisy party or gathering.
         b.   Evidence: Noise of such volume as to be clearly audible at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from the structure or building in which the party
or gathering is occurring, or in the case of apartment buildings, in the
adjacent hallway or apartment, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this Section.
         c.   Duty To Disperse: When a police officer determines that a party
or gathering is in violation of this Section, the officer may order all persons
present at the premises where the violation is occurring, other than the owner
or tenants of the premises, to disperse immediately. No person shall knowingly
remain at such a party or gathering.
         d.   Cooperation Of Owner Or Tenant: Every owner of such premises, or
tenant in charge of such premises, who has knowledge of the disturbance shall
cooperate with such police officer or officers and shall make reasonable
efforts to stop the disturbance and disperse the gathering.
         e.   Exceptions: The following are exempt from violation of this
Section:
            (1)   Activities which are duly authorized, sponsored or licensed
by the City, so long as the activity is conducted pursuant to the conditions of
the license, permit or contract authorizing such activity.
            (2)   Church bells, chimes or carillons.
            (3)   Persons who have gone to a party for the sole purpose of
abating the violation.
            (4)   Sporting events held at athletic facilities owned by the
City, the Moorhead Public School District, Moorhead State University, Concordia
College, or any parochial schools in the City.
         f.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Violation By Owner Or Tenant Of This
Section:
            (1)   As to tenants, and owner if owner resides on the premises, if
twice or more on the same day, or if on successive days, the Moorhead Police
Department is called upon to enforce the terms of this Section either by
citizen complaint or by personal investigation of a peace officer.
            (2)   As to the owner, if the owner does not reside at the
premises, if after owner receives written notice of three (3) violations of
this Section by his tenants at any premises owned by owner in the City within a
six (6) month period, and after receipt of such written notice, the Moorhead
Police Department is called upon to enforce this Section either by citizen
complaint or by personal investigation of a peace officer.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this Section shall be,
upon conviction, penalized in accordance with the provisions of Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 98-6, 6-15-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 3-7-9C of this code.
4-4-3: NOISES:
(Rep. by Ord. 98-6, 6-15-1998)
4-4-4: DENSE SMOKE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The emission of dense smoke containing soot, ashes,
cinders, dust or other solid substances or pungent, obnoxious or disagreeable
odors in a sufficient quantity to permit the deposit of soot or other
substances or which is dense enough to form a cloud which cannot be seen
through clearly, from any smokestack, chimney or discharge pipe from any
burning device, is a public nuisance.
   B.   Persons Responsible: No person owning, operating, or in charge or
control of any furnace, locomotive, stationary engine or other burning device,
shall cause or permit the emission of smoke as described in this Section from
the smokestack, chimney or discharge pipes of any such furnace, locomotive,
stationary engine or other burning device.
   C.   Enforcement: The Council may, by motion, delegate to any regular
officer or employee of the City the duty of enforcing this Section, and shall
provide such instrument, books, papers, equipment and service as shall be
necessary to enable such person to properly perform his duties and enforce this
Section, including seeking a court order directing the persons responsible
under subsection B of this Section to immediately cease and desist the declared
nuisance. (Ord. 256; amd. 1967 Code §62.21)
4-4-5: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC OFFICERS:
No persons shall wilfully delay or obstruct public officers in the discharge of
their duties. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.03)
4-4-6: OFFENSES RELATING TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Acts Constituting Trespass: Whoever does any of the following commits
trespass:
      1.   Goes upon the grass or turf of any land abutting on a public street
where the same is used for lawn or park purposes without permission of the
owner or person in charge thereof; or (Ord. 332; amd. 1967 Code §62.22)
      2.   Smokes in a building, area, or common carrier in which "no smoking"
notices have been prominently posted, or when requested not to by the operator
of the common carrier, or owner of the premises or an employee on the premises;
or
      3.   Permits domestic animals or fowls owned or kept by such person to go
upon the lands of another within the City; or
      4.   Trespasses upon the premises of another and, without claim of right,
refuses to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor thereof; or
      5.   Occupies or enters the dwelling of another, without claim of right
or consent of the owner or the consent of one who has the right to give
consent, except in an emergency situation; or
      6.   Refuses the request of the operator of a public conveyance to either
pay the required fare or leave the conveyance; or
      7.   Takes any animal on a public conveyance without the consent of the
operator, except seeing eye dogs or dogs aiding the deaf; or
      8.   Without the permission of the owner, tampers with or gets into or
upon a motor vehicle or rides in or upon such motor vehicle knowing it was
taken and is being driven by another without the permission of the owner. (1987
Code)
      9.   Goes into a public or private cemetery after the hour of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. without the express permission of the owner or person in charge
thereof. (Ord. 88-20, 1-23-1989)
   B.   Deface Public Property: No person shall injure or deface any of the
property, buildings, apparatus or utensils in any public building, any private
building housing public offices or public property, schoolhouse, college or
other charitable institution, or any property of the City. (Ord. 34; amd. 1967
Code §62.17)
   C.   Criminal Damage To Property: Whoever intentionally causes damage to
physical property of another without the latter's consent, which reduces the
value of the property by not more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), may,
upon conviction, be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 472, 9-20-1971)
   D.   Throwing Stones: No person shall throw or cast, or encourage, aid or
assist others in throwing or casting any stone or other missiles or projectiles
into, upon or against any buildings, erection or other public or private
property, or at any person in any street, alley or in any enclosed or
unenclosed place, or at any vehicle. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.08)
   E.   Trespass Over Property To Which Public Has Some Implicit Right Of
Access:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection E is to allow an owner of
real property to which the public has some implicit right of access to exclude
a person from that property if the person has committed a crime on the property
or has violated the properly posted or otherwise provided rules of conduct for
the property.
      2.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words
and terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
       COVERED PREMISES: Any improved real property, or portion thereof, within
the City of Moorhead, to which the public has an implicit right of access,
including, but not limited to, places of worship, shopping malls, retail sales
facilities, hotels, motels, nursing homes, restaurants, multiple dwellings,
hospitals, medical and dental offices, clubs, lodges, office buildings, banks
and financial institutions, transit stations, athletic and recreational
facilities, personal service establishments, theaters, and daycare facilities.
      PRIVATE AREAS: Areas within the covered premises not normally accessible
to members of the public without explicit permission of the person in direct
control of the area, including, but not limited to, individual apartment units,
employee rest areas and facilities, banquet halls, meeting rooms, and private
offices.
      PRIVATE COMMON AREAS: Other common areas within the covered premises
normally within the exclusive control of a tenant but subject to reasonable
regulation by the property manager, including, but not limited to, sales
floors, store restroom facilities accessible to customers or clients, checkout
lanes, and customer service areas.
      PROPERTY MANAGER: Any owner of a covered premises, or the agent of the
owner or any tenant who is authorized by the owner to exercise control over the
covered premises, including its public common areas.
      PUBLIC COMMON AREAS: All areas of the covered premises, other than
private common areas, maintained for the common use of its tenants or of the
general public incidental to normal and legitimate activities upon the covered
premises, including, but not limited to: the curtilage; parking lots and ramps;
private roadways, sidewalks, and walkways; recreational facilities; reception
areas; rotundas; waiting areas; hallways; restroom facilities; elevators;
escalators; and staircases.
      TENANT: Any authorized occupant of a covered premises, or the agent
thereof, but excluding an occupant of a domestic use, such as a renter or
lessee of a dwelling or apartment, resident in a nursing home, or a hotel or
motel guest.
      TRESPASS NOTICE: A written notice that contains minimally the following
information:
         a.   All of the information contained in subsection E5 and E6 of this
Section.
         b.   The name, date of birth, and address of the person to whom the
notice is issued and the name of the person's custodial parent or guardian if
the person is a juvenile.
         c.   A description of the specific conduct that forms the basis for
the issuance of the notice.
         d.   A description of the specific covered premises or portion thereof
to which the notice applies.
         e.   The period during which the notice is in effect, including the
date of its expiration.
         f.   The name, title, address, and telephone number of a person with
authority to modify, amend, or rescind the notice.
         g.   The method by which the notice was served upon the person to whom
it was issued.
      3.   Issuance Of Trespass Notice: A property manager or tenant may issue
a trespass notice to a person only if there is probable cause to believe the
person has, no more than thirty (30) days before the issuance of that notice:
         a.   Committed an act prohibited by State statute or City ordinance
while on the covered premises; or
         b.   Violated any rule of conduct for the covered premises that has
been conspicuously posted at all public entrances to the covered premises or
that the property manager or tenant has provided to the person in writing.
      4.   Coverage Of Trespass Notice:
         a.   If issued by a property manager, a trespass notice is effective
only as to those public common areas and private areas within the property
manager's exclusive control, except that a trespass notice may also cover
private common areas and other private areas provided the tenant or tenants in
control of such areas have agreed in writing to be precluded from inviting onto
the premises any person to whom a trespass notice has been issued under this
subsection E. Such a trespass notice must state that the tenant or tenants of
the covered premises are precluded from inviting onto the covered premises any
person to whom a trespass notice has been issued under this subsection E.
         b.   If issued by a tenant, the trespass notice is effective only as
to those private common areas and private areas over which the tenant has
control.
         c.   A notice broader in coverage than authorized by this Section
shall not be invalid, but shall be valid to the extent authorized by this
subsection E.
      5.   Prohibited Conduct:
         a.   No person shall trespass in or upon any covered premises of
another and, without claim of right, refuse to depart therefrom on demand of
the property manager, or a tenant authorized to exercise control over the
covered premises or portion involved.
         b.   No person served with a trespass notice in conformity with this
subsection E shall enter in or upon the premises described therein during its
effective period without the written permission of the notice issuer, agent, or
assign.
         c.   No person shall enter any public facility, utility, or grounds
thereto, or any covered premises or portion thereof in violation of
conspicuously posted signs prohibiting or restricting access thereto,
including, but not limited to, the following: "No Trespassing", "Authorized
Personnel Only", "Private", "Employees Only", "Emergency Exit Only".
      6.   Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subsection E is guilty of an infraction.
      7.   Additional Provisions:
         a.   No trespass notice shall be effective for more than one year.
         b.   All trespass notices issued pursuant to this subsection E must be
properly served upon the person named therein as follows:
            (1)   Personal service documented by either a receipt signed by the
person to whom it was issued or an affidavit of the issuer; or
            (2)   If the person is arrested or detained by a police officer,
the officer may personally serve the notice on behalf of the property manager
or tenant and document service in the officer's official police report
detailing the incident.
      8.   Severability: If any subsection or portion of this subsection E is
deemed invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of other
subsections or portions of this Section. (Ord. 98-3, 3-16-1998)
4-4-7: THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: In this Section, the following words shall mean:
       ARTICLE: Any object, material, device or substance, including any
writing, record, recording, drawing, sample specimen, prototype, model,
photograph, microorganism, blueprint or map, or any copy of any of the
foregoing.
      COPY: Any facsimile, replica, photograph or other reproduction of an
article, and any note, drawing or sketch made of or from an article while in
the presence of such article.
      MOVABLE PROPERTY: Property whose physical location can be changed,
including without limitation things growing on, affixed to or found in land.
      PROPERTY: All forms of tangible property, whether real or personal,
without limitation including documents of value, electricity, gas, water,
corpses, domestic animals, dogs, pets, fowl and heat supplied by pipe or
conduit by municipalities or public utility companies and articles, as defined
herein, representing trade secrets, which articles shall be deemed to include
any trade secret or property represented by such article.
      PROPERTY OF ANOTHER: Includes property in which the actor is co-owner or
has a lien, pledge, bailment or lease or other subordinate interest, and
property of a partnership of which the actor is a member. It does not include
property in which the actor asserts in good faith a claim as a collection fee
or commission out of property or funds recovered, or by virtue of a lien, set-
off or counterclaim.
      REPRESENTING: Describing, depicting, containing, constituting, reflecting
or recording.
      TRADE SECRET: The whole or any portion of any formula, pattern, device or
compilation of any scientific or technical information which is secret, is of
value and has not been published or otherwise become a matter of general public
knowledge; and an article representing a trade secret shall be presumed to be
secret and not to have been publish ed or otherwise become a matter of general
public knowledge when the owner marks it as a trade secret and takes measures
to preserve its secrecy and to pre vent it from becoming available to persons
other than those selected by the owner to have controlled access thereto for
purposes of the owner's business.
      VALUE: The market value at the time of the theft, or if the market value
cannot be ascertained, the cost of replacement of the property within a
reasonable time after the theft, or in the case of a theft or the making of a
copy of an article representing a trade secret, where the market value or
replacement cost cannot be ascertained, any reasonable value representing the
damage to the owner which has been suffered by reason of losing an advantage
over those who do not know of or use the trade secret. For a theft committed
within the meaning of subsection B5a and b hereof, if the property has been
restored to the owner, "value" means the value of the use of the property or
the damage which it sustained, whichever is greater, while the owner was
deprived of its possession, but not exceeding the value otherwise provided
herein.
   B.   Acts Constituting Theft: Any person who commits any of the following
commits theft and may be sentenced as provided in subsection C hereof:
      1.   Intentionally and without claim or right takes, uses, transfers,
conceals or retains possession of movable property of another without consent
and with intent to deprive the owner permanently of possession of the property;
      2.   Having a legal interest in movable property, intentionally and
without con sent, takes such property out of the possession of a pledgee or
other person having a superior right of possession, with intent thereby to
deprive the pledgee or other person permanently of the possession of the
property;
      3.   Intentionally removing the price tag from an item of lesser value
and placing the price tag upon an item of greater value;
      4.   By swindling, whether by artifice, trick, device or any other means,
obtains property from another person;
      5.   Intentionally commits any of the acts listed in this subsection but
with in tent to exercise temporary control only and:
         a.   The control exercised manifests an indifference to the rights of
the owners or the restoration of the property to them; or
         b.   The person pledges or otherwise attempts to subject the property
to an adverse claim; or
         c.   The person intends to restore the property only on condition that
the owner pay a reward or buy back or make other compensation;
      6.   Finds lost property and, knowing or having reasonable means of
ascertaining the true owner, appropriates it to the person's own use or to that
of another not entitled thereto without first having made reasonable effort to
find the owners and offer and surrender the property to them;
      7.   Intentionally obtains property or services, offered upon the deposit
of a sum of money or tokens in a coin or token operated machine or other
receptacle, without making the required deposit or otherwise obtaining the
consent of the owner;
      8.   Intentionally and without claim of right converts any article
representing a trade secret, knowing it to be such, to the person's own use or
that of another person or makes a copy of an article representing a trade
secret, knowing it to be such, and intentionally and without claim of right
converts the same to the person's own use or that of another person. It shall
be a complete defense to any prosecution under this clause for the defendants
to show that information comprising the trade secret was rightfully known or
available to them from a source other than the owner of the trade secret. (Ord.
444, 2-2-70)
   C.   Penalty: Whoever does any of the acts stated in subsection B hereof,
shall, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 486, 3-6-72)
4-4-8: SHOPLIFTING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, the terms defined in
this Section have the meanings ascribed to them herein:
       MERCHANT: Any persons who own or have in their possession or subject to
their control personal property with authority to sell the same in the regular
course of business at retail or wholesale.
      PERSON: Includes an individual, a partnership, corporation or
association.
   B.   Acts Prohibited: Any merchants or merchants' employees who have
reasonable cause for believing that any persons have taken, or are in the act
of taking, any article of value without paying therefor, from the possession of
the merchants in their place of business or from any vehicle or premises under
their control, with the wrongful intent to deprive the merchants of their
property or the use and benefit thereof or to appropriate the same to the use
of the takers or any other persons, may detain such persons for the sole
purpose of delivering them to a peace officer without unnecessary delay and
then and there making a charge against such persons to the peace officer. The
persons detained shall promptly be informed of the purpose of the detention and
shall not be subjected to unnecessary or unreasonable force, nor to
interrogation against their will.
   C.   Arrest of Suspected Violator: Upon a charge being made, any peace
officers may, without a warrant, arrest any person whom they have reasonable
cause for believing has committed or attempted to commit the offense described
in subsection B hereof.
   D.   False Arrest: No merchant, merchant's employee or peace officer shall
be criminally or civilly liable for false arrest or false imprisonment or
wrongful detention under subsection B if that merchant's, merchant's employees,
or peace officer's action was based upon reasonable cause. (Ord. 444, 2-2-70)
4-4-9: OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON:
   A.   Illegal Assaults: Whoever does any of the following commits an assault
and may be sentenced, upon conviction, in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-4-2 of this Code:
      1.   Does an act with intent to cause fear in another of immediate bodily
harm or death; or
      2.   Intentionally inflicts or attempts to inflict bodily harm upon
another. (Ord. 475, 9-20-71)
   B.   Lying in Wait: No person shall lurk, lie in wait or conceal themselves
in any house or other building or in any yard, motor vehicle, or other place
with intent to do mischief, or pilfer or commit any crime or misdemeanor or to
harass, annoy, frighten, or offend another person. (Ord. 188; 1967 Code §
62.07)
4-4-10: OFFENSES RELATING TO MINORS:
4-4-10-1: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
   A.   Definitions: In this Section:
      CURFEW HOURS: Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
every day of the week.
      EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or
         2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
      MINOR: Any person under sixteen (16) years of age.
      OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT: A person who is:
         1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step- parent of another
person; or
         2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: 1. To linger or stay; or
         2.   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew hours.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control, allow the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the City during
curfew hours. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent or
guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew. That the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
         f.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
         g.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the City, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         h.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         i.   Married or had been married.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B that the owner,
operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this Section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this Section unless the officer has probable cause to believe that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C is present.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted.
      2.   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed seven hundred
dollars ($700.00) and/or ninety (90) days imprisonment.
   F.   Severability: If any provision of this section is, for any reason, held
to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this section. It is intended that the curfew ordinance be held
inapplicable in such cases, if any, where its application would be
unconstitutional. (Ord. 94-9, 7-5-1994)
4-4-10-2: COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE MATERIALS TO MINORS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to regulate the direct
commercial distribution of certain explicit sexual materials to young persons
in order to aid parents in supervising and controlling the access of children
to such material. The council finds that whatever social value such material
may have for young persons can adequately be served by its availability to
young persons through their parents. It is also the purpose of this section to
prohibit open public display of certain explicit sexual materials, in order to
protect persons from potential offense through involuntary exposure to such
materials.
   B.   Offenses Defined: Any person may, upon conviction, be penalized in
accordance to the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code if they knowingly:
      1.   Disseminate explicit sexual material, as hereinafter defined, to
young persons; or
      2.   Display "explicit sexual material" for sale in an area to which
young persons have access, unless such material has artistic, literary,
historical, scientific, medical, educational or other similar social value for
adults; or
      3.   Place explicit sexual material upon public display, or if they
knowingly fail to take prompt action to remove such a display from property in
their possession after learning of its existence.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:
      DISPLAY FOR SALE: In an area to which young persons have access, means
display of material for sale so that young persons may see portions of the
material constituting explicit sexual pictorial material.
      DISSEMINATE: To sell, lease or exhibit commercially and, in the case of
an exhibition, to sell an admission ticket or pass or to admit persons who have
bought such a ticket or pass to the premises whereon an exhibition is
presented.
      EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL: Any pictorial or three- dimensional material
depicting human sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy (i.e., bestiality or
oral or anal intercourse), direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals,
flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship, or emphasizing
the depiction of adult human genitals, buttocks or female breasts; provided,
however, that works of art or of anthropological significance, or materials
presented in a program of education in a church, school or college, shall not
be deemed to be within the foregoing definitions.
      KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know or a belief or
ground for belief, which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both of the
following: 1) the character and contents of any material described herein which
is reasonably susceptible of examination, and 2) the age of the person;
provided, however, that an honest mistake shall constitute an excuse from
liability hereunder if a reasonable bona fide attempt is made to ascertain the
true age of the person.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY: Material is placed upon "public display" if it is placed
on or in a billboard, viewing screen, theater marquee, newsstand, display rack,
window, showcase, display case or similar place so that matter bringing it
within the definition of "explicit sexual material" is easily visible from a
public thoroughfare or from the property of others.
      YOUNG PERSON: Any person less than eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to a prosecution under
this section for the defendants to show:
      1.   That the dissemination was made with the consent of a parent or
guardian of the recipient, that the defendants were misled as to the existence
of parental consent by a misrepresentation made by persons holding themselves
out as parents or guardians of the recipient, or that the dissemination was
made to the recipients by their teacher, or clergyman in the discharge of
official responsibilities;
      2.   That the recipient was married.
   E.   Exemption: The prohibition of this section shall not apply to
broadcasts or telecasts through facilities licensed under the federal
communications act, 47 USC section 201 et seq., or the Moorhead Public Library.
   F.   Penalties: Any persons violating the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 600, 4-4-1977)
4-4-10-3: MINORS SELLING OBSCENE MATERIALS:
No persons shall hire, use or employ any minors to sell or give away or in any
manner distribute or to permit any minors in their custody or control to sell,
give away or in any manner distribute any of the articles enumerated in
subsection 4-4-11D of this chapter. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.24; Ord. 600,
4-4-1977)
4-4-11: OFFENSES RELATING TO MORALS AND OBSCENITIES:
   A.   Houses Of Ill Fame:
      1.   Keeping: No person or persons shall keep, within the limits of the
city or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the outer boundaries thereof, a
disorderly house or ill governed house, room or place, or a house of ill fame,
assignation or prostitution, or a room or place for a person or persons to
visit for unlawful sexual intercourse or any other lewd, obscene or indecent
purpose, or any disorderly house or place by which the peace, comfort or
decency of the immediate neighborhood is disturbed. No person shall procure or
suffer to come together at such house, room or place, any person or persons for
the purpose herein described, nor commit or suffer to be committed in such
house, room or place any immoral, lewd or immodest or other improper conduct or
behavior, or any tippling, reveling, rioting or disturbance.
      2.   Visiting: No person shall, within the limits of the city or within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of the outer boundaries thereof, visit, resort to
or frequent or be found in a disorderly house, room or place or house of ill
fame, or place visited or resorted to for the purpose of prostitution,
assignation, fornication or any immoral, lewd, immodest or other improper
conduct or behavior; nor shall any person commit therein any of the acts or
things prohibited by this section.
      3.   Leasing: No person shall let or hire, or lease or demise, any room,
house or building or premises within the limits of the city or within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the outer boundaries thereof, to any person of ill
fame or ill name, or who are known by common reputation to be common
prostitutes, or keepers or proprietors of houses of ill fame, or places
resorted to for the purpose of prostitution, assignation, fornication or
immoral, lewd, lascivious or other immoral or immodest conduct or behavior; and
no person being the owner or having control of any house, building or premises
within the limits of the city or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
outer boundaries thereof, shall permit, allow or suffer any person or persons
as hereinbefore described to occupy or remain in occupancy of said room, house,
building or premises.
      4.   Enticing: No male or female shall walk upon the streets for the
purpose of enticing any person to any house, room or place for the purpose of
prostitution or for the purpose of practicing fornication, nor shall any male
or female entice any person to any house or room or place, or attempt to entice
any person or persons to any house or room, for the purpose of prostitution or
to practice fornication. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.09)
   B.   Indecent Exposure: No persons shall appear in public view in a state of
nudity or in an indecent or lewd dress, nor shall any person make any indecent
exposure of their person or be guilty of any indecent or obscene or lewd act or
behavior. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.11)
   C.   Obscene And Immoral Material: No person shall sell, lend, give away,
show, advertise or otherwise offer for loan, gift, sale or distribution any
obscene or indecent book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story paper, writing,
picture, drawing, photograph or any article or instrument of indecent or
immoral character; or to design, copy, draw, photograph, print, utter, publish
or otherwise prepare such a book, picture, drawing, paper or other article or
to write or print, or cause to be written or printed, a circular, advertisement
or notice of any kind, or give oral information stating when, where or of whom
or by what means such an indecent or obscene article or thing can be purchased
or obtained. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.12)
   D.   Prejudicial Literature: No person shall print, publish or distribute by
any means or manner, any handbill, booklet, sticker or literature or paper
which tends to expose any individual or any racial or religious group to
hatred, contempt, ridicule or obloquy. (Ord. 160; amd. 1967 Code §62.19)
   E.   Urinating In Public: It shall be unlawful to urinate or defecate on any
public street, or upon any public sidewalk or in any other public place; in or
on any vehicle in public or in any store, assembly hall, corridor, entryway or
other place open to and used by the public, except in a restroom and then only
in a toilet or urinal or other fixture normally used for that purpose. (Ord.
843, 11-17-1986)
4-4-12: OFFENSES RELATING TO WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Weapons: No person, except as authorized by law, shall carry
concealed about their persons firearms of any description, or any sharp or
dangerous weapon such as is usually employed in attack or defense of the
person.
   B.   Prohibited Weapons, Fireworks And Devices:
      1.   Prohibition: The following acts are hereby prohibited except as may
be otherwise stated:
         a.   No person shall fire or discharge any firearm within the city
limits except under circumstances of defense of oneself or another, and where
such force is justified under Minnesota statutes section 609.06 and 609.065. No
person shall transport a firearm within the city unless the same shall be
unloaded and secured in a locked trunk of a vehicle or in a gun case expressly
made to contain the firearm, and the case fully encloses the firearm by being
zipped, snapped, buckled, tied or otherwise fastened and without any portion of
the firearm exposed. This section shall not apply to acts of possession allowed
by a valid permit to carry issued pursuant to Minnesota statutes section
624.714.
         b.   No person shall fire, set off or discharge any firecracker,
fireworks or other explosive, incendiary or pyrotechnic device within the city
limits; except that the council may by permit allow the display of fireworks at
such time and such place as the council shall direct.
         c.   No person shall discharge, set off, or fire any spring gun, air
gun, or BB gun within the city limits except at such places as the council may
direct.
         d.   No person shall carry on their person in a public place as
defined in Minnesota statutes section 624.7181, subsection 1, paragraph c, as
amended from time to time, a facsimile firearm within the city. "Facsimile
firearm" means any object not actually a firearm which is a replica of an
actual firearm, which substantially duplicates an actual firearm, or which
could reasonably be perceived to be an actual firearm. This section shall not
restrict the use of a facsimile firearm for self-defense of a person's
residence or place of business.
         e.   No person shall use or shoot any bow and arrow, crossbow,
slingshot or any other device designated to throw or hurl any missile within
the city limits except at such places as the council shall direct.
Transportation of any archery bow must meet the criteria set forth in Minnesota
statutes section 97B.051.
         f.   No persons shall have on their person in a public place, sell or
offer to sell, trade or offer for trade any spring blade knife, switchblade
knife, nunchakus, throwing star or other weapon of any type or size capable of
causing injury to another unless specifically excepted elsewhere in this
section.
         g.   No persons shall carry on or about their person or in the
passenger compartment of any motor vehicle any of the weapons described in
subsection B1f of this section, unless the same is in an opaque container which
encloses the weapon by being zipped, snapped, buckled, tied or otherwise
fastened and without any portion of the weapon exposed.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   The above restrictions do not apply to peace officers or members
of the armed forces of the United States while on duty within the city. The
council shall enact such regulations concerning the carrying and use of
firearms by the members of the Moorhead police department as the council deems
necessary and proper.
         b.   The above restrictions for items in subsections B1d and B1f of
this section do not apply in places at which an event or activity is conducted
involving the exhibition, display, or carrying of a weapon, done in a manner
not intended or calculated to result in or lead to the unlawful use of the
weapon, including, but not limited to, educational or training programs,
weapons or collectors shows or exhibitions, or religious, artistic,
educational, or cultural events.
         c.   The above restrictions will not apply in parades or other public
events when the use or display of weapons is authorized by the city for the
event.
         d.   The above restrictions do not apply as provided in section
4-7-2, "Designated Areas", of this title, a person lawfully hunting on city
designated hunting lands whether public or private, with an appropriate state
hunting license during a state recognized season so long as all state and local
regulations are being followed. Designated lands exclude hunting from a public
roadway or right of way.
      3.   Seizure Of Weapons And Devices: Any of the weapons and devices
described in subsection B1 of this section wherever and whenever they shall be
found within the city limits in violation of this subsection may be seized and
impounded. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-8-2014)
4-4-13: GAMBLING:
   A.   General Prohibition: No persons shall place, keep or knowingly suffer
to be kept in any house, building, yard or garden owned by them, used or
occupied, any table or other apparatus for playing cards, dice or other
gambling implements, to which any person shall resort for the purpose of gaming
or playing for money or other valuable things; or suffer any person or persons
to play for money or other valuable things at cards, dice or any unlawful game
in any house, building, yard or garden so owned or occupied by such person, or
suffer any person to resort thereto for the purpose of gaming unless otherwise
authorized under section
2-2B-2 of this code or by state law. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.14)
   B.   Playing Games For Money: No person shall play at cards, dice,
billiards, ninepins, pool, slot machines or any unlawful games, as defined by
the state laws, for money or other valuable things on any bet or wager unless
otherwise authorized by section
2-2B-2 of this code or by state law. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.15)
4-4-14: BEGGING:
No persons shall place themselves upon any sidewalk or public street for the
purpose of begging or receiving alms, or go about the city from place to place
begging alms. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code §62.16)
4-4-15: ISSUANCE OF WORTHLESS CHECKS:
   A.   Definition:
    CREDIT: An arrangement or understanding with the drawee for the payment of
the check or other order for the payment of money to which this section
applies.
   B.   Prohibited Act, Penalty: Any persons who issue any check or other order
for the payment of money which, at the time of issuance, the persons intend
shall not be paid, may be, upon conviction, penalized in accordance with the
provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code.
   C.   Evidence: Any of the following is evidence sufficient to sustain a
finding that the persons at the time they issued the check or other order for
the payment of money, intended it should not be paid:
      1.   Proof that, at the time of issuance, they did not have an account
with the drawee; or
      2.   Proof that, at the time of issuance, they did not have sufficient
funds or credit with the drawee and that they failed within five (5) days after
receiving notice of nonpayment or dishonor to pay the check or other order; or
      3.   Proof that, when presentment was made within a reasonable time, the
issuer did not have sufficient funds or credit with the drawee and that they
failed within five (5) days after receiving notice of nonpayment or dishonor to
pay the check or other order.
   D.   Proof Of Protest: If the check or other order for the payment of money
has been protested, the notice of protest thereof is admissible as proof of
presentation, nonpayment and protest, and is evidence sufficient to sustain a
finding that there was a lack of funds or credit with the drawee.
   E.   Exemption: This section does not apply to a postdated check or to a
check given for a past consideration, except a payroll check. (Ord. 474, 9-20-
1971)
4-4-16: COMMERCIAL AND JUNK VEHICLES AND MATERIALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
4-4-17: PICKETING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Declaration: It is unlawful for any person in any area zoned
residential in the city to engage in picketing before or about the residence or
dwelling of any individual.
   B.   Unlawful Picketing: No person in any area zoned residential in the city
shall engage in picketing by surrounding a residence or dwelling, obstructing
sidewalks or driveways adjacent to or used by a residence or dwelling,
encroaching upon the land or property of a residence or dwelling or
congregating before or about the residence or dwelling of any individual.
   C.   General Residential Picketing: Notwithstanding picketing being
restricted from being engaged in or about the residence or dwelling of any
individual under subsections A and B of this section, general picketing in an
area zoned residential which is not focused on the residence or dwelling of any
individual shall be permissible under this section including, by way of example
but not limitation, picketers being allowed to enter residential neighborhoods,
either alone or marching in groups, to go door to door to proselytize their
views or to distribute literature and to contact residents through the mail or
by telephone so long as such activities fall short of harassment and are
otherwise in compliance with law.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be,
upon conviction, penalized in accordance with provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 89-13, 8-21-1989)
4-4-18: REGISTRATION IN PUBLIC SCHOOLS:
During such time as regularly scheduled classes are in session, no person shall
enter or remain in any public elementary or secondary school building within
the city without first registering in the main office of said school; provided,
however, this section shall not apply to members of the school board of
Moorhead school district, faculty and employees of the Moorhead school district
and students enrolled in that school.
Reasonable notification of the requirements of this section shall be
conspicuously posted at the entrance to every public elementary and secondary
school within the city, and no complaint for a violation of this section shall
issue unless such notice is given. (Ord. 93-4, 6-7-1993)
4-4-19: SOCIAL HOST LIABILITY:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms have the
following meanings:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-
half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage
purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
   EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST: To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      1.   As natural, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
      2.   As a legal guardian; or
      3.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
   RESIDENCE OR PREMISES: Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual under twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or allow an event or
gathering at any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present when the person knows
or reasonably should know that an underage person will or does:
         a.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
         b.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
         c.   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession
or consumption by the underage person(s).
      2.   A person is criminally responsible for violating subsection B1 of
this section if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or
conspires with or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
      3.   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parents' household.
      2.   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      3.   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2
percent malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit
holders who are regulated by Minnesota statutes section 340A.503 subdivision 1
(a)(1). (Ord. 2010-7, 7-26-2010)
4-4-20: OFFENSES RELATING TO PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY FLOOD CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to protect and preserve the
rights, privileges and property of the city of Moorhead and its residents and
to preserve and improve the peace, safety, health and welfare of its residents
by restricting or prohibiting actions which are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flooding.
   B.   Definitions:
   AUTHORIZED PERSON: A city employee, law enforcement officer, national guard
member, or city retained contractor authorized by city engineering personnel.
   EASEMENT: An interest in land owned by another that entitles its holder to a
specific limited use.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of streams or rivers or
from the unusual and rapid runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD CONTROL: Refers to all methods, temporary and permanent, used to
reduce or prevent the detrimental effects of floodwaters.
   FLOODGATE: A gate and its associated structure used for controlling the flow
of water in a sewer or drainage works.
   FLOODWALL: A primarily vertical artificial barrier designed to temporarily
contain the waters of a river or other waterway which may rise to unusual
levels during seasonal or extreme weather events.
   LEVEE: An embankment raised to prevent a river from overflowing.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the city has an interest,
including other dedicated rights of way for travel purposes and utility
easements of the city.
   PUMP: A device that raises, transfers, delivers, or compresses fluids or
that attenuates gases especially by suction or pressure or both.
   SANDBAG: A bag filled with sand and used as ballast in the formation of
protective walls.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary wastewater and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants
and institutions.
   SEWER: Pipe or conduit for carrying stormwater or wastewater.
   SEWER PLUG: A temporary device used to block the flow of water in a sewer.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only stormwaters, surface runoff,
street wash waters and drainage.
   C.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to interfere with the
construction of permanent or temporary earthen, clay or sandbag levees
constructed within public right of way or permanent or temporary easement.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person(s) to trespass upon
any permanent or temporary earthen, clay or sandbag levee, floodwall, or other
temporary flood control measure during a period of emergency declaration.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person(s) to operate a
motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or construction equipment upon or across
any permanent or temporary earthen, clay or sandbag levee.
      4.   No person(s) shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, dismantle, uncover, deface or tamper with any flood control
measure including earthen, clay or sandbag levees, floodwalls or floodwall
enclosures.
      5.   No person(s) shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the storm or sanitary sewer.
      6.   No unauthorized person(s) shall be permitted to open or close
floodgates or sewer plugs.
      7.   No unauthorized person(s) shall be permitted to operate city owned
or rented pumps, including PTO driven pumps.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) to make any unauthorized
discharge into the sanitary or storm sewer system.
      9.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person(s) to drive around
any cones or barricades designating a road closure.
      10.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person(s) to make
admittance into an evacuation area, unless they are a resident of that area.
      11.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person(s) to redirect
city flood control resources including, but not limited to, filled sandbags,
empty sandbags, sand, sandbag making equipment, construction equipment or human
resources. (Ord. 2011-03, 3-21-2011)
4-4-21: OFFENSES RELATING TO DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (Rep. by Ord. 2024-02, 2-26-2024)
4-4-22: DISRUPTIVE INTOXICATION:
   A.   Declaration Of Policy: It is the policy of the city of Moorhead to
provide for the safety, health and welfare of the public while prohibiting
certain harmful conduct of intoxicated persons.
   B.   Definitions: The following words and terms, when used in this section,
shall have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
    INTOXICATED PERSON: A person who is presently impaired, mentally or
emotionally, as a result of the presence of alcohol, drugs, a controlled
substance in the person's body or a combination thereof. Evidence of an
intoxicated person may include, but is not limited to, any combination of the
following indicators:
      1.   Odor of intoxicants on the breath,
      2.   Bloodshot, watery eyes,
      3.   Dilated pupils,
      4.   Stumbling or staggering,
      5.   Slurred speech,
      6.   Indicators of standardized field sobriety tests,
      7.   Opinion of a drug recognition expert/evaluator,
      8.   Alcohol concentration of .08 or more as taken by a portable breath
test (PBT),
      9.   Unconsciousness or unresponsiveness.
   PUBLIC DISRUPTION: Conduct by an individual to include loud, boisterous
yelling, urinating in public, lewd or combative conduct, harassing or offensive
conduct, behavior that will tend to alarm, anger or disturb others, disobeying
a police officer's lawful command or interfering with the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. Such conduct includes being found in a public place
unconscious or unresponsive due to intoxication or when an individual is
intoxicated and refuses to leave private property when directed by the owner or
person(s) in control of the private property.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Includes a building or place controlled by the city, a school,
a place of worship, any public street, including public sidewalk, alley, walk
or other publicly owned lands. Public place shall include privately owned
buildings or parking lots that are open to the public by invitation or custom,
such as businesses and apartment complexes. Public place excludes the premises
of a licensed alcohol establishment.
   C.   Disruptive Intoxication: No person, while intoxicated in a public
place, shall conduct him or herself so as to be a danger to themselves or
others and/or engage in public disruption.
   D.   Sobriety Testing: No person shall be cited under this section without
first having been offered and failed the standardized field sobriety test or a
portable breath test (PBT); however, a person incapable and/or having refused
field sobriety testing or a PBT may be cited under the criteria set forth in
subsection B of this section.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be,
upon conviction, penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2014-06, 5-27-2014)
4-4-23: CATALYTIC CONVERTERS:
   A.    Purpose: The City recognizes theft of catalytic converters has risen
dramatically in the community. Catalytic converters are targeted for theft
because they are located on the exterior of cars and because they contain high
value metals that can be sold for scrap. The City wishes to minimize theft by
prohibiting the possession of a used catalytic converter that is not attached
to a motor vehicle unless the individual provides verification of legal
receipt.
   B.    Definitions: For purposes of this Section, the following words and
terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
 
                     A device incorporated in the exhaust system of a motor
CATALYTIC CONVERTER: vehicle, containing a catalyst for converting gases into
                     less toxic pollutants.
 
   C.   Possession of Catalytic Converters: No person shall be in possession of
a used catalytic converter that is not attached to a motor vehicle unless the
person can provide verification of legal receipt of the catalytic converter.
(Ord. 2022-11, 4-25-2022)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Reserved by Ord. 2022-18, 8-22-2022)
CHAPTER 6
EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Scope
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Mandatory Permits for Acquisition and Use
4-6-3-1: Permit Required
4-6-3-2: Permit Application
4-6-3-3: Permit Denial, Suspension or Revocation
4-6-3-4: Transferability Restrictions
4-6-4: Seller's Record Maintained
4-6-5: Storage and Security Requirements
4-6-6: Report of Thefts
4-6-7: Bomb Threats
4-6-8: Penalty
4-6-1: SCOPE:
This Chapter shall apply to the manufacture, keeping, having, storage, sale,
transportation and use of explosives and blasting agents. However, this Chapter
shall not apply:
   A.   To the following:
      1.   Transportation of explosives or blasting agents when under the
jurisdiction of and in compliance with the regulations of the Federal
Department of Transportation.
      2.   Shipment, transportation and handling of military explosives by the
armed forces of the United States and the State militia.
      3.   Transportation and use of explosives or blasting agents in the
normal and emergency operation of Federal agencies or State or municipal fire
and police departments, providing they are acting in their official capacities
and in the proper performance of their duties.
      4.   Sale and use (public display) of pyrotechnics commonly known as
fireworks. See Section
4-4-12 for regulations of fireworks.
   B.   To the following commodities and items:
      1.   Stocks of small arms ammunition; propellant-actuated power
cartridges; small arms ammunition primers in quantities of less than one
million (1,000,000) smokeless propellant in quantities of less than seven
hundred fifty (750) pounds.
      2.   Explosive actuated power devices when in quantities of less than
fifty (50) pounds net weight of explosives.
      3.   Fuse lighters and fuse igniters.
      4.   Safety fuse (safety fuse does not include cordeau detonant fuse),
and 3/32 inch cannon fuses or matchlock fuses (slow match).
      5.   The sale or transfer of black powder or other commonly used
nonsmokeless propellant in individual transactions involving quantities of five
(5) pounds or less when used for muzzle loaded sports equipment or used in the
hand loading of sports equipment.
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following words are used as defined below:
BLASTING AGENT: Any material or mixture consisting of a fuel and oxidizer
intended for blasting, not otherwise classified as an explosive and in which
none of the ingredients are classified as an explosive, provided that the
finished product, as mixed and packaged for use or shipment, cannot be
detonated by means of a No. 8 test blasting cap when unconfined.
NOTE 1: A No. 8 test blasting cap is one containing two (2) grams of a mixture
of eighty percent (80%) mercury fulminate and twenty percent (20%) potassium
chlorate, or a cap of equivalent strength.
NOTE 2: Nitro-Carbo-Nitrate. This term applies to any blasting agent which has
been classified as nitro-carbo- nitrate under the Department of Transportation
regulations, and which is packaged and shipped in compliance with the
regulations of the Department of Transportation.
EXPLOSIVE-ACTUATED POWER DEVICES: Any tool or special mechanized device which
is actuated POWER DEVICES by explosives, but not to include propellant-actuated
power devices. Examples of explosive- actuated power devices are jet tappers
and jet perforators.
EXPLOSIVE or EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary
or common purpose of which is to function by explosion, i.e., with
substantially instantaneous release of gas and heat, unless such compound,
mixture or device is otherwise specifically classified by the DOT (formerly
ICC). The term "explosives" shall include all material (cont.) which is
classified as Class A, Class B and Class C explosives by the DOT (formerly
ICC), and includes, but is not limited to, dynamite, black powder, pellet
powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps, safety
fuse, instantaneous fuse, igniter cord, igniters, small arms ammunition, small
arms ammunition primers, smokeless cartridges for industrial guns and some
special fireworks. (Commercial explosives are those explosives which are
intended to be used in commercial or industrial operations.)
NOTE 1: Classification of explosives is described by the Department of
Transportation, DOT (formerly Interstate Commerce Commission, ICC) as follows:
Class A Explosives: Possessing, detonating or otherwise maximum hazard; such as
dynamite, nitroglycerin, picric acid, lead azide, fulminate of mercury, black
powder, blasting caps and detonating primers.
Class B Explosives: Possessing flammable hazard, such as propellant explosives
(including some smokeless propellants), photographic flash powders, and some
special fireworks.
Class C Explosives: Includes certain types of manufactured articles which
contain Class A or Class B explosives, or both, as components but in restricted
quantities.
Forbidden or Not Acceptable Explosives: Explosives which are forbidden or not
acceptable for transportation by common carriers, by rail freight, rail
express, highway or water in accordance with the regulations of the DOT
(formerly ICC).
NOTE 2: Certain chemicals and certain fuel materials may have explosive
characteristics which are not specifically classified by the DOT (formerly ICC)
and are not readily classified for coverage in the code. Authoritative
information should be obtained for such unclassified materials and action
commensurate with their hazards, location, isolation and safeguards, should be
taken.
HIGHWAY: Any public street, public alley or public road.
INHABITED BUILDINGS: A building or structure regularly used in whole or in part
as a place of human habitation. The term "inhabited building" shall also mean
any church, school, store, railway passenger station, airport terminal for
passengers, and any other building or structure where people are accustomed to
congregate or assemble, but excluding any building or structure occupied in
connection with the manufacture, transportation, storage and use of explosives.
MAGAZINE: Any building or structure, other than an explosives manufacturing
building, approved for the storage of explosives.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle, truck, tractor, semi- trailer or
truck-full trailer used for the transportation of freight over public highways.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association and including any trustee, receiver, assignee or
personal representative thereof.
PROPELLANT-ACTUATED POWER DEVICES: Any tool or special mechanized device or gas
generator system which is actuated by a smokeless propellant or which releases
and directs work through a smokeless propellant charge.
PUBLIC CONVEYANCE: Any railroad car, street car, ferry, cab, bus, airplane or
other vehicle which is carrying passengers for hire.
RAILWAY: Any steam, electric, diesel or other railroad or railway which carries
passengers for hire.
SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION: Any shotgun, rifle, pistol or revolver cartridge, and
cartridge for propellant-actuated power devices and industrial guns. Military-
type ammunition containing explosive bursting charges, spotting or pyrotechnic
projectiles are excluded from this definition.
SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION PRIMERS: Small percussion-sensitive explosive charges,
encased in a cup, used to ignite propellant powder.
SMOKELESS PROPELLANTS: Smokeless propellants, commonly called smokeless powders
in the trade, used in small arms ammunition, cannon, rockets, propellant-
actuated power devices, etc.
SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL EXPLOSIVES MATERIALS: Shaped materials and sheet forms and
various other extrusions, pellets and packages of high explosives, which
include dynamite, TNT, PETN, RDX and other similar compounds used for high-
energy-rate forming, expanding and shaping in metal fabrication, and for
dismemberment and quick reduction of scrap metal.
4-6-3: MANDATORY PERMITS FOR ACQUISITION AND USE:
4-6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any persons to acquire, possess, use, sell or handle
any explosive as defined in section
4-6-2 of this chapter except as otherwise provided by section
4-6-1 of this chapter, within the city, without having a permit in their
possession. Such a permit shall be issued only by the city clerk upon approval
of the council.
   A.   Application: Any person desiring a permit as required by this section
shall make application therefor in writing to the city clerk on such forms as
the council may prescribe.
   B.   Investigation Of Applicant: Before any permit is issued by the city
clerk, the city clerk shall notify the fire department and the police
department that such permit is desired. Upon receipt of such notification, the
fire and police departments shall inspect the premises upon which the applicant
desires to store, handle and use the explosives set forth in the application
and if satisfied: 1) that no serious fire hazard will be created, and 2) that
the applicant plans to store and use the explosives in the manner prescribed by
this chapter, the fire and police departments shall endorse approval upon said
application and return it to the city clerk who shall present the same to the
council.
   C.   Persons Ineligible For Permit: The council shall deny the issuance of
any such permit to anyone who:
      1.   Has been convicted within the past ten (10) years of a felony or
gross misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or anyone who is presently under
indictment for any such crime; or
      2.   Has been within the past ten (10) years convicted of a crime in
which the use, possession or sale of narcotics or illicit drugs was an element;
or
      3.   Has been treated within the past ten (10) years for addiction to
narcotic or illicit drugs, or has been within such time period admitted to any
hospital or institution for treatment of narcotic or illicit drug addiction, or
has been within such time period certified by a licensed medical doctor as
being addicted to narcotic or illicit drugs; or
      4.   Has been within the past ten (10) years treated for alcohol
addiction, admitted to any hospital or institution for treatment of alcohol
addiction, or certified by a licensed medical doctor as being addicted to
alcohol; or
      5.   Has been within the past ten (10) years admitted to any hospital or
institution because of or for treatment of any mental deficiency, or certified
by a licensed medical doctor as being mentally ill or mentally deficient; or
      6.   Has been within the past ten (10) years acquitted of any criminal
charge by reason of insanity; or
      7.   Is not twenty one (21) years of age at the time when application for
such permit is made. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
   D.   Issuance, Fee: If the council grants the permit, the city clerk shall,
upon receipt of a fee as established by the city's fee schedule, prepare and
deliver to said applicant such permit as is requested in said application,
provided that no permit shall be granted for a period exceeding ninety (90)
days. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to
1-1-2008)
4-6-3-2: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The application for a user's permit shall be sworn to by the applicant and
shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The applicant's date of birth;
   C.   Where applicant intends to permanently store the explosives intended
for use, and the storage security measures provided at the storage and use
sites;
   D.   The applicant's intended use for explosives purchased pursuant to any
permit that may be issued to the applicant; and
   E.   All such additional information as may be prescribed by the council in
determining whether the applicant is qualified pursuant to section
4-6-3-1 of this chapter to possess such permit. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-3-3: PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A permit as defined by the provisions of this chapter may be denied, suspended
or revoked in accordance with the provisions of section 2-1-10B of this code
for any violation of the provisions of this chapter or upon the creation or
existence of any condition which would, in the opinion of the fire and police
departments, create or tend to create a serious fire hazard. (Ord. 458, 10-19-
1970)
4-6-3-4: TRANSFERABILITY RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall sell, transfer or give away any explosive or blasting agent to
anyone who does not possess a valid permit issued pursuant to section
4-6-3-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-4: SELLER'S RECORD MAINTAINED:
   A.   Any persons selling or giving away any explosives covered by this
chapter shall at all times keep an accurate record, in bound books, of all such
explosives handled by them, indicating a detailed account of:
      1.   Date of each transference of explosives;
      2.   Amount of each such transference;
      3.   Name and address of each purchaser or transferee;
      4.   Manufacturer of the explosives being transferred;
      5.   The type of and any identification numbers of explosives being
transferred;
      6.   Explosives owner's or user's permit number;
      7.   Intended place of storage of the explosive by the purchaser or
transferee;
      8.   Intended use site; and
      9.   Security measures provided at the storage site and at the use site.
   B.   Such record book shall at all reasonable times be open to the
inspection of the fire department and police department and all duly
constituted law enforcement officials of the city. In addition, on the first
day of every month, the seller or transferer shall make a report to the fire
and police departments of the transactions which took place that month. (Ord.
458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-5: STORAGE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
Any person storing, handling, using or in any way disposing of explosives
covered by this chapter shall maintain minimum safety and security features of
all permanent and temporary storage facilities in a manner prescribed by the
rules and regulations of the Minnesota state fire marshal governing the
storage, handling, use and transportation of blasting agents and explosives.
(Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-6: REPORT OF THEFTS:
Any persons who have explosives in their possession and who incur a loss or
theft of all or a portion thereof, upon discovery of such loss or theft, shall
immediately and in no event longer than twenty four (24) hours from the time of
discovery, inform the police department of the loss or theft, the amount
missing and the approximate time of the occurrence. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-7: BOMB THREATS:
It shall be unlawful for any persons:
   A.   As a threat, to communicate or cause to be communicated the fact that a
bomb or any other explosive device has been placed or will be placed or
detonated in any building or in any location other than a building.
   B.   To threaten to bomb any person, place or building.
   C.   To knowingly permit any telephone or other means of communication under
their control to be used for any purposes prohibited by this section.
   D.   As a threat or hoax, to place or cause to be placed in any location any
article, constructed or placed with intent to give the impression that said
article possesses explosive capabilities or to place an article or container
which does have explosive capacity in a location intending it as a hoax, threat
or to induce fear in others. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
4-6-8: PENALTY:
Any persons violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 458, 10-19-1970)
CHAPTER 7
HUNTING AND TRAPPING
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Designated Areas
4-7-3: Permitted Uses Of Bows And Firearms
4-7-4: Bow And Firearm Prohibitions
4-7-5: Taking Of Game Animal Regulations
4-7-6: Hunting Map
4-7-7: Trapping Permitted In Designated Areas And Prohibitions
4-7-8: Violations
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
BOW: Any device capable of propelling an arrow or similar projectile for a
distance greater than fifty feet (50').
CARRY: The handling or transportation of a bow or firearm concealed or
otherwise outside a person's domicile.
DISMANTLED BOW OR FIREARM: Any unloaded firearm or bow which is dismantled in
such a manner so as to prevent shooting it.
ENCASED BOW OR FIREARM: Any unloaded bow or firearm, placed in a case which is
tied or otherwise secured, to prevent shooting it.
FIREARM: A device that discharges shot or a projectile by means of an
explosive, a gas, a spring or compressed air.
LANDOWNER: Any person, group, firm or corporation owning, leasing or legally
controlling any lands within the territorial limits of the city.
NONRESTRICTED: That area in the city in which the use of firearms and bows and
arrows are regulated only by state and federal statutes, without any further
restrictions of this chapter.
PROJECTILE: Any object intended and capable of being discharged from a bow or
firearm.
RESTRICTED: That area of the city in which the use of firearms and bows and
arrows is restricted by regulations included in this chapter in addition to
state and federal statutes.
RESTRICTED SHOTGUN: That area of the city in which hunting with a firearm is
restricted to the use of a shotgun.
SHOOTING: The firing or discharge of any bow or firearm.
SUITABLE BACKSTOP: Any natural or manmade barrier of sufficient mass, size, or
construction to wholly contain the projectile being discharged from a bow or
firearm.
TRAPPING: The act of setting or laying a trap used to catch, snare or kill an
animal or bird.
WRITTEN PERMISSION: A written document containing the following information:
the full name, address, date of birth and signature of the person authorized to
hunt or shoot; the full name, address, date of birth, and the signature of the
landowner providing the permission. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-8-2014)
4-7-2: DESIGNATED AREAS:
For purposes of regulating the use of bows and firearms within the city, all
area within the corporate city limits are subject to all state regulations and
the city of Moorhead weapons ordinance (section
4-4-12 of this title). Hunting during a state recognized hunting season in city
designated hunting areas is the only exception to the city ordinance regulating
carrying or discharge of weapons within the city limits.
Designated hunting areas within the city of Moorhead include rural residential,
agricultural, and public flood mitigation areas in tract 2 of Oakport Township
that are at least two hundred feet (200') from any structure, roadway, park,
public trail system, or other person's private property who have not given
written permission to the hunter for bow discharges and at least five hundred
feet (500') for any firearm discharges. Designated areas do not include public
roadways or rights of way.
Designated hunting areas are approved by council. (Ord. 2015-11, 5-11-2015)
4-7-3: PERMITTED USES OF BOWS AND FIREARMS:
In designated hunting areas, the shooting or carrying of bows and firearms
which are not encased or dismantled is permitted under the following
circumstances unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law:
   A.   By law enforcement officers in the line of duty or military personnel
in the line of duty.
   B.   By any person to resist or prevent an offense which that person
reasonably believes exposes him or her or another person to great bodily harm
or death.
   C.   By any person on a rifle, trap, archery or target range established in
accordance with the city's zoning ordinance or as part of a city sponsored or
authorized activity.
   D.   By any person target practicing with a bow and a suitable backstop in
an area zoned rural residential and at least two hundred feet (200') from all
buildings, unless the buildings are owned by him or her or unless he or she has
the owner's written permission carried on his or her person. Bow and arrow
target practice may also take place within the confines of a building if a
suitable backstop is used.
   E.   Bow and firearm use for hunting purposes is permitted in designated
hunting areas during state hunting seasons. All deer firearm hunting must be
done from an elevated stand of a minimum of five feet (5') and use only single
projectiles (slugs). All hunting shall be in accordance with all applicable
state laws and regulations. (Ord. 2015-11, 5-11-2015)
4-7-4: BOW AND FIREARM PROHIBITIONS:
Except as specifically allowed in section
4-7-3 of this chapter:
   A.   Unless it is encased or dismantled, the carrying of a bow or firearm in
a motor vehicle, in a place or area open to the public or in any private place
or area, unless the private place or area is owned by the person carrying the
bow or firearm, has the owner's permission, or as allowed by Minnesota statutes
section 624.714 for valid permit to carry persons, is prohibited under section
4-4-12 of this title.
   B.   The shooting of or hunting using a bow or firearm is prohibited.
   C.   Carrying or shooting a bow or firearm by any person under the age of
fourteen (14) is prohibited except when accompanied by a parent, adult guardian
or certified safety training instructor. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-8-2014)
4-7-5: TAKING OF GAME ANIMAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Field Dressing: Field dressing of a game animal shall be out of view of
the general public and any entrails must be removed from public lands or if
within two hundred feet (200') of another's property to reduce the chances of
discovery by an unsuspecting citizen, reduce odor and unsightliness, and to
reduce the attraction of other predators or scavengers.
   B.   Trespassing: Always ask permission before entering private land or as
described in Minnesota statutes section 97B.001. (Ord. 2015-11, 5-11-2015)
4-7-6: HUNTING MAP:
Hunting map on file with the city. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-8-2014)
4-7-7: TRAPPING PERMITTED IN DESIGNATED AREAS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Permitted Where; Exceptions:
      1.   Trapping is permitted in designated hunting areas. Trapping shall be
conducted in accordance with all applicable state laws and regulations.
Trapping may be conducted by an owner, members of the owner's family or by
written consent of the owner of the property. Written consent shall be carried
on the person while trapping is being conducted on the property.
      2.   In addition, trapping shall not be done:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of any city, county or state park land or
other public property. This restriction shall include public roadways and the
fifty feet (50') shall be measured from the curb or edge of the roadway.
         b.   Within twenty five feet (25') of any property line when the
trapping is conducted in an area zoned as rural residential.
         c.   Within twenty five feet (25') of any property line when the
trapping is conducted in an area zoned as agriculture if the adjoining property
is not also zoned as agriculture.
   B.   Restrictions Of Types And Sizes Of Traps: Traps used in the permitted
areas are restricted as follows:
      1.   Snare traps are prohibited.
      2.   No leg hold trap larger than #2 or conibear type with a jaw spread
larger than six and one-half inches (61/2") shall be used.
      3.   If conibear type traps are to be baited or bait is used in
conjunction with the trap sets, it must be set in the following way: They must
be set in a cubby with the trap inserted a minimum of seven inches (7") from
the front, with the cubby opening no more than fifty (50) square inches in
area. Openings may be restricted with wire mesh, wood strips, or other
material.
   C.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to:
      1.   Quick kill trapping if the traps are designed and intended to kill
rats, mice, gophers or moles.
      2.   Live trapping of wild animals.
      3.   Any person duly appointed and designated through city council action
for the purpose of wildlife management and control. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-8-2014)
4-7-8: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any section of this chapter are a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2014-31, 12-
8-2014)
CHAPTER 8
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Rules And Regulations
4-8-4: Prohibitions
4-8-5: Charges For Excessive Alarms
4-8-6: Limitation Of Liability
4-8-7: Severability
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The City of Moorhead deems it necessary to provide for the special and express
regulations of alarm systems which are designed to signal the presence of a
hazard requiring urgent attention and to which the Police Department personnel
are expected to respond, in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. The purpose of this chapter is to encourage alarm users to maintain
the operational reliability and proper use of alarm systems and to reduce or
eliminate false alarms. This chapter governs systems intended to summon police,
establishes fees, provides for penalties for violations, and establishes a
system of administration. This chapter does not apply to vehicular alarms.
(Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-2022)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
ALARM PERIOD:             January 1 through December 31, calendar year.
                          Any device designed for the detection of an
                          unauthorized entry on premises or for alerting others
ALARM SYSTEM:             of the commission of an unlawful act, or both, and,
                          when actuated, emits a sound or transmits a signal or
                          message which causes the Police department to be
                          alerted.
                          Any person who installed an alarm system that uses
ALARM USER:               alarm answering services to notify Police for a
                          Police response. Government properties and facilities
                          are exempt from the Alarm user definition.
                          A telephone answering service which receives
ANSWERING SERVICE:        emergency signals from alarm systems, and thereafter
                          immediately relaying the message by live voice to the
                          communication center of the police department.
                          An automated alarm system which sends a prerecorded
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: voice message or coded signal indicating the
                          existence of the emergency situation which the alarm
                          system is designed to detect.
                          The activation of an alarm system caused by anything
FALSE ALARM:              other than an emergency, criminal activity, or
                          weather.
PERSON:                   Any individual, partnership, corporation, association
                          or other entity. (Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-2022)
 
4-8-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Chief of Police or his/her designee may prescribe rules and regulations for
alarm systems, including but not limited to the following:
   A.   Minimum standards for the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of
alarm system;
   B.   Specific provisions relating to testing procedures;
   C.   Minimum standards for the training of alarm business personnel.
A copy of any rules and/or regulations for alarm systems shall be available at
the office of the City Clerk. The Chief of Police or his/her designee is
authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected the premises of the alarm
business and the premises whereon the alarm system is located. (Ord. 2022-01,
3-28-2022)
4-8-4: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to activate any police alarm system for the
purpose of summoning police except in the event of what is reasonably believed
to be an unlawful act and/or an unauthorized entry on premises. Whenever a
police alarm system has been designed and commonly understood to alert others
of the commission of a particular crime, it shall be unlawful for anyone to
activate such police alarm system for the purpose of summoning police except in
the event of what is reasonably believed to be such particular crime. It shall
be unlawful to install or use a police alarm system which upon activation emits
a sound similar to sirens in use on emergency vehicles or for civil defense
purposes. (Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-2022)
4-8-5: CHARGES FOR EXCESSIVE ALARMS:
   A.   Any alarm user who maintains or has an alarm system which signals more
than three (3) false excessive alarms in an alarm period as defined herein,
shall pay a fee to the city of Moorhead as outlined within the City Fee
Schedule. Alarm fees shall be cumulative and due immediately upon receipt of
billing notice.
   B.   Unpaid fees resulting from False Alarm(s) shall be charged as a special
assessment against the real estate upon which the structure is located and such
assessed fees shall be certified as other taxes are certified. Upon transfer of
ownership, the new owner(s) shall be responsible for all unpaid special
assessments.
   C.   The Chief of Police or his/her designee may suspend police response to
alarms without secondary verification, excluding panic and robbery alarms, in
the event the alarm user exceeds ten (10) false alarms in the alarm period. The
Chief of Police or his/her designee shall provide written notice mailed by
first class mail to the alarm user’s last known address advising of the
decision to suspend police response under these circumstances.
   D.   The following circumstances will not apply as a False Alarm:
      1.   A False Alarm which the Person that owns the property cancels prior
to Police arriving.
      2.   A False Alarm caused by acts of nature, utility line mishaps,
climatic conditions, or alarms occurring within the first 30 days of
installation of a new alarm system. (Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-2022)
4-8-6: LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
The city of Moorhead shall be under no duty or obligation to any alarm user or
to any other person hereunder by reason of any provision of this article,
including but not limited to any defects in a police alarm system or any delays
in transmission or response to any alarm. (Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-2022)
4-8-7: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that any part or provision of this article, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is adjudged invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the
part, provision or application directly involved in the said controversy, and
shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of this article or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. (Ord. 2022-01, 3-28-
2022)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: State Highway Traffic Regulation Act Adopted
5-1-3: Stop Signs
5-1-4: U-Turns (Rep. by Ord. 2011-14, 9-26-2011)
5-1-5: Backing Restrictions
5-1-6: Railroads
5-1-7: Vehicle Equipment; Mufflers
5-1-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
5-1-9: Exhibition Driving Prohibited
5-1-10: Impounding And Disposition Of Vehicles
5-1-11: Motor Vehicle Drivers' Licenses
5-1-12: Avoiding Semaphore And Traffic Control Devices Illegally
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this title shall have the meanings set forth in section 169.01 of
the Minnesota statutes unless otherwise provided:
AVENUE: Those streets or roadways within the city limits which contain the word
"Avenue" in their name as posted. "Avenue" shall also be considered to mean
those streets or roadways within the city limits which contain the word "Lane",
"Circle" or "Boulevard" within their name as posted.
CONGESTED ZONE: That portion of Center Avenue between the highway bridge across
the Red River to and including 14th Street; Main Avenue from the highway bridge
crossing the Red River to and including 14th Street North, Fourth, Fifth,
Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and Fourteenth Streets between
First Avenue North and Main Avenue shall comprise the congested zone.
DIRECTION: Unless otherwise excepted under the definition of "street" herein,
shall be considered to run in a generally north- south direction and avenues
will be considered to run in a generally east-west direction.
DOUBLE PARKING: The parking of a vehicle upon any highway, street or avenue
alongside another vehicle parked between it and the curb.
DRIVER: A person in actual physical control of a vehicle while it is being
driven, or who is directly charged with the control, as the driver, when it is
not being driven.
PARKING: The voluntary standing of a vehicle upon any highway, street or avenue
whether accompanied or unaccompanied by an operator; but, where the driver of a
vehicle seeks to load or unload passengers, goods or merchandise in or from the
vehicle, then parking shall mean the standing of the vehicle upon the highway,
street or avenue only for the period of time which is reasonably necessary to
load or unload passengers or goods close at hand ready to be loaded or unloaded
as the case may be.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: Shall be considered the entire width between boundary lines
of any way or place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as
a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic, as defined by chapter 169
of the Minnesota statutes, as such chapter may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced. Streets in the city may be designated "Streets",
"Drives", "Courts", "Avenues", "Lanes", "Circles", "Boulevards" or "Ways".
VEHICLE: Every vehicle, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorized bicycle, bicycle,
snowmobile, trailer or semitrailer as the same are defined in chapter 169 of
the Minnesota statutes, as such chapter may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced, or as known in the highway traffic regulations, as
adopted by the council, as such regulations may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.01; Ord. 485,
4-17-1972; Ord. 512, 9-4-1973)
5-1-2: STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED:
The regulatory provisions of chapter 169 of the Minnesota statutes, as such
chapter may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced, including
the penalty and definition provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and by
reference made a part of this title as completely as if set out herein in full
and shall be applicable within the city. (Ord. 174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code
§61.02)
5-1-3: STOP SIGNS:
   A.   All stop signs placed and maintained at highway entrances to the state
trunk highways by the state commissioner of highways are ratified and confirmed
as being also stop devices under this title. Stop signs conforming to state
manual and specifications shall be installed and maintained on the right side
of each public street entrance to all of the through streets which are not
state trunk highways.
   B.   The council may, by resolution, order stop signs installed on streets
as it may deem necessary for public safety, or eliminate by resolution stop
signs previously established. (Ord. 174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.03)
5-1-4: U TURNS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2011-14, 9-26-2011)
5-1-5: BACKING RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall back any vehicle in or through any intersection within the
city, and no person shall back any vehicle around any corner at any
intersection within the city limits at any time, unless so directed by a police
officer, nor shall any person back a vehicle on a street or roadway in a
direction that would be against the proper flow of traffic unless so directed
by a police officer. (Ord. 512, 9-4-1973)
5-1-6: RAILROADS:
   A.   Speed: All railroad trains, engines, cars and other vehicles moving on
fixed rails within the city limits shall be operated at a reasonable speed and
with due care.
   B.   Noise: No train within the limits of the city shall make any undue or
unnecessary noises by the blowing of whistles or ringing of bells, and all such
noises are declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 108; amd. 1967 Code §61.16)
5-1-7: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT; MUFFLERS:
   A.   Every motor vehicle within the city shall at all times be equipped with
a muffler in good working order which blends the exhaust noise into the overall
vehicle noise and is in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise, and no person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon
a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city. The exhaust system shall not emit
or produce a sharp popping or cracking sound nor shall it emit or produce loud
or explosive noises.
   B.   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon the streets of the city in
violation of this section, and any person operating a motor vehicle in
violation hereof shall, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the
provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code.
   C.   The police department shall be authorized to impound any motor vehicle
found to be in violation of this section, and shall have a lien against said
motor vehicle for all impounding, towing and storing costs resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 511, 8-20-1973)
5-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Glass On Streets: No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any
glass, nail, tack, wire, can or any other injurious substance. Any person
moving a wrecked or damaged vehicle from the street shall remove any glass or
other injurious substance dropped on the highway from the vehicle. (Ord. 174;
amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.15)
   B.   Commit Offense: No person shall commit or attempt to commit, conspire
to commit or aid or abet in the commission of any act declared an offense
whether individually or in connection with one or more persons or as principal.
No person shall falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induce, cause,
coerce, require, permit or direct another to violate any of the provisions of
this title. (Ord. 174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.18)
   C.   Owner's Responsibility: No owner or other person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of any vehicle shall require or knowingly permit the
operation of the vehicle upon a street in any manner contrary to law. (Ord.
174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.19)
5-1-9: EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED:
No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by tires, or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section. (Ord. 844, 11-17-1986)
5-1-10: IMPOUNDING AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Impounding Procedures:
      1.   Establishment: The council may establish and provide one or more
impounding lots for the purpose of keeping and storing impounded motor
vehicles.
      2.   Removal Of Vehicle: Whenever any police officer finds any vehicle
obstructing the traffic or improperly parked so as to be hazardous to public
safety on any street or obstructing the entrance of any private driveway, or
interfering with the maintenance, cleaning, repairing or snow removal on any
streets 1 , or if the vehicle needs to be safeguarded after its driver has been
arrested, the officer may remove the vehicle and hold it in the impounding lot
or lots or until the city is reimbursed for all costs and charges of the
removal and storage or until the same has been disposed of as hereinafter
provided. This subsection shall be applicable to any motor vehicle found
standing in or upon any street where the same has not been moved or used for a
period of twenty four (24) hours, regardless of the requirements set out in
this title. (Ord. 196; amd. 1967 Code §61.22)
      3.   Charges: The city council shall set the fee for towing a motor
vehicle so impounded from the place where found to the place where it is
impounded, an administrative fee and a storage fee for the motor vehicle so
impounded, as established by the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 90-26, 1-22-1991;
amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
      4.   Lien: The city shall have a lien upon the motor vehicle for the tow
charge and for ground use. If any sum secured by such lien be not paid within
thirty (30) days after the motor vehicle has been impounded, the city may sell
the property and out of the proceeds of the sale there shall be paid first, all
charges and disbursements of the sale; second, all charges paid by the city to
any other person in connection with the towing and storage of the motor vehicle
and third, the total indebtedness then secured by the lien.
      5.   Foreclosure By Sale: The sale shall be made at public auction where
the property is situated. A notice stating the time and place of sale, the
amount which will be due on the date of sale exclusive of the expenses of
advertising and sale, and the grounds of the lien, giving a general description
of the property to be sold, shall be served personally on the owner of the
property if the owner can be found within the city or within the county in
which the property is stored, and if the owner cannot be found, then it shall
be mailed to the owner at least three (3) weeks before the time fixed for the
sale if the place of residence or post office address of the owner is known to
the city officials or with due diligence can be learned by the city
authorities, and shall be published once in each week for three (3) successive
weeks in the official newspaper. The last publication of such notice shall be
at least one week prior to the date of sale. In case neither the place of
residence nor the post office address of such owner is known to the city
authorities and cannot with reasonable diligence be learned, the publication of
notice shall be sufficient to authorize such sale.
      6.   Sale: The property sold shall be in view at the time of the sale.
Under the power of sale, any motor vehicle impounded may be sold to satisfy the
amount due at the time of sale, including expenses, and the property may be
offered for sale and sold in the form and condition that the same was received
by the city. The city, its representatives or officials, may fairly and in good
faith purchase any property sold under this section, provided the sale is
conducted by the sheriff of the county, the sheriff's deputy or a licensed
auctioneer.
      7.   Papers To Be Filed: All papers had and made in connection with the
sale provided for shall be filed with the city clerk.
      8.   Foreclosure By Action: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from foreclosing the lien by action in the district court and pursuant to
the order of the court made in such action.
      9.   Release Of Impounded Vehicles: No person shall take from the
impounding lot or other place designated by the council, any impounded vehicle
without first paying all charges and liens against the same.
      10.   Records: The police department shall keep a full and complete
record of all motor vehicles impounded together with a record of all charges
and fees against the same in a book provided therefor by the city. (Ord. 196;
amd. 1967 Code §61.22)
   B.   Disposition Of Unclaimed Motor Vehicles: Any motor vehicle which is in
the custody of the city by reason of having impounded the same, or otherwise
lawfully coming into the possession of the city and remaining unclaimed by the
owner, may be disposed of by the city at a public auction sale conducted by a
representative of the police department in the following manner:
      1.   The vehicle must have been in possession of the city for a period of
not less than thirty (30) days after the mailing of notice to the registered
owner, if any.
      2.   Prior to disposal of any such motor vehicle, the city shall mail to
the registered owner, if any, as shown by the records of the state registrar of
motor vehicles, notice of its possession and intent to dispose of said motor
vehicle.
      3.   The definition of motor vehicle shall be the same as that set forth
in section 169, Minnesota statutes.
      4.   The motor vehicle shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction sale, notice of auction must be published in the official publication
of the city once each week for two (2) successive weeks.
      5.   The net proceeds of any such sale shall be placed in the general
revenue fund of the city, the net funds being described as the sale price less
any costs of handling, storing or sale of such vehicle. Any such net proceeds
shall be paid over to the former owner of the motor vehicle upon application
and satisfactory proof of ownership within six (6) months of the sale. (Ord.
440, 10-29-1969)
   C.   Impound Lots To Be Used:
      1.   All "impounded vehicles", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this code, shall not be towed to nor kept or stored at any place
other than an impound lot within the city.
      2.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle involved in
an accident within the city shall be towed to an impound lot, to a bona fide
auto repair garage or to the residence or business place of the owner thereof
subject to the limitations, conditions and requirements contained in this code.
      3.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum not to exceed seven hundred dollars
($700.00) or imprisoned in the county jail, or both. In addition to the
penalties set forth herein, the city may take such additional steps as may be
necessary, through means of injunction or restraining order from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction within Clay County, Minnesota, to
obtain enforcement of the provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 670, 1-22-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-6-7 of this title.
5-1-11: MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVERS' LICENSES 1 :
   A.   No persons shall operate or drive any motor vehicle upon any street or
highway in the city unless they have a valid license as a driver, appropriate
to the vehicle which they are operating and issued by the state of their
residence.
   B.   No persons shall operate or drive any motor vehicle upon any street or
highway in the city while their license is under suspension or under
revocation, pursuant to authority granted by state law to said commissioner of
highways of the department of public safety for the state of Minnesota, or when
their driving privileges are suspended or revoked by the appropriate agency of
the state of their residence or the agency issuing their driver's license.
(Ord. 473, 10-4-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA §171.01 et seq.
5-1-12: AVOIDING SEMAPHORE AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES ILLEGALLY:
   A.   Restriction: No person shall drive a motor vehicle across private
property in an attempt to avoid a semaphore or other traffic control device at
an intersection, unless so directed by a police officer.
   B.   Penalty: The penalty for violation of this section shall be a petty
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2001-11, 6-18-2001)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Parking Prohibited
5-2-2: Time Limit Parking
5-2-3: Restricted Parking
5-2-4: Parking Vehicles For Sale
5-2-5: Parking Lights
5-2-6: Snow Emergency Regulations
5-2-6-1: Declaration Of Emergency
5-2-6-2: Declaration Of Emergency To The Public
5-2-6-3: Parking Restrictions
5-2-6-4: Stalled Vehicle On Primary Snow Emergency Route
5-2-6-5: Snow Emergency Routes Designated
5-2-6-6: Signs To Mark Snow Emergency Routes And Snow Removal Districts
5-2-6-7: Violations; Impoundment
5-2-7: Parking Regulations Other Than During A Declared Snow Emergency
5-2-7-1: Declaration Of Snow Removal Status
5-2-7-2: Parking Schedule Established
5-2-7-3: Residential Parking Permits
5-2-8: Volunteers Authorized To Issue Parking Tickets
5-2-9: Parking Tickets
5-2-10: Penalties And Impoundment
5-2-11: Prohibition On Parking In Front And Side Yards
5-2-1: PARKING PROHIBITED:
No person shall park a vehicle in any of the following places:
   On a sidewalk;
   Within five feet (5') of a public or private driveway;
   Within an intersection;
   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant;
   On a crosswalk;
   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to the fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy
five feet (75') of said entrance when properly posted;
   On the road side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
roadway. (Ord. 174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.05)
5-2-2: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   No person shall park any vehicle on a public street contrary to posted
time limits as approved by the city council or for longer than twenty four (24)
hours in one location. It shall be necessary to move a parked vehicle a
distance of at least one city block. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-3: RESTRICTED PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: Vehicles on streets shall be parked in the direction
of flow of traffic substantially parallel with the curbside wheels resting not
more than eighteen inches (18") from the curb, or curb lines if there is no
curb.
   B.   Adjacent To Fire Hydrants: No person shall park an unattended vehicle
along any curb or edge of any roadway within the city within ten feet (10')
either side of a line extended perpendicular to said curb or said edge of a
roadway to a fire hydrant adjacent thereto.
   C.   Adjacent To Driveways: No person shall park an unattended vehicle
within five feet (5') of either side of a public or private driveway where such
public or private driveway enters or exits a public street or roadway within
the city.
   D.   Semitrailers: No semitrailer may be dollied down, or detached from the
truck-tractor on any public street, avenue, boulevard, or alley within the
city.
   E.   Commercial And Oversized Vehicle Restrictions In Residential Districts:
Certain commercial and oversized vehicles are restricted from parking on
streets in residential districts for more than one hour, except for the purpose
of loading or unloading, or when actively engaged in authorized construction,
delivery or repair services in the immediate area in which the vehicle is
parked. For the purpose of this section, restricted vehicles include:
      1.   Truck/trailer combinations, truck-tractors, and tractor/
semitrailers.
      2.   Buses designed for sixteen (16) or more passengers, including the
driver's seat.
      3.   Single unit, two (2) axle, six (6) tire vehicles.
      4.   Single unit vehicles consisting of three (3) or more axles having a
gross vehicle weight of fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds or more.
      5.   Commercial, industrial, or agricultural equipment, including, but
not limited to, nonlicensed off road equipment (tractors, payloaders, front end
loaders, and similar equipment).
   F.   Inoperable/Junk Vehicles: No partially dismantled, nonoperating,
wrecked or junked vehicle may be parked on any street or highway within the
city.
   G.   Snow Removal District: The city council may designate a snow removal
district in an area identified as high density with limited parking; such a
district must be posted as such. (Ord. 2016-18, 11-14-2016)
5-2-4: PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE:
No person shall stand any vehicle on a street for the purposes of displaying a
sign thereon that the vehicle is for sale or exchange, except when parked upon
a public street immediately adjacent to the property lines of the vehicle
owner's residence. (Ord. 2001-9, 5-7-2001)
5-2-5: PARKING LIGHTS:
The driver or owner of any vehicle is not required to display any lights upon
any vehicle when it is parked in accordance with this title upon any street
where there is sufficient light to clearly reveal any person or object within a
distance of five hundred feet (500') upon the street. When lighting is
insufficient to the above degree, the driver or owner of the parked vehicle
upon any street shall display warning lights on the vehicle. (Ord. 174; amd.
Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.11)
5-2-6: SNOW EMERGENCY REGULATIONS 1 :
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-10A2 of this title.
5-2-6-1: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever, in the opinion of the city manager or designee, an emergency exists
in the city because of falling snow, sleet, freezing rain or on the basis of a
forecast by the U.S. weather bureau that weather conditions would create or
will likely create a hazardous road condition impeding or likely to impede the
free movement of fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular traffic or
otherwise endanger the safety and welfare of the community, such official shall
put into effect a parking prohibition on snow emergency routes and in the snow
removal district as established by this section by declaring in the manner
prescribed in section
5-2-6-2 of this chapter that a snow emergency exists. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-6-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY TO THE PUBLIC:
   A.   Authority To Declare Emergency: The city manager, or other official
authorized by this section, shall cause each declaration made pursuant to this
section to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts or telecasts from
stations with a normal operating range covering the city, social/electronic
media and alerts, and other means when feasible. Each announcement shall
describe the action taken by the city manager or other official authorized by
this section, including the time it became or will become effective, and shall
specify the streets or areas affected. A parking prohibition declared by the
city manager, or other official authorized by this section, shall specify
whether it is applicable to primary snow emergency routes, primary and
secondary snow emergency routes, and/or snow removal district(s), and shall not
go into effect until at least three (3) hours after it has been announced at
least three (3) times between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:
00) P.M. on any day for snow emergency routes. For snow removal district(s),
the above described announcements shall occur the day preceding normal no
parking restricted streets and avenues in the district. The announcement shall
advise the public that violators are subject to towing/impoundment for street
cleaning. (Ord. 2013-10, 6-24-2013)
   B.   Records Maintained: The city manager, or other official authorized by
this section, shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and date
when any declaration is announced to the public in accordance with this
section; said records to be kept for a period of sixty (60) days.
   C.   Termination Of Parking Prohibition: Whenever the city manager, or other
official authorized by this section, shall find that some or all of the
conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to this
section no longer exist, the city manager or other authorized official may
declare the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, in the manner
prescribed by this section, effective immediately upon announcement.
   D.   Provisions Temporarily Effective To Take Precedence: Any provision of
this section which becomes effective by declaration of the city manager, or
other official authorized by this section, or upon the occurrence of certain
weather conditions shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence over
other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except that it shall
not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents,
emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles or emergency traffic
directions by a police officer. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-6-3: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking On Primary Snow Emergency Routes:
      1.   A parking prohibition shall go into effect on primary snow emergency
routes as necessary by declaring it in a manner prescribed by this section.
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A1 of this section, a
parking prohibition shall automatically go into effect on any part of any
primary snow emergency route on which there has been an accumulation of snow
and ice of four inches (4") or more for one hour or more between six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. of any day.
      3.   Once in effect, a prohibition under this subsection A shall remain
in effect until terminated by announcement of the city manager or other
authorized official in accordance with this section, except that any street
area which has become substantially clear of snow and ice from curb to curb for
the length of the entire block shall be automatically excluded therefrom. While
the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked
any vehicle on any portion of a primary snow emergency route to which it
applies. However, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to permit
parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of
law. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
   B.   Parking On Secondary Snow Emergency Routes:
      1.   As prescribed in section
5-2-6-1 of this chapter, if in the opinion of the city manager or other
authorized official that an emergency condition exists, the city manager or
other authorized official may put into effect a parking prohibition on
secondary snow emergency routes as necessary by declaring it in a manner
prescribed by this section. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-14-2013)
      2.   Once in effect, a prohibition under this subsection B shall remain
in effect until terminated by announcement of the city manager in accordance
with this section, except that any street area which has become substantially
clear of snow and ice from curb to curb for the length of the entire block
shall be automatically excluded therefrom. While the prohibition is in effect,
no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a
secondary snow emergency route to which it applies. However, nothing in this
subsection B shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it
is forbidden by any other provision of law.
      3.   While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow to
remain parked any vehicle on any secondary snow emergency route during the time
from one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. of any day.
   C.   Snow Removal District; Parking Regulations:
      1.   This area may require the city manager, or designee, to impose
temporary parking restrictions to allow street plows to clean from curb to curb
to maintain safe and efficient passage of emergency vehicles and local traffic.
      2.   The prohibition shall go into effect in the manner prescribed in
section
5-2-6-2 of this chapter.
      3.   During a declared snow removal emergency for the district, vehicles
parked in posted no parking zones/snow removal districts are subject to towing
and impoundment at the owner's expense. (Ord. 2013-10, 6-24-2013)
5-2-6-4: STALLED VEHICLE ON PRIMARY SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE:
Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in violation
of this section, on any part of a primary snow emergency route on which there
is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking prohibition
in effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take immediate action to
have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such primary snow emergency
route, either into the first cross street which is not a primary or secondary
snow emergency route or onto the public space portion of a nearby driveway. No
persons shall abandon or leave their vehicle in the roadway of a primary snow
emergency route (regardless of whether they indicate, by raising the hood or
otherwise, that the vehicle is stalled), except for the temporary purpose of
securing assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby
telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station or other place of assistance
and return without delay. Any persons leaving a vehicle to secure such
assistance shall first turn on their warning lights and raise the hood on their
vehicle. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-6-5: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES DESIGNATED:
   A.   The streets or portions of streets within the city that are designated
as primary and secondary snow emergency routes shall be found by going to the
city website map of emergency routes http://www.cityofmoorhead.com/Uploads/
Maps/Snow_Routes.pdf. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-6-6: SIGNS TO MARK SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES AND SNOW REMOVAL DISTRICTS:
On each street designated by this chapter as a primary snow emergency route,
such streets shall be posted with special signs at intervals not exceeding
three hundred feet (300') with the wording "Snow Emergency Route".
On each street designated as a secondary snow emergency route, such streets
shall be posted with special signs at intervals not exceeding three hundred
feet (300') with the wording "Secondary Snow Emergency Route".
On streets or avenues designated by the city council as within a snow removal
district, such streets shall be posted with signs designating the snow removal
district at intervals not exceeding three hundred feet (300').
Signs posted in accordance with this section shall be distinctive and uniform
in appearance and shall be plainly visible and readable to persons traveling on
the street or highway. (Ord. 2012-12, 8-13-2012)
5-2-6-7: VIOLATIONS; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Impound Vehicle, Fees:
      1.   Any vehicle stopped on any primary or secondary snow emergency route
when an emergency declaration has been issued in violation of any of the
provisions of this section
5-2-6 may be impounded, and no person shall recover any vehicle removed
pursuant to this section without first paying the cost of removal and the cost
of storage. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-14-2013)
      2.   Any vehicle stopped or parked within a designated snow removal
district contrary to the posted regular street maintenance parking regulation
when a snow removal declaration is issued may be impounded, and no person shall
recover any vehicle removed pursuant to this section without first paying the
cost of removal and the cost of storage. (Ord. 2014-17, 9-8-2014)
5-2-7: PARKING REGULATIONS OTHER THAN DURING A DECLARED SNOW EMERGENCY:
5-2-7-1: DECLARATION OF SNOW REMOVAL STATUS:
Whenever in the opinion of the city manager or, in the absence of the city
manager, the assistant city manager, or their designee in the event both the
city manager and assistant city manager are absent, streets and roadways in the
city have accumulated sufficient snow which creates or will likely create
hazardous road conditions impeding or likely to impede the free movement of
fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular traffic or otherwise
endanger the safety and welfare of the community, such official shall put into
effect parking prohibitions and regulations on all streets and avenues within
the city as established by this section by declaring that snow removal
regulations shall become effective. (Ord. 665, 12-18-1978)
Notwithstanding provisions of this section to the contrary, in the event of a
snow emergency declaration pursuant to section
5-2-6 of this chapter, all provisions of said section
5-2-6 of this chapter shall apply and shall supersede the provisions of this
section
5-2-7. (Ord. 740, 5-18-1981)
5-2-7-2: PARKING SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED:
Parking shall be prohibited on streets, avenues and roadways within the city
for purposes of permitting snow removal, street sweeping, and other road
maintenance activities according to a schedule adopted by resolution of the
city council. Such resolution shall include areas covered, days covered, and
times covered. (Ord. 98-2, 3-16-1998)
5-2-7-3: RESIDENTIAL PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Permits may be issued to registered residents that live on streets,
avenues, and roadways in three (3) hour parking zones exempting one vehicle
from three (3) hour parking limits as follows:
      1.   Permit must be in full view as prescribed in application process for
parking enforcement officers to examine and validate when parked on the street.
      2.   Permits are valid for one year in correlation to the parking
calendar schedule.
      3.   Permit is only valid within zone designated by registered address.
      4.   Possession or use of duplicated or unofficially fabricated permits
is a violation of this section. (Ord. 2013-12, 8-12-2013)
5-2-8: VOLUNTEERS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE PARKING TICKETS:
   A.   In regard to parking tickets for violations of state law relating to
physically disabled parking requirements contained in Minnesota Statutes
Annotated section 169.346, and related sections, the city authorizes citizen
volunteers to issue citations to violators.
   B.   Citizen volunteers must first complete a training program in the
requirements of the law and be authorized by the police chief to issue
citations. The police department shall establish a training program and
establish other criteria for such volunteers.
   C.   Qualified and authorized volunteers may issue citations by placing
parking tickets on any vehicle violating state law relating to physically
disabled parking requirements in the same manner that licensed police officers
may do so in the city. (Ord. 98-16, 1-4-1999)
5-2-9: PARKING TICKETS:
Any parking ticket that is issued against any vehicle by reason of violating
parking regulations shall be prima facie evidence that the owner of the vehicle
committed the violation described and set forth in the parking ticket. (Ord.
174; amd. Ord. 232; 1967 Code §61.21)
5-2-10: PENALTIES AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be charged with
an administrative offense pursuant to section
1-4-5 of this code, or alternatively, a criminal offense if a violation is
committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property. If charged with a criminal offense and
convicted, the person shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of
section
1-4-2 of this code. The determination as to whether to treat a violation as an
administrative offense or as a criminal offense shall be up to the discretion
of the authority issuing the citation. Any vehicle parked in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter may be impounded, and no person shall recover
any vehicle impounded pursuant to this section without first paying the impound
fees and charges as established by the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2015-19, 10-
12-2015)
5-2-11: PROHIBITION ON PARKING IN FRONT AND SIDE YARDS:
No person shall park in a front or side yard in a residential zoning district
except on a paved surface and in accordance with the zoning regulations of the
city of Moorhead contained in title 10 of this code. (Ord. 2000-3, 4-3-2000)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Sale Of Bicycles Or Bicycle Parts Reported
5-3-2: Unlawful To Destroy ID Numbers Or Tags
5-3-3: Bicycle Operation
5-3-4: Bicycle Lights
5-3-5: Penalty
5-3-1: SALE OF BICYCLES OR BICYCLE PARTS REPORTED:
All persons engaged in the business of buying secondhand bicycles or major
parts of bicycles, including, by way of example but not limitation, frames,
wheels or gear mechanisms, shall maintain records, giving the name and address
of the person from whom each bicycle or major part thereof was purchased,
description of each bicycle or major part thereof purchased, the frame number
thereof and the number of the license found thereon, if any. All persons
engaged in the business of selling new or secondhand bicycles or major parts
thereof shall maintain records, giving a list of sales made by such dealers,
which list shall include the name and address of each person to whom sold, the
kind of bicycle or major parts thereof sold, together with a description and
frame number thereof, and the number of the license attached thereto, if any.
(Ord. 189; amd. Ord. 412, 7-10-1967)
5-3-2: UNLAWFUL TO DESTROY ID NUMBERS OR TAGS:
No person shall wilfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the
number of any bicycle frame licensed pursuant to this chapter. No person shall
remove, destroy, mutilate or alter any license plate or registration card
during any time in which such license plate, seal or registration card is
operative. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the police department from
stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial number can be
found, or on which said number is illegible or insufficient for identification
purposes. (Ord. 189; amd. Ord. 412, 7-10-1967)
5-3-3: BICYCLE OPERATION:
   A.   Passengers: No operator of a bicycle upon the public streets, sidewalks
or boulevards shall carry any person upon the handlebars or frame of any such
vehicle and no person shall so ride thereon. This restriction shall not apply
to operators of a bicycle with children in safety restraint seats.
   B.   Hitching: No persons riding upon any bicycle, sled, roller skates or
any similar vehicle shall attach the same or themselves to any moving vehicle
upon any street or highway.
   C.   Passing Pedestrians: Every person riding a bicycle on any sidewalk
shall, upon meeting or overtaking pedestrians either get off the sidewalk or
dismount and walk past the pedestrians.
   D.   Riding Abreast: Bicycle riders shall not ride more than two (2) abreast
and shall ride in single file when meeting vehicles or passing vehicles on a
side.
   E.   Obey Traffic Regulations: All operators of bicycles shall observe the
same traffic regulations that are imposed upon motor vehicles using the city
streets; including namely, to give proper traffic signals before making a turn
or stopping, obeying all traffic signals and warnings, stopping at stop signs,
making proper use of a bell, horn, siren or similar warning signal. The
operator of a bicycle shall keep in the traffic line on the right half thereof
and when proceeding in the opposite direction to any traffic shall pass to the
right, each giving to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled
portion of the street as nearly as possible, and when making a turn shall give
the proper signal by extending an arm. (Ord. 412, 7-10-1967)
5-3-4: BICYCLE LIGHTS:
Every bicycle upon streets, sidewalks or boulevards during a period from one-
half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise and at other
times when there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible any
person upon such streets, sidewalks or boulevards, at a distance of at least
two hundred feet (200') ahead, shall be equipped with a lighted lamp on the
front visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance five hundred
feet (500') in front of the bicycle and shall be equipped with a reflex mirror
or lamp on the rear exhibiting a yellow or red light visible under like
conditions from a distance of at least one hundred feet to six hundred feet
(100' - 600') to the rear of such bicycle. No person may operate a bicycle at
any time when there is not sufficient light to render persons and vehicles on
the highway clearly discernible at a distance of five hundred feet (500') ahead
unless the bicycle or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that
shall be visible during the above set hours of darkness from six hundred feet
(600') when viewed in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle. (Ord. 412, 7-10-1967)
5-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Snowmobiles
5-4-2: All-Terrain And Recreational Vehicles
5-4-1: SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Definitions:
    ARTERIAL SNOWMOBILE ROUTE: A route which allows for the operation of a
snowmobile from a place of storage to a designated trail system or area outside
the city limits.
   OPERATE: To ride on, or be in control of the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: A person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER: A person other than the lienholder having a property interest in, or
title to the snowmobile and who is entitled to the use or possession of the
snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled track driven vehicle designed for travel on
snow or ice steered by skis or runners.
   B.   Equipment:
      1.   No person shall operate a snowmobile any place within the limits of
the city unless it is equipped as follows:
         a.   Front and rear lights as required by state statute will be in
operation whenever a snowmobile is operated on public property.
         b.   Standard muffler(s) shall be properly attached and in proper
working order. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipe, or
similar device on a snowmobile motor.
         c.   Is equipped with brakes which provide adequate control to the
movement of and to stop and hold the snowmobile under any condition of
operation.
         d.   Must be currently registered through the Minnesota department of
natural resources.
         e.   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city without wearing
a helmet meeting the specifications set forth in section 74600.0300 of
Minnesota rules.
   C.   Areas Of Operation:
      1.   No snowmobile may be operated on:
         a.   Public sidewalks or along any public sidewalk or make a crossing
of a public sidewalk except such places where a driveway or a crossing has been
provided by law.
         b.   City streets or alleys.
         c.   Boulevards within public right of way.
         d.   Private property of another without the express permission of the
landowner.
         e.   Any trails, walk paths, or bike paths.
         f.   Within a city park.
         g.   All school property.
         h.   Within ponding basins.
         i.   Any temporary or permanent flood control structure.
         j.   All city property unless specified otherwise in this chapter.
         k.   Within fifty feet (50') of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating
rink, sliding area, or area where the operation would conflict with use or
endanger persons or property.
      2.   Snowmobiles may be operated in the following areas:
         a.   In the ditches of state highways and county roads in the manner
allowed by state law.
         b.   On private property with the express permission of the owner.
         c.   On city of Moorhead property under a designated activity
sponsored by the responsible city department.
         d.   On designated snowmobile trail access and service areas as
designated by state and county snowmobile routes.
         e.   Red River is permitted but not recommended.
         f.   On city of Moorhead designated arterial pathways approved by the
Moorhead city council.
         g.   On a public street directly adjacent to a point of storage for
the specific purpose of loading and unloading from a trailer.
   D.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   Anyone operating a snowmobile within the city shall adhere to the
following:
         a.   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., with the exception of
state of Minnesota designated trails.
         b.   No person shall operate a snowmobile in a manner as to create a
loud or unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs, annoys, or interferes with
the peace and quiet of others.
         c.   No snowmobile shall be operated in excess of twenty (20) miles
per hour on approved public property or roadways, or at a speed greater than
reasonable or proper under surrounding conditions.
         d.   No person under the age of fourteen (14) shall operate a
snowmobile on public property in the city.
         e.   No person between the ages of fourteen (14) and eighteen (18)
shall operate a snowmobile in the city on public property without a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued by the commissioner of conservation of the
state of Minnesota in their possession.
         f.   Every person operating a snowmobile on a street shall come to a
complete stop before entering any intersection or crossing any roadway, and
shall yield right of way to all oncoming traffic which constitutes an immediate
hazard.
         g.   No person shall operate a snowmobile at any place in a careless,
reckless, or negligent manner or heedlessly in disregard for the rights and
safety of others or in a manner as to endanger, or likely to endanger, or cause
injury or damage to any person or property.
         h.   No person operating a snowmobile shall tow any person or thing on
a public roadway except through the use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear
of the snowmobile.
         i.   Snowmobiles will operate in a single file when traveling in
groups of two (2) or more.
         j.   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner or in lawful
control of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be operated contrary to the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Exemptions:
      1.   Emergency Operation: Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this
chapter, a snowmobile may be operated contrary to regulations prescribed in
this section only in a police designated emergency or by any recognized
government employees involved in performing essential services for the city, or
by any on duty law enforcement officers in accordance with the performance of
their duties.
      2.   Arterial Snowmobile Routes: The city council by resolution may
dedicate arterial snowmobile routes which allow operation of snowmobiles from a
place of storage to a designated trailhead or area outside the city limits.
   F.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2014-21, 10-27-2014)
5-4-2: ALL-TERRAIN AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: A class 1 all-terrain vehicle and class 2 all-terrain
vehicle as defined by Minnesota statutes 84.92(8).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any motorized bicycle, moped or motorcycle, motor
vehicle licensed for highway operation but used for off road recreational
purposes.
   B.   Equipment:
      1.   No person shall operate an all-terrain or recreational vehicle any
place within the limits of the city unless it is equipped as follows:
         a.   With headlights and taillights lighted at all times.
         b.   With a functioning stoplight.
         c.   With standard mufflers which are properly attached and which
reduce the noise operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation.
No person shall use a cut-out, by-pass, straight pipe, or similar device on an
all-terrain or recreational vehicle.
         d.   Each vehicle shall be equipped with a working spark arrestor.
         e.   Each vehicle shall meet noise emission standards of the United
States environmental protection agency, and in no case shall the noise from the
vehicle exceed eighty two (82) decibels of sound pressure at fifty feet (50')
on the A scale as measured by Society Of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards,
and under no circumstance may an owner or operator modify the exhaust system in
such a manner as to cause noise emitted from the vehicle to exceed these
emission standards.
         f.   The vehicle shall be equipped with a rear-view mirror to provide
the driver with adequate vision from behind as required by Minnesota statutes
169.70, as it may be amended from time to time.
         g.   The number of occupants in the vehicle may not exceed the design
occupant load.
   C.   Operation:
      1.   No person shall operate any vehicle or machine on public land under
the jurisdiction of the city of Moorhead except in compliance with Minnesota
statutes 84.92 to 84.929, or its successor, and rules referred therein.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any all-
terrain vehicle, or recreational vehicle on public lands within the city, or on
private lands within the city without the express permission of the owner or
occupant of said private lands. No person shall operate any all-terrain or
recreational vehicle on any designated bikeway or pedestrian walkway within the
city limits except when crossing said areas by the most direct means
practicable.
      3.   A person may operate a class 1 all-terrain vehicle designed by the
manufacturer for off road use to be driven by a steering wheel and equipped
with operator and passenger seatbelts and a roll-over protective structure on
streets, roadways, or alleys that are used for other motor vehicle travel and
that are under the jurisdiction of the city. Class 1 all terrain vehicles that
do not meet these specifications may not be operated on any streets, roadways,
or alleys that are used for other public motor vehicle travel and that are
under the jurisdiction of the city.
      4.   No person shall operate any all-terrain vehicle or recreational
vehicle without the use of a windshield or eyewear.
      5.   All occupants are required to use seatbelts when riding in any all-
terrain vehicle or recreational vehicle when seatbelts are provided by the
manufacturer.
      6.   If the all-terrain vehicle or recreational vehicle is not equipped
with turn signals all operators are required to use hand signals to indicate
turning or stopping intentions.
   D.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   Anyone operating an all-terrain or recreational vehicle within the
city shall adhere to the following:
         a.   Except on city streets, no all-terrain or recreational vehicle
shall be operated in the city between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
         b.   No person shall operate an all-terrain or recreational vehicle in
a manner as to create a loud or unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs,
annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of others.
         c.   No all-terrain or recreational vehicle shall be operated at a
rate of speed greater than the posted speed limit or speed limit set by city
ordinance or Minnesota statutes, and in no event greater than reasonable or
proper under all surrounding circumstances.
         d.   Any operator under the age of eighteen (18) shall comply with all
state laws regulating underage operators, including those set forth in
Minnesota statutes chapter 84, as well as any rules and regulations promulgated
by the commissioner of conservation in regard to underage operators, as such
laws, rules, and regulations may from time to time be amended.
         e.   No person shall operate an all-terrain or recreational vehicle at
any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner or heedlessly in
disregard for the rights and safety of others or in a manner as to endanger, or
likely to endanger, or cause injury or damage to any person or property.
         f.   It is unlawful for any person who is the owner or in lawful
control of an all-terrain or recreational vehicle to permit the vehicle to be
operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Exemptions:
      1.   All-terrain and recreational vehicles may be operated on public
lands under the jurisdiction of the city and approved by the council
specifically designated by the parks and recreation advisory board for the
operation of such vehicles.
      2.   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, an all- terrain
vehicle may be operated contrary to regulations prescribed in this section in a
police designated emergency or by any recognized government employees involved
in performing essential services for the city, by any on duty law enforcement
officers in accordance with the performance of their duties, or by construction
or maintenance authorized by the city.
      3.   A class 2 all-terrain vehicle may be operated upon roadways in
accordance with Minnesota statutes 84.92 to 84.928.
      4.   An all-terrain vehicle may be used to move snow from a driveway,
parking lot, sidewalk, or boulevard.
   F.   Permits:
      1.   All-terrain vehicles or recreational vehicles may be operated upon
designated city roadways as long as the operator has obtained a permit from the
city containing, at a minimum, the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant;
         b.   Model, make, year, and vehicle identification number of the
permitted vehicle;
         c.   Proof of insurance;
         d.   Current driver's license information; and
         e.   Other information as the city may require.
      2.   The permit application is available from the city police department
and must be completed and submitted to the police department along with an
application fee, which fee is to be established by resolution of the council,
amended from time to time.
      3.   The permit application will be reviewed by the city police chief, or
his/her designated representative, and a permit shall be issued by the city
police chief, or his/her designated representative, as long as the application
is complete and satisfactory to the city police chief, or his/her designated
representative, the permit fee is paid, and other conditions of this section
are satisfied. The city police chief, or his/her designated representative, has
the authority and discretion to deny a permit application if these conditions
are not satisfied.
      4.   The applicant must demonstrate evidence of insurance complying with
the provision of Minnesota statutes 65B.48, subd. 5.
      5.   The permit may be granted for a period not to exceed two (2) three
(3) years and be renewed upon expiration to coincide with the required State of
Minnesota permit. The fee will be prorated by year in order to align the city
permit with the state permit for future renewals.
      6.   Permits are effective from January 1 through December 31 of the
second year.
      7.   Applicants must be age sixteen (16) or greater holding a valid
driver's license recognized by the State of Minnesota, and where necessary, a
Department of Natural Resource's certification permitting operation of all-
terrain vehicles or recreational vehicles; the permit to be issued under this
section is only valid during the time and under the circumstances that the
applicant's driver's license allows operation of a motor vehicle in the State
of Minnesota.
      8.   The permit may be suspended or revoked at any time if there is
evidence that the permit holder violated any provisions of this ordinance or
state law, or cannot safely or legally operate, or has not safely or legally
operated, the all-terrain vehicle or recreational vehicle within the city or if
the applicant's driver's license is no longer recognized as valid in the State
of Minnesota. An applicant may appeal any such suspension, revocation, or
denial to the council by filing notice of appeal with the city clerk no later
than fourteen (14) days after the date of notice of the action to be appealed.
   G.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 2014-21, 10-27-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-16, 10-25-2021)
CHAPTER 5
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES AND IN-LINE SKATES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Prohibited Acts
5-5-3: Regulation of Use
5-5-4: Wheelchairs and Related Devices
5-5-5: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and application of
this Chapter, and the following words and terms wherever they occur in this
Chapter are defined as follows:
ROLLER SKATES/ROLLER BLADES/IN-LINE SKATES: A nonmotorized device with wheels
which is attached to a shoe or designed to be attached to a shoe.
SKATEBOARD: A nonmotorized platform mounted on wheels which is designed to
transport a rider. (Ord. 92-13, 7-20-92)
5-5-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or propel oneself upon a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or in-line skates in any of the
following circumstances:
   A.    On any public or private parking ramp without the express written
permission of the owner.
   B.   On private property without permission of the owner.
   C.    In any area within the city while being pushed, pulled or in any way
propelled by any motorized vehicle or by a person on a bicycle. (Ord. 92-13, 7-
20-92; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
5-5-3: REGULATION OF USE:
The following rules of operation shall be observed at all times by any person
riding or propelling oneself upon a skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or
in-line skates within the City:
   A.   If upon a public roadway, the rider shall be as near to the right side
of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle.
   B.   Riders of such equipment shall not be more than two (2) abreast and
shall ride in single file when meeting vehicles or passing standing vehicles on
the side of the street.
   C.   Any person riding such a piece of equipment on a public street shall
observe the same traffic regulations that are imposed upon motor vehicles using
the City's streets, except as to those regulations which by their nature are
inapplicable to riders of skateboards, roller skates, roller blades and in-line
skates. (Ord. 92-13, 7-20-92)
5-5-4: WHEELCHAIRS AND RELATED DEVICES:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of a wheelchair
or any other wheeled device designed to assist a disabled person anywhere
within the City. (Ord. 92-13, 7-20-92)
5-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction, be
penalized in accordance with the provisions of Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 92-13, 7-20-92)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES, ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Scope
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Riding Restrictions
5-6-4: Parking
5-6-5: Establishment Of Bicycle Lanes And Paths
5-6-6: Operation Of Bicycles, Electric-Assist Bicycles And Motorized Foot
Scooters On Bicycle Lanes And Paths
5-6-1: SCOPE:
State laws and the provisions of this chapter will govern the operation of
bicycles, electric-assisted bicycles and motorized foot scooters upon any
street, roadway, sidewalk, trail or public path. (Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meaning respectively ascribed to by this section:
BICYCLE: A bicycle shall have the same definition as provided in Minn. Stat.
Section 169.011 Subd. 4, as amended
BICYCLE LANE: A bicycle lane shall have the same definition as provided in
Minn. Stat. Section 169.011 Subd. 5, as amended.
BICYCLE PATH: A bicycle path shall have the same definition as provided in
Minn. Stat. Section 169.011 Subd. 6, as amended.
ELECTRIC-ASSISTED BICYCLE: Shall have the same definition as provided in Minn.
Stat. Section 169.011 Subd. 27, as amended.
MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTER: Motorized foot scooter shall have the same definition
as provided in Minn. Stat. Section 169.011 Subd. 46, as amended. (Ord. 2024-05,
6-24-2024)
5-6-3: RIDING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    No person shall ride a motorized foot scooter on any sidewalk, except
when necessary to enter or leave adjacent property.
   B.    No person shall ride a bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle or motorized
foot scooter on any street, sidewalk, roadway, public path or public property
where signs have been erected prohibiting bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle or
motorized foot scooter riding.
   C.    No person shall operate a bicycle, electric-assist bicycle, motorized
foot scooter or wheeled recreational device at a speed greater than fifteen
(15) miles per hour on any multi-use trail within the city.
   D.    Except as prohibited by this section or state law, a person may ride a
bicycle, electric assisted bicycle, or motorized foot scooter on any street,
sidewalk, roadway, public path, or trail. (Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
5-6-4: PARKING:
   A.    No person shall park a bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle or motorized
foot scooter upon a street, highway or alley other than at the edge of the
developed portion of such street, highway or alley; and
   B.    No person shall park a bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle, or
motorized foot scooter on a sidewalk other than in a bicycle rack or as near to
the edge of the sidewalk as practicable so as to create the least possible
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
5-6-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF BICYCLE LANES AND PATHS:
The council may, by resolution, establish bicycle lanes or bicycle paths in the
city. Bicycle lanes shall be distinguished from the portion of the roadway to
be used by motor vehicles by appropriate paint striping or other pavement
markings, barriers or indicators and may, in addition, be designated by
appropriate signing. Bicycle paths shall be designated by either appropriate
signing or paint striping or other pavement markings or indicators. (Ord. 2024-
05, 6-24-2024)
5-6-6: OPERATION OF BICYCLES, ELECTRIC-ASSIST BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED FOOT
SCOOTERS ON BICYCLE LANES AND PATHS:
   A.    Where a combination bicycle-pedestrian path has been established,
people riding bicycles, electric-assist bicycles and motorized foot scooters
shall yield to the right-of-way to pedestrians;
   B.    When a person is operating a bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle or
motorized foot scooter within a bicycle lane he may overtake and pass motor
vehicles operating on the traffic lane to the person's left; and
   C.    Whenever a bicycle lane or bicycle path is designated as one way only,
no person shall operate a bicycle, electric-assisted bicycle or motorized foot
scooter within such lane or path in other than the designated direction. (Ord.
2024-05, 6-24-2024)
TITLE 6
PARKS
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC PARKS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Park Property
6-1-3: Park Hours
6-1-4: Park Rules And Regulations
6-1-5: Penalties
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle, including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, dune buggies, minibikes, motorcycles, trail bikes, go-
carts and all-terrain vehicles.
PARK: Any recreational area under the jurisdiction and control of the city.
(Ord. 618, 10-3-1977)
6-1-2: PARK PROPERTY:
   A.   Acquisition: The city may acquire by purchase, gift or eminent domain
any land suitable for park or recreational purposes, to improve same for such
use and to appropriate and expend such sums each year for said purpose out of
any monies in the park fund as the council shall direct; provided that the tax
levy for the purpose shall be subject to all legal tax limitations and
restrictions.
   B.   Bonds: Whenever the council shall deem it advisable to acquire, improve
or equip one or more tracts of land for such use, it may issue and sell bonds
to defray the cost and shall, by resolution, determine the amount of same, the
form of the bonds, when payable, the denominations of same, the dates of the
maturity and the rate of interest thereon, and the full faith and credit of the
city shall be and is hereby pledged to the payment of the principal and
interest of such bonds at their maturity, and the council shall, each year,
include in the tax levy a sufficient amount for the payment of interest as it
accrues and the accumulation of a sinking fund for the redemption of the bonds
at their maturity.
   C.   Proceeds Of Bond Sales: The proceeds of any and all bonds issued and
sold under authority of this section shall be used only for the purpose
enumerated in this section. (Ord. 144; amd. 1967 Code §22.01)
6-1-3: PARK HOURS:
The council will, by resolution, establish the hours of operation of city parks
and will post the hours of use at the entrance to said parks in a conspicuous
area. In the absence of such regulation, city parks will be open from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 618, 10-3-1977; amd. Ord.
2024-05, 6-24-2024)
6-1-4: PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Intoxicating Liquors: It is unlawful for any person to consume or
possess intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquors within the city park
system:
      1.   Except that the consumption of intoxicating liquors and 3.2 percent
malt liquors shall be allowed for persons using the municipal golf course
within the city.
      2.   Except that 3.2 percent malt liquor may be sold at the Centennial
Softball Complex and Matson Athletic Complex pursuant to a temporary 3.2
percent malt liquor license or other license authorized by state law, issued by
the city council. The location for the sale and consumption of 3.2 percent malt
liquor, the dates permitted, times permitted, and other restrictions shall be
set forth in the permit granted by the city council.
      3.   Intoxicating and 3.2 percent malt liquor may be possessed and
consumed in Riverfront Park, Memorial Park, Viking Ship Park, and M.B. Johnson
Park in the city, but only pursuant to a special permit issued by the city
council, which permit shall set forth the date, time and other restrictions as
deemed applicable by the city council. 3.2 percent malt liquor may be sold in
those four (4) parks, but only pursuant to a license or permit issued by the
city council, which license or permit shall set forth the date, time and other
restrictions deemed applicable by the city council. (Ord. 2011-16, 11-14-2011)
   B.   Firearms And Weapons: It is unlawful for persons to:
      1.   Display or have in their possession a firearm or air gun within a
city park.
      2.   Have in their possession explosives of any kind in a city park.
      3.   Use, display or possess any other type of weapon, including, but not
limited to, slingshots, switchblade knives, bow and arrows and traps.
   C.   Environmental Protection: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Destroy or injure any land, buildings or other property of the city
within a city park.
      2.   Injure or molest any wildlife within a city park.
      3.   Dispose of, litter or otherwise discard garbage, refuse, sewage or
trash of any kind except within receptacles provided for that purpose within
said parks.
   D.   Fires And Refuse: Fires are permitted within city parks only in
constructed fireplaces or in designated fire rings as provided for that
purpose. (Ord. 618, 10-3-1977)
   E.   Pets: Leashed pets are permitted in all city parks with the exception
of Matson, and Centennial athletic complexes. Leashed pets are permitted at
Southside Regional Park on the walking paths and areas not designated as
athletic fields. Leashed pets, other than service animals, are not allowed on
any athletic field at Southside Regional Park, including the Miracle Field.
In addition, no person shall allow any dog, cat or other pet animal to enter
any building or shelter, unless under emergency circumstances, or permit any
dog, cat or other such pet to be unrestrained. Dogs may be allowed to be off a
leash, unrestrained, if in a city park designated specifically as a "dog park"
with the following restrictions:
      1.   Dog owners assume all risk when using the park. Dog owners are
liable for the actions of their dogs;
      2.   Dogs should have a collar, carry ID tags, be properly licensed,
inoculated and in healthy condition;
      3.   Dogs shall be in the sight of their owners or handlers at all times;
      4.   No children under twelve (12) years of age are permitted in the
fenced area. Children must be strictly supervised at all times;
      5.   Owners shall clean up after their dogs and repair any holes left by
their dogs on park property;
      6.   Dogs shall be leashed before entering and prior to leaving the dog
park;
      7.   Dogs shall be removed from the park at the first sign of aggressive
behavior;
      8.   Each owner or handler shall be limited to a total of three (3) dogs
per visit;
      9.   Smoking and eating is prohibited in the dog park;
      10.   Female dogs in heat, puppies less than four (4) months of age, and
dogs with known aggressive behaviors are strictly prohibited from the park;
      11.   Violators will be subject to removal from the park and suspension
of park privileges.
      12.   No dogs officially designated as dangerous or potentially dangerous
as outlined in Title
3-7-13 are allowed in the dog park.
      13.   Dogs left unattended are subject to impound. (Ord. 2011-12, 8-22-
2011; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 6-24-2024)
   F.   Motor Vehicle Travel: It is unlawful to:
      1.   Operate any motor vehicle within a city park except on designated
roads or parking areas.
      2.   Operate any motor vehicle at a speed in excess of ten (10) miles per
hour within any city park.
      3.   Park a motor vehicle in other than a designated area for parking.
   G.   Soliciting Or Advertising: It is unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Engage in or solicit business of any kind whatsoever from park users
within a city park without written permission from the city.
      2.   Advertise in any manner any private activity or function proposed to
take place in a city park without the prior consent of the city.
   H.   Personal Behavior: No persons shall conduct themselves in any manner
within a city park in violation of other city ordinances or state statutes, or
in any manner which tends to create or does create a breach of the peace, or
tends to disturb or annoy the recreational enjoyment of city parks by other
park users. (Ord. 618, 10-3-1977)
6-1-5: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. Further, any person who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to an immediate removal from said city parks.
(Ord. 618, 10-3-1977)
CHAPTER 2
TREES, SHRUBS AND VEGETATION
ARTICLE A. PLANTING, REMOVAL AND MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Purpose
6-2A-2: Definitions
6-2A-3: Master Street Tree Plan
6-2A-4: Planting, Care and Removal of Public Trees and Shrubs
6-2A-5: General Tree and Shrub Regulations
6-2A-6: Tree Contractor's License
6-2A-7: Penalties
6-2A-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to regulate and control the
planting, transplanting, treatment, removal, maintenance and protection of
trees and shrubs in the City in order to control Dutch Elm disease; to
eliminate and guard against dangerous conditions which may result in injury to
persons using the streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public property of the
City; to promote and enhance the beauty and general welfare of the City; to
prevent damage to any public utility, street, sidewalk or other public
property; to protect trees and shrubs located in public areas from undesirable
and unsafe planting, removal, treatment and maintenance practices; and to guard
all trees and shrubs within the City against the spread of disease or pests. It
is the intent of the Council that the provisions of this Article shall apply to
all trees, shrubs or plants growing or hereafter planted in or upon any public
right of way or other premises owned or controlled by the City, and also to all
trees or shrubs growing or to be planted in or upon any private premises which
shall threaten the lives, health, safety or welfare of the public or of the
property owned or controlled by the City.
6-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Article, they shall be
construed to have the following meanings:
PERSON: Any person, firm, association or corporation.
PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS: All trees or shrubs located or to be planted on any
park, playground or other property owned or controlled by the City or on any
public street, alley, sidewalk or highway within the public right of way.
6-2A-3: MASTER STREET TREE PLAN:
The City may develop a master plan showing the location, spacing, varieties and
species of all public trees and shrubs growing or to be planted in the public
right of way within the City. No person may hereafter plant, transplant or move
any public tree or shrub on any street or alley of the City except to the
location and spacing shown in said plan and unless it is of the species or
variety therein designated. The City may waive the requirements of this Section
in cases of extreme hardship where such waiver is in the public interest or
necessitated by the physical characteristics of the tree or shrub.
6-2A-4: PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, except the Public Service Department or
upon order of the City, shall plant, transplant, treat, alter or do surgery on
any public tree or shrub within the City, or cause such acts to be done by
others, without first obtaining a written permit for such work from the City as
herein provided.
   B.   Exemptions: No owners or tenants shall be required to have a permit to
cultivate, fertilize or water public trees or shrubs adjoining their property.
The Moorhead Public Service Department shall not be required to obtain a permit
for purposes of line- clearing activities. The City may authorize any person to
do any work or act described in subsection A of this Section without written
permit whenever it determines that such work or act will not be detrimental to
the public interest and will be in accord with the spirit and other
requirements of this Article.
   C.   Requirements and Conditions of Permit: If the Council determines that
the proposed work or planting described in an application for permit is
necessary and in accord with the purposes of this Article and the master street
tree plan, taking into account the safety, health and welfare of the public,
location of utilities, public sidewalks, driveways and street lights, general
character of the area in which the tree or shrub is located or proposed to be
located, type of soil characteristics and physiological needs of the species or
variety of tree or shrub, a permit may be issued by the City to the applicant.
As a condition of issuing any permit to remove a public tree or shrub, the
permittee may be required to plant one or more trees or shrubs in place of the
one removed, and no permittee under such a conditional permit may fail, refuse
or neglect to plant trees or shrubs of the type, size and in the location
specified in the permit.
   D.   Permits to Public Utilities: Whenever a permit is issued under this
Section to a public utility other than Moorhead Public Service Department to
move, trim, prune, cut, disturb, alter or do surgery on any public tree or
shrub, the work to be done may be limited to the actual necessities of the
utility and an inspector may be assigned to supervise the work done under the
provisions of the permit.
   E.   Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Permit: The Council may deny,
suspend or revoke any permit defined by the provisions of this Section in
accordance with the provisions of Section 2-1-10B of this Code.
6-2A-5: GENERAL TREE AND SHRUB REGULATIONS:
   A.   Trees to be Kept Trimmed: Trees and shrubs standing in or upon any
private premises adjacent to any public street, right of way, sidewalk, park,
playground or other place shall be kept trimmed by the owner or owners of the
premises upon or in front of which such trees or shrubs are standing so that
the lowest branches projecting over the public street or right of way provide a
clearance of twelve feet (12'); and over all other public places of not less
than eight feet (8'). The City may waive the provisions of this Section for
newly planted trees if it determines that they do not interfere with public
travel, obstruct the light of any street light or endanger public safety. Any
tree or shrub not trimmed as herein provided is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   B.   Remove Dangerous Tree: The City Manager or appointed designees are
authorized and directed to summarily order removal of any tree or bough or
branch of a tree standing on any private property and overhanging any public
street, road, alley or sidewalk, when in their judgment the presence of such
tree, bough or branch constitutes an imminent danger to persons or private or
public property. The provisions of this subsection include those trees found on
the private property side of sidewalks but may properly be construed as
boulevard trees.
   C.   Obstruction of View at Intersections Prohibited: Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Article, no person shall maintain, plant or permit to
remain on any private or public premises situated at the intersection of two
(2) or more streets or alleys in the City any hedge, tree, shrub or other
growth which may obstruct the view of the operator of any motor vehicle
approaching such intersection to the extent that such operator is unable to
observe other vehicles or pedestrians approaching or crossing said
intersection. Any such hedge, tree, shrub or growth is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and shall be trimmed to a two foot (2') height or removed
where found within a distance of thirty feet (30') from the curb line.
6-2A-6: TREE CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, for
compensation, to prune, spray, trim or remove any tree or shrub in the City
without first obtaining a license therefor from the Council.
   B.   Application and Qualifications: Applicants for a tree contractor's
license shall submit such information as may be required by the City. Such
applicants shall agree in writing to comply with the following conditions:
      1.   That the applicant shall obey all ordinances, rules and regulations
pursuant to the authority of this Article which are relative to the purpose for
which the license is granted.
      2.   That the applicant agrees to hold the City harmless in case of any
accident or on account of any danger arising from exercise of the license.
      3.   That the applicant will furnish, prior to the issuance of the
license by the City, a policy of liability insurance covering all activities
within the scope of the license performed by the applicant within the city
which has a single limit liability coverage of six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000.00), naming the city as an additional insured under the policy and
that a copy of said policy be delivered to the city clerk. (Ord. 680, 5-21-
1979)
   C.   Granting Of License, Fee And Bond: The city clerk shall review the
qualifications of such applicants and shall recommend issuing a license only to
applicants who have met the adopted requirements. All applications shall be
accompanied by a receipt from the city clerk showing the payment of a license
fee as established by the city's fee schedule and shall be accompanied by a
performance bond in the name of the applicant and in favor of the city in the
sum as established by the city's fee schedule. The license shall entitle the
holder thereof to perform commercial tree work within the city for the ensuing
twelve (12) months after date of issue. (Ord. 680, 5-21-1979; amd. Ord. 2007-
30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   D.   Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The council may deny,
suspend or revoke any license defined by the provisions of this section in
accordance with the provisions of subsection 2-1-10B of this code. (Ord. 680,
5-21-1979)
6-2A-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on every day
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In addition to the penalties set forth herein, the city may avail
itself of such injunctive remedies to enforce the terms and conditions of this
article or to prohibit conduct contrary to the terms and conditions of this
article as it may deem necessary and as is allowable by law, by commencing an
appropriate action in the courts of Clay County having jurisdiction over such
action. Any such legal action by the city shall in no way affect the right of
the city to enforce penalties within the criminal court in addition to
obtaining injunctive relief. (Ord. 680, 5-21-1979)
ARTICLE B. CONTROL OF INVASIVE SPECIES TREE PESTS DUTCH ELM DISEASE CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Nuisance Declared
6-2B-2: Nuisance Prohibited
6-2B-3: Inspection And Investigation; Right To Enter
6-2B-4: Abatement On Public Property
6-2B-5: Abatement On Private Property
6-2B-6: Prohibited Acts
6-2B-7: Penalty
6-2B-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
To protect, preserve and conserve the value of public and private lands, and to
promote the general welfare of the public and this community, it is necessary
to protect, control and abate trees that create a public hazard. The following
examples are public nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
   A.   Any living or standing tree or part thereof infected to any degree or
infested with any Minnesota Department of Agriculture regulated invasive
species pest; or
   B.   Any dead tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood or other tree material from which the infected and-or infested part
has not been removed and burned or sprayed with an effective pesticide. (Ord.
2023-04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-2: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It is the intention of the council to conduct a program of plant pest control
pursuant to the authority granted by Minnesota statutes, section 18G.13 , as
such statute may be from time to time amended, supplemented or replaced. This
program is directed specifically at the control and elimination of plant pests
that infest trees within the City The city manager shall act as coordinator
between the commissioner of agriculture and the council in the conduct of this
program.
It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance as defined in
section
6-2B-1 to remain on any premises owned or controlled by said person within the
city. Such nuisance may be abated in the manner described in the chapter. (Ord.
427, 2-10-1969; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-3: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION; RIGHT TO ENTER:
   A.   Annual Inspection: All premises and places within the City shall be
inspected by authorized City personnel as often as practicable to determine
whether any condition described in Section 6-2B-2 exists thereon. All reported
incidents of infestation by an invasive species tree pest shall be promptly
investigated.
   B.   Entry on Private Premises: Authorized City personnel, may enter upon
private premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of
the duties assigned under this Article; provided that prior to commencing
performance of any other of such duties, an authorized City Employee or agent
shall endeavor to provide verbal notice to an occupant of the subject premises
of his identity and the purpose of his entry onto the premises.
   C.   It is unlawful to prevent, delay or interfere with a tree inspector
while they are engaged in the performance of duties imposed by this article.
   D.   Upon finding conditions indicating an invasive species tree pest
infection and-or infestation, appropriate specimens or samples shall be taken
for verification purposes. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-4: ABATEMENT ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   In abating the nuisances defined in section
6-2B-1, the infected or infested tree or wood shall be removed and burned or
otherwise effectively treated to destroy and prevent as full as possible the
spread of the invasive species tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be
carried out in accordance with current technical and expert methods and plans
as may be designated by the commissioner of agriculture of the state of
Minnesota or by the commissioner of natural resources of the State of
Minnesota. Specifications for tree removal and disposal methods consistent
therewith shall be established by the Director, City Forester, or other
appropriate designee. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-5: ABATEMENT POLICIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A.   Whenever a nuisance, as defined in section
6-2B-1, is found to exist within any developed portion or utilized portions of
any parcel or within 100 feet of such developed/utilized areas of any property
that may lie within non-maintained naturally wooded areas on private property,
the owner or person in control of such property shall be notified in writing,
or by mail or personal delivery, that such conditions exist. The notice shall
also state that if such nuisance is not abated by the owner or person in
control of such property within the timeline specifically outlined in the
written notice based on time of year and type of tree to be removed in the
manner prescribed by the city, by and through its public works department, may
enter upon the premises and abate the nuisance.
   B.   If the owner or person in control of any private premises upon which
such a nuisance exists does not abate or eliminate the same within the timeline
specifically outlined in the written notice based on time of year and type of
tree to be removed the city of Moorhead, its officers, employees and agents
shall proceed to have such nuisance properly abated or eliminated. (Ord. 2023-
04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Selling, storing, and transporting infested nuisance wood, as defined
in
6-2B-1, is unlawful for any person within the city without having obtained a
permit from the Public Works Director, City Forester, or other appropriate
designee. A permit shall be granted only when the purposes of this chapter
shall not be impaired or adversely effected.
   B.   Interference: It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or
interfere with any authorized City personnel while they are engaged in the
performance of duties imposed by this Article. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-27-2023)
6-2B-7: PENALTY:
Any persons violating Section
6-2B-6 shall, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions
of Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 427, 2-10-69; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 3-27-2023)
TITLE 7
WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose And Policy
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-1: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
   A.   This title sets forth uniform requirements for discharges into the
city's wastewater disposal system and enables the city to comply with all state
and federal laws. The objectives of this title are:
      1.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will interfere with the operation of the system or the
use or disposal of the sludge;
      2.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
disposal system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      3.   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   B.   This title provides for the regulation of discharges into the city's
wastewater disposal system through the issuance of permits to certain users and
through enforcement of the general requirements for the other users, authorizes
monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting, and provides
for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from
the program established herein.
   C.   This title provides for the regulation of and establishes criteria for
the use of public sewers; private sewage disposal; building sewers and
connections; and general discharge prohibitions.
   D.   This title provides for the regulation of industrial wastewater
discharges into the city's wastewater disposal system. Wastewater pretreatment
requirements and criteria are established and defined. (1987 Code)
   E.   This title defines the wastewater utility rate structure and user
charge system and the method for calculating charges for each user
classification: industrial, commercial, residential and multiple-family.
Procedures for rate adjustments and annual rate review criteria are
established. (Ord. 2000-12, 9-5-2000)
   F.   This title provides penalties for violations of provisions of this
title, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
   G.   This title shall apply to the city of Moorhead, Minnesota, and to
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city wastewater disposal system. This chapter is a supplement to chapter
2 of this title. (1987 Code)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms, as
used in this title, shall have the meanings hereinafter designated:
ACT:            The federal water pollution control act also known as the clean water act, as
                amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
APPROVAL        The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA).
AUTHORITY:
                A.   If the user is a corporation:
                   1.   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the corporation
                in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
                policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
                   2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
                facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management decisions which
                govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or
                implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations and initiating and
                directing other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance
                with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are
AUTHORIZED OR   established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for control
DULY AUTHORIZED mechanism requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
REPRESENTATIVE  delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
OF THE USER:    B.   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
                proprietor, respectively;
                C.   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a director or
                highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
                the activities of the government facility, or his/her designee.
                D.   The individuals described in paragraphs A through C above may designate a duly
                authorized representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization
                specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the
                facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for
                environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to
                the city.
                Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
BEST MANAGEMENT management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in section
PRACTICES       7-2-4 (40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements, operating
(BMPs):         procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
                waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
BIOCHEMICAL     The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under
OXYGEN DEMAND   standard laboratory procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C)
(BOD5):         expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/l)).
                That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives the
BUILDING DRAIN: discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building
                and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside
                the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: That extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of
                disposal.
CARBONACEOUS    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter, in
BIOCHEMICAL     the presence of a nitrification inhibitor, under standard laboratory procedures in
OXYGEN DEMAND   five (5) days at twenty degrees Centigrade (20°C) expressed in terms of weight and
(CBOD5):        concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/L)).
CATEGORICAL     An industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard or categorical
INDUSTRIAL      standard.
USER:
CATEGORICAL     Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance
PRETREATMENT    with sections 307(b) and (c) of the act (33 U.S.C. section 1317) that apply to a
STANDARD OR     specific category of users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
CATEGORICAL     405-471.
STANDARD:
CFR:            The Code of Federal Regulations, which is the codification of general and permanent
                rules of departments and agencies of the federal government.
CITY:           The city of Moorhead.
CONTROL         The city of Moorhead Wastewater Treatment Facility (WWTF).
AUTHORITY:
COUNCIL:        City council of the city of Moorhead.
EPA:            The United States environmental protection agency.
EXCESSIVE       The quantities of infiltration/inflow which can be economically eliminated from a
INFILTRATION/   sewerage system by rehabilitation, as determined in a cost-effectiveness analysis
INFLOW:         that compares the costs for correcting the infiltration/inflow conditions to the
                total costs for transportation and treatment of the infiltration/inflow.
GARBAGE:        Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and dispensing of
                food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDIRECT
DISCHARGE OR    The introduction of pollutants into the POTW from any nondomestic source.
DISCHARGE:
INDUSTRIAL      A person who discharges to city's wastewater disposal system liquid wastes resulting
USER:           from the processes employed in industrial, manufacturing, trade or business
                establishments, or from the development of any natural resource.
INDUSTRIAL      Liquid waste substance resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing trade,
WASTES:         or business, or from the development of any natural resource.
                Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system (including sewer service
INFILTRATION:   connections) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
                connections or manholes. Infiltration does not include and is distinguished from
                inflow.
INFILTRATION/   The total quantity of water from both infiltration and inflow without distinguishing
INFLOW:         the source.
                Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system (including sewer service
                connections) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area
INFLOW:         drains, foundation drains, sump pumps, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole
                covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins,
                cooling towers, storm waters surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage. Inflow
                does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
INTERCEPTOR     A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewaters from collector sewers to a
SEWER:          treatment facility.
                The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal system processes or
                operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal which causes or significantly
                contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or state disposal
                system permit. The term includes prevention of sewerage sludge use or disposal by the
INTERFERENCE:   city in accordance with published regulations providing guidelines under section 405
                of the act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
                Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title II commonly referred to as the Resources
                Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), the clean air act, the toxic substances control
                act, or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use
                employed by the city.
INTERSTATE      An agency of two (2) or more states established under an agreement or compact
AGENCY:         approved by the congress, or any other agency of two (2) or more states, having
                substantial powers or duties pertaining to the control of water pollution.
MPCA:           Minnesota pollution control agency.
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT       Any permit or requirements issued by the Minnesota pollution control agency (MPCA)
DISCHARGE       pursuant to the federal water pollution control act, as amended (33 USC 1251 et
ELIMINATION     seq.); for the purpose of regulating the discharge of sewage, industrial wastes or
SYSTEM (NPDES)  other wastes under the authority of section 402 of the act.
PERMIT:
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground
                water.
                A.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may
                be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
                publication of proposed pretreatment standards under section 307(c) of the act that
                will be applicable to such source if such pretreatment standards are thereafter
                promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
                   1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site
                at which no other source is located; or
                   2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces the
                process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at an
                existing source; or
                   3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building, structure,
                facility, or installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the
                same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such
                as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant, and
                the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of activity
                as the existing source, should be considered.
NEW SOURCE:     B.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
                modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create a new
                building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of Section A2 or
                A3 above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production
                equipment.
                C.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if
                the owner or operator has:
                   1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite construction
                program:
                      a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                      b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
                removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
                placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
                   2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
                or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
                Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
                substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do
                not constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
NON-CONTACT     Water used for cooling that does not come into direct contact with any chemical
COOLING WATER:  additive, raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished product.
                An operable treatment works is a treatment works that:
                A.   Upon completion of construction will treat wastewater, transport wastewater to
                or from treatment, or transport and dispose of wastewater in a manner which will
OPERABLE        significantly improve an objectionable water quality situation or health hazard, and
TREATMENT       B.   Is a component part of a complete waste treatment system which, upon completion
WORKS:          of construction for the complete waste treatment system (or completion of
                construction of other treatment works in the system in accordance with a schedule
                approved by the EPA regional administrator) will comply with all applicable statutory
                and regulatory requirements.
OTHER WASTE:    Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, sand, ashes,
                offal, oil, tar, chemicals and all other substances not sewage or industrial wastes.
                A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States in quantities or
PASS THROUGH:   concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from
                other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES
                permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
pH:             The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in grams per
                liter of solution.
                The state or any agency or institution thereof, any municipality, governmental
                subdivision, public or private corporation, individual, partnership, or other entity,
PERSON:         including, but not limited to, association, commission or any interstate body, and
                including any officer or governing or managing body of any municipality, governmental
                subdivision or public or private corporation or other entity.
                The process of reducing the amount of pollutants, eliminating pollutants, or altering
                the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or
                in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into the city's
PRETREATMENT:   wastewater disposal system. The reduction, elimination and alteration may be obtained
                by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or other means, except
                as prohibited by section
                7-2-4 of this title.
PRETREATMENT    Any substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment imposed on a user,
REQUIREMENTS:   other than a pretreatment standard.
PRETREATMENT    Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards, categorical
STANDARDS or    pretreatment standards, and local limits.
STANDARDS:
                The scope of work for which a grant or grant amendment may or may not be awarded
PROJECT:        under this title. The scope of work is defined as the planning, design and/or
                construction of treatment works or segments (see definition of "treatment works
                segment").
PROPERLY        Wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that has been shredded to
SHREDDED        such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
GARBAGE:        normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/
                2") (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER:   A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights, and is
                controlled by public authority.
PUBLICLY OWNED  A treatment works, as defined by section 212 of the act (33 USC 1292), which is owned
TREATMENT WORKS by the city. This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
(POTW):         storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
                liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
                Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances
REPLACEMENT:    which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment works to maintain the
                capacity and performance for which such works were designed and constructed. The term
                "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and industrial wastewaters from
                residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
SEPTIC TANK     Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
WASTE:          and septic tanks.
                A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
SEWAGE:         institutions and industrial establishments, together with such ground, surface and
                storm waters as may be present.
                Each and all of the common lateral sewers, within a publicly owned treatment system
                which are primarily installed to receive wastewaters directly from facilities which
                convey wastewater from individual structures or from private property, and which
SEWAGE          include service connection "wye" fittings designed for connection with these
COLLECTION      facilities. The facilities which convey wastewater from individual structures, or
SYSTEM:         from private property to the public lateral sewer, or its equivalent are specifically
                excluded from the definition, with the exception of pumping units, and pressurized
                lines, for individual structures or groups of structures when such units are cost
                effective and are owned and maintained by the city.
SEWER:          A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL/MAY:      Shall is mandatory; may is permissive.
                A.   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
                B.   An industrial user that:
                   1.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more of process
                wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
SIGNIFICANT     wastewater);
INDUSTRIAL USER    2.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up five percent (5%) or more
(SIU):          of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant;
                or
                   3.   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that it has a reasonable
                potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any
                pretreatment standard or requirement.
                An industrial user is in significant noncompliance if its violation meets one or more
                of the following criteria:
                A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined in this part as those
                in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken during a
                six (6) month period exceed, by any magnitude, a numeric pretreatment standard or
                requirement;
                B.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined in this part as those in
                which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
                pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period equal or exceed the product
                of a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement multiplied by the applicable TRC
                (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants
                except pH);
                C.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement that the POTW
                determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or
SIGNIFICANT     pass-through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
NONCOMPLIANCE:  public;
                D.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to human
                health, welfare, or the environment or has resulted in the receiving POTW authority's
                exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
                E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the scheduled date, a compliance
                schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or enforcement order for
                starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
                F.   Failure to provide, within forty-five (45) days after the due date, required
                reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day compliance reports,
                periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
                schedules;
                G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
                H.   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a violation of
                best management practices, that the POTW authority determines will adversely affect
                the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
                Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could cause a violation of the
                prohibited discharge standards in section
SLUG LOAD OR    7-2-4 of this title. A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine, episodic
SLUG DISCHARGE: nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
                discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or
                in any other way violate the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
STATE:          State of Minnesota.
STATE AGENCY:   The state pollution control agency designated by the governor having responsibility
                for enforcing state laws relating to the abatement of pollution.
STATE DISPOSAL  Any permit (including any terms, conditions and requirements thereof), issued by the
SYSTEM PERMIT:  MPCA pursuant to Minnesota statutes, 115-07 for disposal system, as defined by
                Minnesota statutes, 115-01, subdivision 8.
STORM SEWER:    A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters and
                drainage.
STORM WATER:    Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural precipitation and
                resulting therefrom.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of wastewater disposal system/or water pollution control of public
                works of this city or the person's duly authorized representative.
SUSPENDED       The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water,
SOLIDS:         wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable by a standard glass fiber filter.
                Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of
                municipal sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes used to implement
                section 201 of the act, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical
                cost over the useful life of the works. These include intercepting sewers, outfall
                sewers, sewage collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power and other
                equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions,
TREATMENT       and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
WORKS:          such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
                site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment process
                or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment (including
                land for composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost, and land used for the
                storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land application); or
                any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing, storing, treating,
                separating, or disposing of municipal waste or industrial waste, including waste in
                combined storm water and sanitary sewer systems.
                A treatment works segment may be any portion of an operable treatment works described
TREATMENT WORKS in an approved facilities plan, which can be identified as a contract or discrete
SEGMENT:        subitem or subcontract for the planning, design and/or construction of treatment
                works. Completion of construction of a treatment works segment may, but need not,
                result in an operable treatment works.
USEFUL LIFE:    Estimated period during which a treatment works will satisfy operations requirements.
USER:           Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of wastewater into the
                city's wastewater disposal system.
                A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's proportionate share of
USER CHARGE:    the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement and debt) of such works
                under sections 204(b)(1)(A) and 201(h)(2) of the act and this title.
                The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from dwellings, commercial
WASTEWATER:     buildings, industrial facilities and institutions, together with any ground water,
                surface water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated,
                which is discharged into or permitted to enter the city's wastewater disposal system.
                Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment or works owned or used by the city for
                the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of
                industrial and domestic wastewater or necessary to recycle or reuse water, including,
WASTEWATER      intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection system, pumping, power and
DISPOSAL SYSTEM other equipment, and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling,
OR SYSTEM:      additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled
                water supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any
                works, including land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is
                used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
WATERCOURSE:    A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
                All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs,
WATERS OF THE   reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
STATE:          accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or
                private, which are contained within, flow through or border upon the state or any
                portion thereof.
 
Terms not otherwise defined herein shall be as given in Minnesota statutes,
chapters 115 and 116, as such statutes may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 94-2, 2-22-1994; Ord. 2000-12,
9-5-2000; Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
CHAPTER 2
USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Use of Public Sewers
7-2-2: Private Sewage Disposal
7-2-3: Building Sewers and Connections
7-2-4: Discharge Prohibitions
7-2-5: Industrial Waste Disposal
7-2-6: Wastewater Service Charge
7-2-6-1: Charges
7-2-6-2: Additional Regulations and Restrictions
7-2-7: Fees
7-2-8: Administration
7-2-8-1: User Reports
7-2-8-2: Wastewater Discharge Permits
7-2-8-3: Permit Conditions
7-2-8-4: Powers and Authority of Inspections
7-2-9: Confidential Information
7-2-10: Enforcement
7-2-10-1: Slug or Accidental Discharges
7-2-10-2: Revocation of Permit
7-2-10-3: Legal Action
7-2-10-4: Annual Publication
7-2-11: Penalties
7-2-12: Severability
7-2-13: Conflict
7-2-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Waste Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge to Natural Outlet: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
City, any sewage or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   On-Site Sewage Disposal: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Sewer Connection: The owners of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of
the City, are hereby required at their expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public
sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the property line.
   E.   Extraneous Waters: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
unpolluted water (inflow) from any roof, surface, groundwater sump pump,
footing tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation into the sanitary
sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures which require,
because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a
sump pump discharge system shall have a permanently installed discharge line
which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary sewer system,
except as provided in subsection
7-2-1E3. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year round
discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to the City storm sewer or discharges to the curb
and gutter or the street. It shall consist of elements that do not allow
altering the path of discharge.
      1.   Before January 1, 1997, any person, firm or corporation having a
roof surface, groundwater sump pump, footing tile or swimming pool now
connected and/or discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect
and/or remove same. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be
closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner, as approved by the
city.
      2.   Any person refusing to allow their property to be inspected for
extraneous water connections within fourteen (14) days of the date city
employees or their designated representatives are denied admittance to the
property, shall immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter
provided for in subsection
7-2-11G of this chapter. Any person found to violate this provision shall make
the necessary changes to comply with this provision relating to the discharge
of unpolluted waters (inflow) into the sanitary sewer system and furnish proof
of the changes to the city within ninety (90) days. Each sump pump connection
identified may be reinspected by the city, or a licensed plumber, to confirm
compliance.
      3.   The city shall have the authority and duty of hearing and deciding
requests for waivers from the applicability of this provision where strict
enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances or cause a
safety problem.
Application for waivers pursuant to this provision shall be addressed in
writing to the city. The applications shall, at a minimum, identify the
property for which the waiver is being applied, the name of the property owner/
applicant, and describe in detail what characteristics of the subject property
create an undue hardship. Within a reasonable time, the city shall make a
decision on the matter and serve a copy of such order upon the applicant by
mail. If a seasonal waiver permits the property owner to temporarily discharge
directly into the sanitary sewer system between the dates of November 1 and
March 31, or a nonseasonal waiver permits the property owner to discharge
directly into the sanitary sewer system without seasonal restrictions, the
applicant must agree to pay an additional fee as established by the city's fee
schedule. The holder of a seasonal waiver shall allow a city employee to
certify that prior to April 1 of each subsequent year their discharge water
connection has been removed from the sanitary sewer. Failure to provide such
certification will place the seasonal waiver holder in violation and subject to
the surcharge as outlined in subsection
7-2-11G of this chapter. Any waiver granted shall be recorded at the office of
the Clay County recorder. The city shall record the waiver, but the property
owner is responsible for the filing fee. If the property owner brings the
system into total compliance, a release of waiver shall be filed by the city
upon request of the property owner upon payment of the filing fee.
      4.   Properties identified as having sump pump connections will be
reinspected by the city to confirm compliance upon sale of the property.
   F.   Disposal Of Septage: No person shall discharge material originating
from septic tanks, sewage holding tanks, vaults, storage compartments or other
similar facilities without prior issuance of an annual special use permit from
the city.
      1.   Application for such a permit shall be made to the city clerk on
forms provided. A permit fee shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed. Evaluation and approval of special use permits shall be
made by the city including any special conditions that may be deemed
appropriate. Discharges from septic tanks and related systems shall be subject
to prohibitions listed in section
7-2-4 of this chapter.
      2.   Special use permits shall be renewable on an annual basis, at the
discretion of the city, on January 1 of each year. Failure to renew a special
use permit and/or failure to pay the annual renewal fee shall invalidate the
permit as of the renewal date.
      3.   Discharge of material described in this subsection F and sanctioned
by a valid special use permit shall be made to the city sewerage system only at
locations authorized by the city and during normal working hours. A minimum of
one-half (1/2) hour prior notification shall be given to the city to enable the
presence of city personnel during the discharge operation.
      4.   No discharge of waste material described in this subsection F shall
be made to the sewage system unless such discharge is made at the wastewater
treatment facility or other site within the system previously approved by the
city.
      5.   No discharge of waste material described in this subsection F shall
be made to the system in a quantity greater than three thousand (3,000) gallons
at any one time unless specifically allowed by a valid special use permit.
      6.   A charge shall be levied to the holder of a valid permit for each
discharge at such rate and minimum charge/discharge as shall be established by
the city's fee schedule.
      7.   These charges will be based on the industrial rates currently in
effect and will be reviewed and updated annually to reflect a sampling of the
actual septage materials loading received during the previous calendar year.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 94-2, 2-22-1994; Ord. 94-21, 1-9-1995; Ord. 98-4, 4-6-
1998; Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008; Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-
2022)
7-2-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   General: Where a public sanitary is not available under the provisions
of subsection
7-2-1D of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Permit Application: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the
City. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as deemed necessary. A permit and inspection fee shall be
paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Permit Inspection: A permit for private sewage disposal system shall
not become effective until the installation or modifications are completed to
the satisfaction of the City. Authorized City personnel shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the City when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within four (4) working hours of the receipt of notice by the
Superintendent.
   D.   Sewage Disposal System: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of Clay
County and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. No permit shall be issued
for any private sewage disposal system where the area of the lot is less than
twenty two thousand (22,000) square feet, employing subsurface soil absorption
facilities that does not satisfy Clay County and Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency requirements. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   E.   Connection: At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
D of this Section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material, approved by authorized City personnel.
   F.   Operation: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
City.
   G.   Conflict: No statement contained in this Chapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City or
any authorized City personnel. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit, General: No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
   B.   Permit, Application: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits: 1) for residential and commercial service, and 2) for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or an
agent of the owner shall make application on a special form furnished by the
City. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent. A permit and inspection fee shall be
paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   Connection Costs: All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Number Of Connections: A separate and independent building sewer shall
be provided for every building.
   E.   Reuse Of Old Connection: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by
authorized City personnel, to meet all the requirements of this Chapter.
   F.   Construction: The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of
a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes 1  or other applicable rules
and regulations of the City and the current regulations of the Minnesota Water
Pollution Control Agency. In the absence of code provisions or in application
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the ASTM, Ten States Standards, and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 or as
approved by authorized City personnel shall apply.
   G.   Location: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   Restrictions: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   Building Codes: The connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or
other applicable rules and regulations of the City and State of Minnesota, of
the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM, Ten States
Standards and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by authorized City personnel before installation.
   J.   Inspection: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the City when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of authorized
city personnel.
   K.   Safety And Restoration: All excavations for building sewer
installations shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored to their
original condition or to a better condition in a manner satisfactory to the
city 2 . A street cutting permit shall be required for all excavations made in
the areas of city streets, sidewalks, parkways and other paved areas.
   L.   Maintenance Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the owner
to maintain the building sewer from the building up to and including the wye
where the building sewer is connected with the public sewer. If the maintenance
of the building sewer requires excavation of a public street, the owner shall
notify the engineering department and obtain an excavation permit prior to
excavating a public street. If the problem with the building sewer is at the
wye connecting the building sewer with the public sewer, the wastewater
division of the city's engineering department shall be notified of that fact
and shall inspect and verify that the problem is at the wye. If the problem is
at the wye, the city shall pay one- half (1/2) of the cost of the maintenance;
provided, however, that the city must review and approve the bill of the
contractor hired by the owner to repair the building sewer. The contractor
hired by the owner to repair the building sewer shall follow the other
requirements of section
7-2-3 relating to new construction which are applicable to maintenance work.
   M.   Payment For Costs As Special Assessment:
      1.   Although the cost of maintaining a building sewer is that of the
owner, except as provided in subsection L of this section, the city will allow
the homeowner to pay for the cost of the maintenance of a building sewer as a
special assessment under the following conditions:
         a.   The maintenance involves excavation of a public street.
         b.   The owner's share of the cost of the maintenance is in excess of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         c.   The wastewater division of the city's engineering department has
reviewed and approved the bill from the contractor hired by the owner.
         d.   The owner petitions the city to assess their share of the cost
within seven (7) days of the completion of the repair work.
      2.   If the above conditions are met, the city will initially pay the
costs and spread as an assessment the principal amount of the owner's costs
over ten (10) equal annual installments, with the interest rate on the
assessment being set in the year the work is completed at the rate set for
similar special assessments in that calendar year.
   N.   Infiltration/Inflow Elimination During Construction: During any new
construction, renovation, or demolition the connection(s) to the sanitary sewer
shall be protected through the use of a cover plug in order to eliminate the
potential for inflow to enter the sanitary sewer system. Any such water
collected shall not be allowed to enter the sanitary sewer system at any time.
   O.   Sump Pump Requirements For New Construction: All new buildings with
groundwater sump systems are required, prior to final inspection by city code
personnel, to have the sump pump installed. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 92-7, 5-26-
1992; Ord. 94-2, 2-22-1994; Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-1 of this Code.
2 1. See also chapter 4, title 8 of this code.
7-2-4: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described substances into the wastewater
disposal system or to any public sewer.
      1.   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason by their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. At no time, shall
two (2) successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of
discharge into the system or any point in the system, be more than five percent
(5%) nor any single reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit
(LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides.
      2.   Solid or viscous substances which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, leaves, rags, spent grains, spent hops,
wastepaper, wood, plastic, gas, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining
or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing
wastes.
      3.   Any wastewater having a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 11.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
      4.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater
disposal system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any
pollutant identified pursuant to section 307(a) of the act.
      5.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by applicable state or federal
regulations.
      6.   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids, which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      7.   Any substance which may cause the wastewater disposal system's
effluent or any other product of the wastewater treatment process such as
residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case, shall a substance
discharged to the wastewater disposal system cause the system to be in
noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
developed under section 405 of the act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations
affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the solid waste disposal
act, the clean air act, the toxic substances control act or state standards
applicable to the sludge management method being used.
      8.   Any substance which will cause the wastewater disposal system to
violate its NPDES and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving water
quality standards.
      9.   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      10.   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute or any rule, regulation or ordinance
of any public agency or state or federal regulatory body.
      11.   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65.6°C) or causing, individually or in combination
with other wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment plant to have a
temperature exceeding one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the publicly
owned treatment works resulting in interference.
      12.   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.), released in a discharge of such volume or
strength which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants will
cause interference in the wastewater disposal system.
      13.   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, non-contact
cooling waters, storm water, surface waters, roof runoff, subsurface drainage
or ground water.
      14.   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred fifty milligrams per liter (150 mg/
l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) and one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0°C) and (65.6°C); and any wastewater containing
oil and grease concentrations of mineral origin of greater than one hundred
milligrams per liter (100 mg/l), whether emulsified or not.
      15.   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that they would cause interference with wastewater systems.
      16.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review and
approval of authorized city personnel.
      17.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      18.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
CFR 261.21.
      19.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
In addition to these prohibitions, no user shall discharge to any public sewer
any discharge which causes pass through or interference, with the wastewater
disposal system. Pollutants in the effluent from an industrial user shall not
be considered to cause pass through or interference where the industrial user
is in compliance with specific prohibitions or standards developed by federal,
state or local governments. Where the industrial user is in compliance with
such specific prohibitions or standards, and pollutants in the effluent from
the industrial user's facility nevertheless are determined to have caused or
significantly contributed to a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES
or state disposal system permit, and are likely to cause such a violation in
the future, the city must take appropriate action to develop and enforce
specific effluent limits for that industrial user to ensure renewed and
continued compliance with the city's NPDES or state disposal system permit.
   B.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection A of this section, and which may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes,
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers,
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
7-2-5 of this chapter.
If the city permits or requires the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to review, approval of the city and to the requirements of all applicable
codes, ordinances, laws and federal and state regulations.
   C.   All oils, greases, flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients
shall be removed from the interceptor and placed in containers and disposed of
in such a manner that no part thereof shall drain into the sanitary sewer
system.
Authorized city personnel shall make the necessary inspection of the
interceptors described in this section and take all required steps of
enforcement. Any person who is found in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalties of section
7-2-10 this chapter.
   D.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owners at their expense.
   E.   New discharges of non-contact cooling water to the POTW are prohibited
unless there is no cost-effective alternative. Existing discharges of non-
contact cooling water to the POTW shall be eliminated where elimination is cost
effective, or where infiltration/inflow analysis and sewer system evaluation
indicate the need for such removal.
   F.   Wastes trucked or hauled to a POTW shall be discharged only at a point
designated by the POTW authority. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2000-12, 9-5-2000; Ord.
2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-5: INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Industrial Waste Measurement And Sampling: Any person discharging
industrial wastewater into the city system or any connected disposal system
shall provide and maintain a suitable point or points of access together with
such necessary meters and other appurtenances at an appropriate location prior
to discharge of the total combined waste stream into the disposal system to
permit observation, measurement and sampling of such waste by the user and
authorized city personnel. Plans for such points and measuring equipment shall
be submitted to and approved by authorized city personnel prior to construction
and installation of same. Sampling and measuring facilities shall be such as to
provide safe access for making inspection and verification of their proper
operating condition. The metered water supply to a source of industrial waste
volume shall be measured where it can be established that the metered water
supply and waste quantities are approximately the same, or where a measurable
adjustment to the metered supply can be made to determine the waste volume.
   B.   Monitoring Facilities: Monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
systems shall be provided and operated by all industrial users. The monitoring
facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the city may,
when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user,
allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and
located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow
accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and monitoring
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's requirements and all
applicable local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall
be completed within ninety (90) days following written notification by the
city, unless a time extension is otherwise granted by the city.
   C.   Inspection And Sampling: Authorized city personnel shall inspect the
facilities of any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is
being met and compliance with all requirements is being satisfied. Persons or
occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow
authorized city personnel ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any associated duties. Authorized city personnel, the MPCA, and
the EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the user shall make necessary arrangements with any security guard so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, authorized city personnel, the MPCA
and the EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   D.   Industrial Waste Analysis: Determination of the character and
concentration of an industrial waste discharged into the city system shall be
made by the persons discharging it or their designated agents. Reports showing
quantities and pertinent analytical data, including chain-of-custody, of such
industrial waste discharges shall be filed with the control authority as
required by the city.
   E.   Measurement And Test Procedures: All measurements, tests and analyses
of the characteristics of waste to which reference is made in these rules and
regulations shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published
jointly by the American public health association, the American water works
association and the water pollution control federation. Sampling shall be
carried out by methods acceptable to said reference and approved by the city.
Alternate methods for certain analyses may be used subject to prior written
approval by the city.
   F.   Confidential Information: Information and data on a user obtained from
reports, questionnaires, permit application, permits and monitoring programs
and from inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able
to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable state law.
When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such
information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which might
disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment programs and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as
confidential information and shall be available to the public without
restriction.
   G.   Pretreatment: Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city
for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this
chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the
user's initiation of the changes.
All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available by the city to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon request.
   H.   Limitations On Wastewater Strength:
      1.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards: National categorical
pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S. environmental protection agency
(EPA) pursuant to the act shall be met by all users which are subject to such
standards in any instance where they are more stringent than the limitations in
this chapter unless the city has applied for and obtained from the MPCA
approval to modify the specific limits in the national categorical pretreatment
standards. When requested, an application for modification of the national
categorical pretreatment standards will be considered for submittal by the city
when the city's wastewater treatment system achieves consistent removal, as
defined in 40 CFR 403.7(B)(1), of the pollutants. Conditional revisions of
national categorical pretreatment standards may be made by the city in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.7(c) if requested by the industry(ies) in accordance
with requirements of 40 CFR 403.7(d).
      2.   State Requirements: State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall be met by all users which are subject to such standards in any instance
in which they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
      3.   City's Rights Of Revision: The city reserves the right to establish
by code more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in section
7-2-1 of this chapter.
      4.   Dilution: Except where expressly authorized to do so by an
applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, no user shall increase the use
of process water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the
limitations contained herein, contained in the federal pretreatment standards,
or contained in any state requirements. The control authority may impose mass
limitations on industrial users which are using dilution to meet applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases where the imposition
of mass limitation is appropriate.
      5.   Sludges Generated: Sludges, floats, skimmings, etc., generated by an
industrial or commercial pretreatment system shall not be placed into the
city's wastewater disposal system. Such sludges shall be contained, transported
and disposed of by haulers in accordance with all federal, state and local
regulations.
      6.   Local Limits:
         a.   The city is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to 40
CFR 403.5(c) and Minnesota Administrative Rule 7049.0850.
         b.   The city may develop BMPs, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, to implement local limits and the requirements of
section
7-2-4.
   I.   Accidental Discharges: Each user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter. Necessary facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's
own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the city for
review, and shall be approved by the city before construction of the facility.
Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve
the industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter.
Accidental discharges of prohibited waste into the city system directly or
through another disposal system, or to any place from which such waste may
enter the city system shall be reported to the city by the person responsible
for the discharge, or by the owners or occupants of the premises where the
discharge occurs, promptly upon obtaining knowledge of the fact of such
discharge.
   J.   Basis For Industrial Wastewater Charge: When an industrial waste
discharged into the city disposal system has a biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5)
or a total suspended solids (TSS) concentration greater than the base
concentration established by the council, or discharges process wastewater with
a rated flow of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons or more per day or a load
of five percent (5%) or more of the capacity of the wastewater treatment works
where the rated flow is the daily design flow multiplied by twenty four (24)
and divided by the actual hours of discharge in a single day, the normal waste
charges shall be as stated in section
7-2-6 of this chapter.
      1.   In the event where an industrial waste charge is applicable because
of high strength waste, but the revenue generated using the charge method is
less than the revenue generated based upon flow, then the user shall be charged
the higher of the two (2) rates.
      2.   Whenever an industrial waste charge is determined to be applicable
to an unusually high strength waste, the analysis of which indicates
biochemical oxygen demand and/or total suspended solids concentrations greater
than the base values established by the council, then the city shall apply the
industrial charge to the waste of the person(s) discharging such waste or
causing it to be discharged into its disposal system.
      3.   Industrial waste charges attributable to this chapter and collected
by the city shall be for and account of and payable to the city as compensation
for the costs resulting from the discharge of such high strength waste.
      4.   Property owners or tenants with abnormal sewage must install and
maintain devices to sample, on a flow proportional basis, and continuously
measure the wastewater flows. The city shall inspect for proper operation of
the devices in regards to sample collection. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2000-12, 9-
5-2000; Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-6: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Wastewater service charge is used herein to mean revenue collected for
the three (3) following areas: 1) wastewater treatment operations, 2)
maintenance and replacement sewer collection systems operations, and 3)
maintenance and replacement debt retirement.
These charges are based on actual use or reasonable estimate thereof.
   B.   An annual audit of expenses and revenue shall be made at the end of
each fiscal year by the city; if upon review of the annual audit the city deems
it necessary, the rates described herein shall be adjusted accordingly to meet
the needs of the annual audit with said adjustment to be made by the council.
(Ord. 2000-12, 9-5-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-6-1: CHARGES:
The following rate structure for the use and service of the wastewater disposal
system of the city of Moorhead are hereby established. Charges shall be made
against such lot, parcel of land or premises which may have a sewer connection
in the sanitary sewer system in the city or which may otherwise discharge
sewage or waste, either directly or indirectly into the sewer system or any
part thereof, and such charges shall be established by the council.
   A.   Part 1; Basis For Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service
charge for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of
the city shall consist of a charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement and a debt service charge.
      1.   Wastewater Cost Of Service: The costs of providing wastewater
services to each customer category shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year.
         b.   Allocate the projected annual revenue to functional cost
components such as customer and volume/load related components which may
include, but not be limited to, volume, BOD5, and TSS components.
         c.   Estimate wastewater units of service to be provided such as
customer and volume/load related units of service, which may include, but not
be limited to, volume, BOD5, and TSS units of service. Units of service
associated with BOD5, TSS, and any other load related parameters exceeding the
base concentration established by the council must be computed separately from
units of service at or below the base concentrations established for these
parameters.
         d.   Determine a unit cost of service for each functional cost
component. The unit cost of service is determined by dividing the allocated
costs from step b by the respective units of service from step c.
         e.   Determine the total cost of service for each customer category by
multiplying the appropriate unit costs of service from step d by the units of
service applicable to each customer category from step c.
         f.   Repeat steps a through e for computation of the cost of service
due to the debt service.
      2.   Wastewater Treatment Charge: The charge shall be based on the actual
quantity of wastewater discharged, or a reasonable estimate thereof, which may
utilize, but not be limited to, information obtained from water usage as
recorded by water meters and/or wastewater meters and results from routine
monitoring for BOD5, TSS and other applicable parameters.
         a.   It shall consist of an operation and maintenance plus replacement
rate and shall be computed by dividing the appropriate costs of service by the
billable units of service for each customer category, as determined in
subsection A1 of this section, as follows:
            (1)   A customer charge is determined by dividing all customer
related costs of service by the number of customers in each customer category.
            (2)   A volume charge is determined by dividing the sum of volume
related costs of service and load related costs of service associated with
concentrations at or below the base concentration established by the council
for BOD5, TSS, and/or other applicable parameters, by the billable volume for
each customer category.
            (3)   Surcharges for wastewaters exceeding the base concentrations
established by the council for BOD5, TSS, and any other applicable load related
parameter are determined by dividing the sum of the appropriate load related
costs of service by the billable load related units of service associated with
concentrations exceeding the base concentration.
         b.   The debt service rate will be computed using the same procedure
described for the operations and maintenance plus replacement charge in
subsection A2a of this section.
         c.   The total rate will be the sum of the operations and maintenance
plus replacement rate and the debt service rate.
   B.   Part 2; Wastewater Treatment Charge: The wastewater treatment charge
shall consist of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt charges and shall
be applied as given below:
      1.   Residential Use: A customer charge plus volume charge shall be
applied to every single-family dwelling.
      2.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: A volume charge shall be applied to every
metered multiple-family dwelling consisting of two (2) or more family units
including trailer parks.
      3.   Multiple-Family Tenants: A customer charge shall be applied to each
single-family unit within a multiple-family dwelling including manufactured
homes in trailer parks.
      4.   Commercial Use: A customer charge plus volume charge shall be
applied to every metered commercial building, including, but not limited to,
metered nonresidential, nonmultiple- family, and nonindustrial businesses,
schools, parks, government, and public customers.
      5.   Industrial Use: A customer charge, volume charge, and appropriate
surcharges in accordance with subsection A2 of this section shall be applied to
every industrial customer in accordance with subsection 7-2-6J of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-12, 9-5-2000)
7-2-6-2: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Annual Review Of Wastewater Service Charges: The city shall review not
less often than every year the wastewater contribution of users and user
classes; the total costs of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt
service of the treatment works; and its approved user charge system. The city
shall revise the charges as required annually for users or user classes to
accomplish the following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt costs among users and user classes as required herein;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt costs necessary to the proper operation, maintenance and
replacement of the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
   B.   Pollutants: The user charge system shall provide that each user which
discharges any pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the
effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall pay for such increased
costs.
   C.   Charges For Operation And Maintenance For Extraneous Flows: The user
charge system shall provide that the costs of operation, maintenance,
replacement and debt for all flows not directly attributable to users (i.e.,
infiltration/inflow and sewer line cleaning) be distributed among all users of
the treatment works system in the same manner that the city distributes the
costs of operation, maintenance, replacement and debt among users (or user
classes) for their actual use.
   D.   Notification: Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment and collection services.
Public informational meetings may be held annually.
   E.   Inconsistent Agreements: The city may have preexisting agreements which
address: 1) the reservation of capacity in the city's treatment works, or 2)
the charges to be collected by the city in providing wastewater treatment
services or reserving capacity. The user charge system shall take precedence
over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts between the city and
users (including industrial users, special districts, other municipalities, or
federal agencies or installations) which are inconsistent with the requirements
of section 204(b)(1)(A) of the act and this chapter. (1987 Code)
7-2-7: FEES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the city's wastewater disposal system for the
implementation of the program established herein. The applicable charges or
fees shall be set forth in the city's schedule of charges and fees and approved
by council.
   B.   Charges And Fees: The city shall adopt charges and fees which may
include:
      1.   Charges for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      2.   Fees for permit applications;
      3.   Appeal fees; and
      4.   Other fees and/or charges as may be deemed necessary to carry out
the requirements contained herein. (1987 Code)
7-2-8: ADMINISTRATION:
7-2-8-1: USER REPORTS:
The city may require that any person discharging or proposing to discharge
wastewater to the wastewater disposal system file a periodic discharge report.
The discharge report may include, but not be limited to, nature of process,
rates of flow, mass discharge rate, raw material and production quantities,
hours of operation, number and classification of employees, compliance status
with any state or federal pretreatment standards or other information, which
relates to the generation of waste, including wastewater constituents and
characteristics in the wastewater discharge. Such reports may also include the
chemical constituents and quantity of liquid or gaseous materials stored on-
site, even though they may not normally be discharged. At a minimum, a summary
of such data indicating each industrial user's compliance with this chapter
shall be prepared quarterly and submitted to the city. In addition to discharge
reports, the city may require information in the form of wastewater discharge
permit applications, self-monitoring reports and compliance schedules. (1987
Code)
7-2-8-2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS:
   A.   Mandatory Permits: All significant industrial users proposing to
connect or to commence a new discharge to the wastewater disposal system shall
obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or discharging into
the wastewater system. All existing significant industrial users or industrial
users subject to federal pretreatment standards under sections 307(b) and (c)
of the act connected to or discharging into the wastewater disposal system
shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within ninety (90) days after the
effective date of this chapter.
      1.   The city may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than one hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of
total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment
standard) and the following conditions are met:
         a.   The industrial user, prior to the city's finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
         b.   The industrial user annually submits a certification statement,
together with any additional information necessary to support the certification
statement; and
         c.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
      2.   Upon a finding that a user has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the city may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user, and in accordance with procedures
in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be considered a
significant industrial user.
      3.   The city may require other users to obtain individual wastewater
discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
      4.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subjects
the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in section
7-2-10 of this chapter. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and
state pretreatment standards or requirements or with any other requirements of
federal, state, and local law.
   B.   Permit Application: Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit shall complete and file with the city an application in the form
prescribed by the city and accompanied by a fee (fees set by council). Existing
users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within thirty (30) days
after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at
least ninety (90) days prior to connecting or discharging to the wastewater
disposal system. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and term appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      1.   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      2.   SIC number according to the standard industrial classification
manual, bureau of the budget, 1972, as amended;
      3.   Wastewater constituent and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those governed by section
7-2-4 of this chapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of the act and contained in
40 CFR, part 136, as such statute and regulations may be from time to time
amended, supplemented or replaced;
      4.   Time and duration of discharge;
      5.   Average daily and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variation, if any;
      6.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewer, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      7.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      8.   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and (for an existing discharge) a statement regarding whether or not
the pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      9.   Each product produced by type, amount and rate of production;
      10.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      11.   Number of full- and part-time employees, and hours of work;
      12.   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application. The city will evaluate the data furnished
by the user and may require additional information. After evaluation and
acceptance of the data furnished, the city may issue a wastewater discharge
permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein or deny the application.
         a.   The city may deny or condition new or increased contributions of
pollutants, or changes in the nature of pollutants, to the POTW by industrial
users where such contributions do not meet applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements or where such contributions would cause the POTW to violate
its NPDES permit. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-8-3: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
   A.   Compliance, Contents: Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this title and all other applicable regulations,
user charges and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the
following:
      1.   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date, and effective date.
      2.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater disposal system;
      3.   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater effluent constituents
and characteristics, including BMPs, based on applicable pretreatment
standards;
      4.   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      5.   Requirements for installation and maintenance on inspection and
sampling facilities;
      6.   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      7.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include self-
monitoring, sampling locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types
and standards for tests, and reporting schedule;
      8.   Compliance schedules;
      9.   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      10.   Requirements to maintain all records of information from monitoring
activities related to wastewater discharge and documentation associated with
BMP's, which may include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling,
and the name of the person(s) taking the samples, the date analyses were
performed, who performed the analyses, and analytical techniques or methods
used, and the results of such analyses;
      11.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, but in no case less than
three (3) years, and affording city access for inspection and copying thereto;
      12.   Requirements for notification to the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      13.   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as provided in
section
7-2-10-1 of this chapter;
      14.   Requirements for a user spill control plan (SCP); if needed,
requirements to control slug discharges; and
      15.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law;
      16.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Permit Duration: Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five (5) years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit re-issuance a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the
expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and conditions of the
permit may be subject to modification by the city during the term of the permit
as limitations or requirements as identified in section 7-2-4 are modified or
other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of any proposed changes in
the permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of change. Any
changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance.
   C.   Permit Modifications: Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a
national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to such standard shall be revised to require compliance with such
standard within the time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit as required by
subsection
7-2-8-2 of Section
7-2-8, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the City within one hundred eighty
(180) days after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard the information required by subsection
7-2-8-2 of Section
7-2-8. If the information previously submitted in an application is still
current and adequate, only a letter from the user certifying such is required.
   D.   Permit Transfer: Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the City. Any succeeding
owner or user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing
permit. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-8-4: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authorized City personnel, or its designated representative bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Persons or
occupants of premises where wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the
authorized City personnel ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and in the
performance of any of their duties. The City, MPCA and EPA shall have the right
to set up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. The
City representatives, or its agents, shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with any security guard so that upon presentation
of suitable identification, the authorized City personnel, MPCA and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibilities.
   C.   Authorized City personnel, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the City holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 94-2, 2-22-1994; Ord. 2022-12,
5-23-2022)
7-2-9: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspection shall
be available to the public or other governmental agencies without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the City that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law.
   B.   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program
or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR 2.302 shall not be recognized as
confidential information and shall be available to the public without
restriction. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
7-2-10-1: SLUG OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
Users shall notify the City immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this Chapter in order to
enable countermeasures to be taken by the City to minimize damage to the
wastewater disposal system and the receiving water. Such notification will not
relieve users of liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater
disposal system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the City on
account thereof under any State or Federal law.
The City may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater
discharge permit when such suspension is necessary in the opinion of the City,
in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment or to the wastewater disposal system, or would
cause the City to violate any condition of its NPDES or State disposal system
permit.
Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the discharge. In the
event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the suspension order,
the City shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the
wastewater disposal system or endangerment to any individuals. The City shall
reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or
accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the City within fifteen (15) days of the date of
occurrence. (1987 Code)
7-2-10-2: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   In accordance with the procedures of subsection
7-2-8-2 of this Chapter, the City may revoke the permit of any user which fails
to factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of the
discharge; which fails to report significant changes in wastewater constituents
or characteristics; which refuses reasonable access to the user's premises for
the purpose of inspection or monitoring; or for violation of conditions of its
permit, this Chapter or applicable State and Federal regulations.
   B.   Notification of Violation: Whenever the City finds that any person has
violated or is violating this Chapter, wastewater discharge permit, or any
prohibition, limitation or requirement contained herein, the City may serve
upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within
thirty (30) days of the date of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the City by the user.
   C.   Compliance Orders: When the city finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the city may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment
standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   D.   Show Cause Hearing:
      1.   Notice of Hearing: If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the City may order any user which causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to show cause before the Council why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time
and place of a hearing to be held by the Council regarding the violation, the
reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the user to show cause before the Council why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or
officer of a corporation.
      2.   Hearing Officials: The Council may itself conduct the hearing and
take the evidence, or may designate the City Manager, or designee of the City
Manager, to:
         a.   Issue in the name of the City notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearings;
         b.   Take the evidence; and
         c.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the council
for action thereon.
      3.   Transcripts: At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
      4.   Issuance Of Orders: After the council has reviewed the evidence, it
may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-
2022)
7-2-10-3: LEGAL ACTION:
If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the city
attorney may, following the authorization of such action by the council,
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief. (1987 Code)
7-2-10-4: ANNUAL PUBLICATION:
A list of the users which were determined to be in significant noncompliance as
defined in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(viii) with any pretreatment requirement or
standard during the twelve (12) previous months shall be annually published in
a local newspaper. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement
actions taken against the user(s) during the same twelve (12) months. (Ord.
2000-12, 9-5-2000; amd. Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Civil Penalties: Any user who is found to have violated an order of the
council made in accordance with this chapter or who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, and the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder, except subsection
7-2-1E of this chapter, shall be liable to the city for the maximum civil
penalty allowed under Minnesota law, but not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each such offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. Filing a suit for
civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
   B.   Criminal Penalties: A user who willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
the maximum fine allowed under Minnesota law, per violation, but not less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day, or imprisonment for not more than
ninety (90) days, or both.
   C.   Protection From Damage: No unauthorized person shall maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct.
   D.   Costs Of Damage: Any user violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or who has a discharge which causes a deposit, obstruction, damage or
other impairment to the city's wastewater disposal system shall become liable
to the city for any expense, loss or damage caused by the violation or
discharge. The city may add to the user's charges and fees the costs assessed
for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation or
discharge. Any refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
   E.   City's Attorney Fees And Costs: In addition to the civil penalties
provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs,
court reporter fees and other expenses of litigation by an appropriate action
against the person found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder.
   F.   Falsifying Information: Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, or certification in any application, record, report, plan or other
document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or
wastewater discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than the maximum fine
allowed under Minnesota law or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90)
days, or by both.
   G.   Assessment: In the case of partnerships and associations, the penalty
may be imposed upon the partners or member thereof, and in the case of
corporations and local government units, upon the person authorizing the
violation or the officers thereof.
   H.   Surcharge For Infiltration/Inflow: A surcharge as established by the
city's fee schedule is hereby imposed. This surcharge will be in addition to
the regular sewer billing on and after January 1, 1997, to property owners who
are not in compliance with subsection
7-2-1E of this chapter.
The surcharge shall be levied monthly on properties not complying with
subsection
7-2-1E of this chapter. All properties found during reinspection to have
violated subsection
7-2-1E of this chapter will be subject to the penalty as established by the
city's fee schedule for all months between the two (2) most recent inspections.
All delinquent surcharge payments may be assessed by the city on the property
involved pursuant to Minnesota statutes 444.075, subparagraph 3. (1987 Code;
amd. Ord. 94-2, 2-22-1994; Ord. 98-4, 4-6-1998; Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008; Ord. 2022-12, 5-23-2022)
7-2-12: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this title is invalidated by
any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words, sections and chapters shall not be affected and shall continue in full
force and effect. (1987 Code)
7-2-13: CONFLICT:
All other chapters and parts of other chapters inconsistent or conflicting with
any part of this title are hereby repealed to the extent of such inconsistency
or conflict. (1987 Code)
TITLE 8
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Culverts And Drainage Ditches
8-1-2: Utility And Street Improvements In Undeveloped Areas
8-1-3: Boulevards
8-1-4: Driving On Sidewalks
8-1-5: Removal Of Snow And Ice
8-1-6: Litter In Streets
8-1-7: Vehicles Spilling Materials
8-1-8: Contractors' Operations
8-1-1: CULVERTS AND DRAINAGE DITCHES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivatives, shall have the meanings as stated in
this section.
   DRIVEWAY: A private driveway, private road, or other traveled way giving
access from a public roadway to private property.
   MAINTENANCE: Mowing and/or the removal of brush, litter, debris, or sediment
to sustain the hydraulic capacity and function.
   RECONSTRUCT: To replace in the same location with the same size, shape, or
hydraulic capacity and function.
   RELOCATE OR MODIFY: To change the location, size or shape of the culvert, or
to change drainage such as increase or decrease the hydraulic capacity or
change the hydraulic function, etc.
   B.   Required: There shall be installed in every ditch or drain in, upon or
along any street, alley, driveway, parkway or other public thoroughfare, where
private driveways cross the same, furnishing ingress and egress from adjacent
property to and upon the street, a culvert in accordance with the provisions of
this section and the rules and regulations adopted hereunder.
   C.   Permits: No person shall install, reconstruct, relocate, or modify any
ditch or culvert in, upon or along any street, alley, driveway, parkway or
other public thoroughfare without a permit so to do from the city engineering
department. The permit shall be issued at a charge as established by the city's
fee schedule to the applicant.
   D.   Regulations: The city may prepare regulations in reference to the size,
type, mode of installation and all other matters in reference to the
installation of culverts, which regulations shall be in effect upon approval by
the council. In absence of regulations, the plans, specifications, materials,
and methods of construction must be approved by the city engineer. The
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing Materials (ASTM) shall apply.
   E.   Enforcement: The city shall enforce this section and any regulations
adopted hereunder. The city engineer or public works director, or their
designee, may issue a written notice or a stop work order.
      1.   Written Notice: The city shall notify the property owner in writing
of any violation of this section. Any violation shall, upon written notice by
the city to the property owner, be remedied in accordance with the provisions
of this section within such time as the city designates in the written notice,
which may not be less than ninety (90) days after the date of the notice.
      2.   Stop Work Order: If work is being performed contrary to the terms of
code, the permit, or without a permit, a stop work order shall be issued and
work must immediately cease.
   F.   Ditch And Culvert Maintenance, Relocation, Modification,
Reconstruction, And Improvement:
      1.   Ditch Maintenance And Improvements:
         a.   The ditch adjacent to all occupied private property shall be
maintained, as defined in this section, by the property owner to permit free
and unobstructed flow of water. This provision applies to ditches on public
right of way as well as ditches on private property. This provision does not
apply to ditches under the jurisdiction of other governmental agencies.
         b.   A ditch, located on private property, which is found to be
inadequate for the use and purpose for which it is intended shall, upon written
notice by the city to the owner, be reconstructed by the property owner.
         c.   Relocation or modification of a ditch located on private property
must comply with the provisions of title 3, chapter 8 and section
10-19-6 of this code, and this section and shall be completed at the property
owner's expense.
         d.   The reconstruction, relocation, or modification of a ditch
located within public right of way shall be constructed by the city as a public
improvement.
      2.   Culvert Maintenance And Improvements:
         a.   Culverts installed for the sole purpose of providing access to
private property must provide adequate surface drainage and shall be maintained
by the property owner in such a manner to permit unobstructed flow of water.
Any culvert which is deteriorated, damaged or which is found to be inadequate
for the use and purpose for which it is intended shall, upon written notice by
the city to the owner be reconstructed by the property owner.
         b.   Relocation or modification of a culvert located on private
property must comply with the provisions of title 3, chapter 8 and section
10-19-6 of this code, and this section and shall be completed at the property
owner's expense.
         c.   Improvements to a roadway or drainage ditch, located on public
right of way, shall be constructed by the city as a public improvement. If the
improvement requires the removal of a part of a driveway and/or culvert the
cost of construction of the driveway and replacement of the culvert will be
included in the total cost of the public improvement. The city shall not be
responsible for repair or replacement of stone, decorative pavement, brick,
wood, end walls, head walls, retaining walls, pillars, etc., constructed in the
right of way even if such was approved by the city.
      3.   Petition: A property owner may petition the city to have the costs
for ditch and culvert reconstruction, relocation, and modification paid as a
special assessment if the work is located within public right of way. (Ord.
2015-01, 2-9-2015)
8-1-2: UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS IN UNDEVELOPED AREAS:
   A.   Regulation: Utility and street improvements which benefit real estate
in the city shall conform to the regulations of this section. Utility and
street improvements include the following facilities: storm sewer, sanitary
sewer, water mains, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalk, site drainage,
bikepaths, streetlights, cluster box units and driveway approaches and sewer
and water connections from city mains to property lines and within easements
dedicated for public improvements.
   B.   Specifications And Supervision: All improvements or utilities installed
shall be in accord with the specifications approved by the city engineer and
shall be done under the supervision of the city engineer or authorized
personnel approved by the city engineer.
   C.   Installation By City; Bond: Any person desiring to have utility and
street improvements installed may request the city to install them, subject to
the approval and authorization thereof by the city council and as authorized by
state law. If so approved by the city council, the person requesting the
installation of said utility and street improvements shall supply a bond
approved by the city, running to the city, guaranteeing payment of a minimum of
thirty percent (30%) of the cost of the utility and street improvements
requested or such other higher percent of cost that may be established by the
city council as reasonable and necessary to insure that the costs of the
utilities and street improvements requested are properly secured and paid. The
bond to be supplied the city shall be payable on such terms and conditions as
found by the city council to be reasonable and necessary to ensure that the
costs of the improvements are properly secured and paid. No utilities or street
improvement shall thereafter be installed until the person requesting the same
shall provide the bond as set out above or in lieu thereof shall pay to the
city in cash or guarantee by an irrevocable letter of credit or its equivalent
satisfactory to the city an amount equal to a minimum of thirty percent (30%)
of the costs of the utility and street improvements or equal to such higher
percent as may be established by the city council as reasonable and necessary.
   D.   Exceptions To Bond Requirements: The provisions of subsection C of this
section shall not apply to either:
      1.   Trunk infrastructure, as defined within the respective
specifications established by the engineering department.
      2.   An order for an improvement by the city council on its own
initiative with a vote of four-fifths (4/5) of the full membership thereof,
without the petition of the property owners.
   E.   Assessment: The amount of the special assessments to be assessed
against the property for the utility and street improvements shall be in accord
with state law.
   F.   Installation By Private Owners: Any persons may design or design and
install utility and street improvements at their own expense without resort to
the use of the special assessments procedure authorized by law provided plans
and specifications for the utility or street improvement are submitted to the
city, and when required submitted to the proper officials of other regulatory
authorities, for examination and approval. Design and installation by private
owners must comply with city ordinance, policy and specifications. (Ord. 2016-
15, 8-22-2016)
8-1-3: BOULEVARDS:
   A.   Definitions:
   BOULEVARD OR BERM: That area of ground between the roadway and the sidewalk
or, if there be no sidewalk, it is the area of the ground between the roadway
and the dedicated limits of the street or avenue.
   ROADWAY: That portion of the street or avenue improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   B.   Prohibited Acts Or Encroachments:
      1.   Parking: No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle,
whether attended or unattended, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, upon a sidewalk or boulevard.
      2.   Signs: Any sign or signs or billboard, except official or quasi-
official signs, standing or erected upon a boulevard is a public nuisance, and
may be abated by removing the sign.
      3.   Buildings: No person shall erect or cause to be erected or permit
any building or structure to stand upon the boulevard.
   C.   Permits: Nothing herein shall prohibit the parking of motor vehicles
upon the sidewalk or boulevard or the erection of signs or billboards upon the
boulevard or the maintaining of a building or structure upon the boulevard if
written application is made to the council requesting the privilege of parking
motor vehicles upon the sidewalk or boulevard, or the erection of signs or
billboards upon the boulevard, or the maintaining of a building or structure
upon the boulevard, and the council, by vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the
entire council, grants such permission. (Ord. 222; amd. 1967 Code §25.08)
8-1-4: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall drive any vehicle over, across or upon any sidewalk or curb
except where there are driveway crossings provided. (Ord. 89; amd. 1967 Code
§25.09)
8-1-5: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   From Sidewalks:
      1.   Duty Of Occupant: The occupant of every building fronting upon any
street or avenue, and the owner of any unoccupied lot fronting upon any street
shall clean the sidewalk in front of the building or unoccupied lot of snow and
ice by nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of each day, and cause the same to be kept
clean of snow and ice. (Ord. 94-20, 12-19-1994)
      2.   City Removal: In all cases where snow and ice are not removed from
sidewalks within the time and in the manner as provided in this section, it may
be removed by authorized city personnel, and the necessary expenses thereof,
along with an administrative fee as established by the city's fee schedule,
shall be chargeable against the abutting property. (Ord. 94-20, 12-19-1994;
amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
      3.   Assess Costs, Lien:
         a.   Each year a list shall be made and filed in the office of the
city clerk, of the property so chargeable and assessed, against each lot and
tract separately, stating the owner's name so far as known.
         b.   The city clerk shall give notice by publication in the official
newspaper of the hearing and confirmation of such report and assessment
notifying all persons objecting to appear and present their objections, such
notice to be published once in each week for two (2) consecutive weeks.
         c.   At a regular meeting of the council, or at such meeting as the
hearing and confirmation of such assessment will be adjourned to, the council
shall take up and consider such assessment and shall hear any objection, and
after revising and correcting the same, if necessary so to do, shall approve
and confirm the same.
         d.   The city clerk shall attach to such list a certificate that it is
true and correct as confirmed by the council, and shall file such assessment
list in the city clerk's office. The assessment with interest and penalty shall
be a lien upon the property upon which the assessment is levied from the time
the assessment list is approved by the council, and shall remain a lien until
fully paid, and no mistake in the description of the property or in the name of
the owner shall obviate such lien, provided the property assessed can be
identified by the description in such assessment list. Such assessment shall be
certified to the county auditor by the city clerk to be spread upon the
assessment list of the city and collected with the taxes.
         e.   The city attorney shall, at the direction of the council, bring
suit in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction to recover
the cost of said removal from the owner or occupant of any property abutting on
which walks were cleared.
   B.   Depositing Snow On Streets: No person engaged to move, blow or plow
snow upon or off of any private property or city right of way within the city
shall cause or permit any of the snow so removed, blown or plowed to be
deposited upon any street within the city. The prohibition contained herein
shall apply to the occupants of any such property, their agents, employees or
independent contractors. The occupants of the premises or the persons
requesting the snow to be removed or the persons who are actually removing the
snow shall make suitable arrangements to deposit the removed snow in some place
other than upon the city streets and snow shall not be piled so as to interfere
with the vision of motorists approaching any intersection. Other than from
adjacent sidewalks and driveways, no snow shall be placed upon the boulevards.
(Ord. 94-20, 12-19-1994)
8-1-6: LITTER IN STREETS:
No person shall throw, place or leave upon any street, sidewalk or alley any
waste material. No person shall leave any waste material where it may blow or
be likely to blow upon streets, sidewalks or alleys. (Ord. 188; amd. 1967 Code
§25.12)
8-1-7: VEHICLES SPILLING MATERIALS:
Except where used for street maintenance, no vehicle shall be driven on any
street unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of its
load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom, except
that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction. (Ord. 206; amd.
1967 Code §25.13)
8-1-8: CONTRACTORS' OPERATIONS:
   A.   Dumping And Littering: No contractors shall allow any vehicle to
operate out of any construction site, regardless of whether the same shall be
operated by the contractor, their agents, employees or subcontractors, in such
a manner as to dump, scatter or deposit any rubbish, stones, wire, earth,
ashes, cinders, sawdust, hay, glass, manure, filth, paper, snow, ice, dirt,
grass, leaves, twigs, shrubs, construction waste, garbage or other offensive or
nauseous material on any street, alley or public place. The city is hereby
empowered to order any contractor to take such precautions as deemed necessary
to prevent any such foreign materials from being deposited on the streets,
alleys or public places and to remove all foreign material on the street, alley
or public place. If and in the event any contractor shall fail to comply with
the order of the city, all construction may be ordered stopped.
   B.   Clean Vehicles: No contractor or other person shall permit a vehicle to
enter upon a public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place without first
having its tires and wheels cleaned so as not to litter or soil any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place; and having any material removed from the
interior or exterior or vehicle body which might fall or be deposited upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public place by normal movement of vehicles in
traveling over such places.
   C.   Keep Streets Litter Free: All streets, alleys, sidewalks or public
places adjacent to any building or construction site shall be maintained in a
litter free condition at all times. This shall include such soiling or
littering caused by erosion, landslides or general construction activities at
any such site.
   D.   Liability Of Contractor: Whenever a contractor is engaged in any
construction or maintenance activity, it shall be the contractor's
responsibility to see that the provisions of this section are not violated by
the contractor, the contractor's agents, employees, subcontractors or haulers
of materials and supplies. If more than one contractor or any governmental unit
is involved in work which contributes to the littering of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public places in the same site or area, they shall be
separately and jointly responsible for compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   E.   Cleaning Littered Street: If a street, alley, sidewalk or public place
should become soiled or littered through any of the aforementioned means, the
person responsible shall cause such soiling or littering to be cleaned up
forthwith. If and when the person responsible fails to comply with any order to
clean up or to take such precautions as deemed necessary to prevent foreign
materials from being deposited on any street, alley or public place, then all
ingress and egress to the site or area involved may be stopped until compliance
with the order is effected.
   F.   Haul Routes: Any contractor or subcontractor, before starting
construction or excavation, shall contact the city in regard to haul routes
where all excess material will be disposed of. All haul routes shall be
approved by the city. In the event the contractor or subcontractor fails to
clean any portion of said haul route, said cleaning will be done by the street
department and all such work hours will be charged against the contractor or
subcontractor.
   G.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to
construction work within the barricaded area of work being done in the street
right of way pursuant to a city excavation permit authorizing the same, or to
certain emergency or other work being performed within a barricaded area
pursuant to a city contract or by certain emergency forces, provided that
excavated material stored temporarily within the barricaded area shall not be
scattered or carried or allowed to accumulate outside of such area. (Ord. 397;
amd. 1967 Code §25.14)
CHAPTER 2
OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Building Materials
8-2-2: Vaults And Areaways
8-2-3: Encroachment In Right Of Way
8-2-1: BUILDING MATERIALS:
   A.   Use Of Streets And Sidewalks: No building materials shall be placed
upon the streets or sidewalks except as provided in this section. Building
materials required for use immediately in connection with the construction or
alteration of a building or materials removed in the process of tearing down or
wrecking a building may be placed upon the streets or sidewalks in front of the
building while such work is in progress, subject to the approval of the city.
   B.   Bond: Any person, before so using the street or sidewalk, shall execute
a surety bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to save and keep
harmless the city and all persons from any and all damage that may result by
reason of such occupation of streets or sidewalks; provided, however, that any
person desiring to conduct two (2) or more separate building or wrecking
projects at the same time shall give to the city a surety bond in the sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or such additional sum as the council may
require to save and keep harmless the city and all persons from any and all
damages that may result by reason of such occupation of streets or sidewalks.
The bonds shall be approved by the council.
   C.   Width Of Occupied Space: The maximum width of such occupied space shall
not exceed one-third (1/3) the width of the street, measured between the curbs;
and in no case shall the space within seven feet (7') of the nearest rail of
any railway tracks be occupied by materials which have any connection with a
building or wrecking project. When building or wrecking operations are being
conducted on directly opposite sides of a street at one time, space not to
exceed one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the street, measured between the curbs,
may be occupied by either party conducting such building or wrecking operation;
and a passageway equal to one-half (1/2) the width of the street measured
between the curbs, must be maintained through the center of the street. When
the sidewalk space is occupied for uses above mentioned, a temporary sidewalk
not less than five feet (5') in width shall be provided in the outer portion of
the permissible occupied space of the street, such sidewalk to be provided with
handrails; and if it is deemed necessary, a tight fence at least eight feet
(8') high shall be erected on the building side of the sidewalk to afford
protection to the public. (Ord. 165; amd. Ord. 186; Ord. 190; Ord. 219; Ord.
291; Ord. 311; 1967 Code §25.02)
8-2-2: VAULTS AND AREAWAYS:
   A.   The owner of any property may occupy a space under a public sidewalk
for the purpose of vaults, areaways or similar uses, only upon the approval of
the city. Such space shall be limited to that between the building line and
curb line. In no case shall a vault be under an alley or entrance to the alley
from the street.
   B.   All such vaults, areaways, etc., shall be covered with a reinforced
concrete slab capable of sustaining a live load of two hundred fifty (250)
pounds to the square foot. Areaways in a sidewalk for the admission of light to
cellar or basement windows may be covered with glass, as provided in this code,
provided that such glass covering shall not extend more than four feet (4')
beyond the building line.
   C.   All such vaults, areaways, etc., shall be enclosed by walls of
concrete. The thickness of such walls shall be able to resist safely all
lateral earth and/or water pressure; together with any surcharge loads; but in
no case less than twelve inches (12").
   D.   Areaways, if in a yard, court or alley, may be protected by iron
gratings. Such gratings shall be designed to safely carry a load of four
hundred (400) pounds to the square foot, and shall have netting secured to the
underside to prevent the accumulation of rubbish in such areaway.
   E.   All of the above areaways, vaults, etc., shall be made subject to the
right of the city to demand the surrender of such space when deemed necessary
or advisable. (Ord. 167; amd. 1967 Code §25.03)
8-2-3: ENCROACHMENT IN RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Permit Required: Any encroachment of a private building or use within
the public right of way requires a written permit from the city manager or his/
her designee.
   B.   Application: Application for the permit required by the provisions of
this section shall be made on a form provided by the city.
      1.   The application shall be submitted to the city manager. The city
manager or his/her designee shall examine the application and shall approve the
same unless they find that the application fails to meet the applicable
requirements contained in this chapter or if there is a basis for denying the
application because allowing the encroachment would endanger the health, safety
or welfare of the public or would cause hardship or damage to nearby property
owners.
      2.   If the application is denied, the applicant may, within thirty (30)
days of notice of denial, appeal this decision to the city council.
   C.   Application Review: Factors considered when reviewing an application or
revoking a permit include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The permit holder shall provide proper containers for the collection
of waste and trash and shall be responsible for keeping the outdoor area clean
of garbage, trash, or litter associated with the operation of the permitted
business and shall be responsible for clean up and/or repair of the sidewalk
caused by the use of the area;
      2.   Structures, equipment or use encroachments locating on a sidewalk
shall be located so that a minimum of forty eight inches (48") of unobstructed
sidewalk clearance for pedestrian traffic is provided, or the minimum required
by the Moorhead building code or the Americans with disabilities act, whichever
requirement is more restrictive;
      3.   Outdoor dining and merchandise areas shall be permitted only
adjacent to the building or structure in which the business is located and
shall not be permitted next to the curb of the street. In no event shall
outdoor dining or merchandise areas be permitted in roadways unless approved by
the city council;
      4.   All structures, equipment, use encroachments, devices, furniture,
fencing or other accessories used shall not block regulatory signs, crosswalks,
intersections, fire hydrants or handicap loading zones, shall be sufficiently
lit during times of low light in order to provide for safe pedestrian passage
alongside the areas and shall not impede, endanger or interfere with pedestrian
or vehicular traffic;
      5.   All structures, equipment, use encroachments, devices, furniture,
fencing or other accessories shall be stable and not easily tipped and shall
not include sharp edges, protrusions, or other features which may be hazardous
to the public;
      6.   All structures, equipment, use encroachments, devices, furniture,
fencing or other accessories shall meet a minimum height of twenty eight inches
(28") tall or of sufficient size or height so that safe pedestrian traffic is
not impeded or must comply with the requirements of the Americans with
disabilities act, whichever requirement is more restrictive;
      7.   All structures, equipment, use encroachments, devices, furniture,
fencing or other accessories shall be moved inside the building wherein the
business is located during inclement weather;
      8.   The maintenance, security and upkeep of all structures, equipment,
use encroachments, devices, furniture, fencing or other accessories shall be
the sole responsibility of the permit holder. All fixtures, devices, furniture,
fencing or other accessories shall be clean and well maintained;
      9.   The permit holder shall not have on the premises any bell, siren,
horn, bullhorn or similar loudspeaker or any such device to attract the
attention of possible customers nor shall the permit holder use any such device
to attract attention;
      10.   The permit holder shall comply with all city regulations and other
applicable regulatory agency requirements and regulations including, but not
limited to, the requirements for food service and noise control. The permit
holder shall display in a conspicuous location all required permits and/or
licenses. The permit holder shall continuously maintain the required approvals,
permits and/or licenses;
      11.   Food carts, mobile food units, special event food stands and/or
seasonal food stands may not be located nearer than sixty five feet (65') from
a business that holds a limited restaurant license or a restaurant license
issued by the city health department; provided, however, that said uses may be
located in front of the sponsoring restaurant, the base of commissary
operations for the said unit, or with written permission of all of the owner(s)
of businesses within sixty five feet (65') that hold a restaurant license;
      12.   Any applicant wishing to locate in the right of way adjacent to a
business that is not the sponsoring business must first receive written
permission of all of the owner(s) of businesses within sixty five feet (65') of
the proposed encroachment;
      13.   Any permission hereunder granted and all rights of the permittee
hereunder shall cease at any time that the permit is revoked and all
encroachment shall be removed immediately. The granting of a permit shall in no
way be considered a relinquishment by the city of that portion of said public
right of way, or be of any force or effect beyond the time herein provided.
Additional conditions may be imposed on encroachment permits to protect the
health, safety or welfare of the public or to protect nearby property owners
from hardship or damage or to protect other public interests as determined by
the city manager. (Ord. 2007-11, 6-4-2007)
   D.   Application Fee: Each application for a permit required by the
provisions of this section shall be accompanied by an application fee in an
amount as established by the city's fee schedule, which fee shall be retained
by the city whether or not a permit is issued. Permits only need to be renewed
if the use is altered or if the applicant is informed by the city in writing
that the permit has been canceled. (Ord. 2007-11, 6-4-2007; amd. Ord. 2007-30,
1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   E.   Compliance With Liquor Laws: Those desiring to utilize the space in
conjunction with the issuance of an on-sale liquor (on- sale intoxicating,
wine, club, temporary, and 3.2 percent malt liquor) license must comply with
applicable state liquor laws regarding licensed premises. Such space located
within the public right of way must be "compact and contiguous", attached to
the licensed premises/structure, and subject to review and approval by the
Moorhead police department.
   F.   Term: Unless otherwise provided in the permit, the term of the permit
shall begin and end with the calendar year. For the issuance of a permit for a
period less than a year, the effective date of such permit shall commence with
the date of issuance and expire December 31, unless otherwise provided.
   G.   Investigation: The city manager may, prior to the issuance of any
permit pursuant to this section, refer such application to any department or
advisory committee, including the city council, for the purpose of obtaining
the recommendation of such department or committee with respect to such
application.
   H.   Insurance: The permittee shall, at all times during the duration of the
permit, maintain public liability insurance, naming the city as an additional
insured party, in the amounts of at least the maximum amounts of tort liability
of the city pursuant to statute, with respect to the occupation and use of such
right of way by the permittee, which insurance shall be evidenced by a policy
providing, in part, that such insurance shall not be canceled or terminated by
any party, except upon thirty (30) days' notice in writing to the city of
intent to cancel the policy and if any permittee allows the insurance policy to
lapse without furnishing a new policy in lieu thereof, the city manager shall
initiate proceedings to have the permit revoked and the encroachment removed.
   I.   Responsibility: The applicant shall and agrees to indemnify and save
harmless the city from any and all claims and demands which may arise as a
result of the installation, placement, building, erection, maintenance,
occupation or use of such building, structure or encroachment upon such right
of way. (Ord. 2007-11, 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 3
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Construction And Repair Of Sidewalks
8-3-2: Construction Permits
8-3-3: Mountable Curb And Gutters
8-3-4: Duty To Construct Sidewalk
8-3-5: Regulations Relating To Driveway Approaches And Related Elements
8-3-1: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Notice To Owner; Assessment Of Cost: Whenever it is necessary to repair
any sidewalk, curb, driveway or crossing, a notice shall be prepared, addressed
to the owner of the lot or parts of land requiring the owner to repair the same
to the satisfaction of the City within a time to be fixed in the notice but not
exceeding ten (10) days. In the event the repair is not made according to the
terms of the notice, the City may, as soon as practicable, repair the same and
certify the costs thereof to the City Clerk, and the costs shall be assessed
against the lot or parts of land to be benefited by the repair in accordance
with the City's assessment policy.
   B.   Obstructions Reported: The contractor shall report all obstructions to
the sidewalk such as: 1) waterstop boxes above grade; 2) all poles inside the
sidewalk line; 3) all lampposts inside the sidewalk line; 4) all wooden hydrant
covers; 5) signposts, manholes, utility boxes, hand holes and other
obstructions.
   C.   Notice To City: The contractor shall notify the City before beginning
work upon each sidewalk ordered. The decision of the City as to the manner in
which the work shall be executed and the quality of the work and materials,
shall be final and conclusive.
   D.   Duties Of Contractor:
      1.   Responsibility For Work: The contractors shall have charge of and be
responsible for the entire work until its completion and acceptance. The
contractors must not make an assignment of any contract made under this
section. The contractors shall at all times either be on the work site
themselves or have a competent supervisor there, who must have all powers and
to whom orders, instructions and directions may be given. Properly skilled
workers shall be employed on the work, and the contractors shall dismiss any
employees who may, in the opinion of the City, be negligent of their duties or
perform their work in an improper manner.
      2.   Protection Of Work: All work while in progress must be protected by
the contractor against injury from sun, rain, frost or any other cause. The
finished sidewalk must not be used until in the opinion of the City it has set
sufficiently to receive travel.
      3.   Removal Of Material: When the work is completed, the contractor
shall remove all surplus material, whether old or new, and leave the sidewalk,
gutter and roadway free and unobstructed.
   E.   Work Done Per Specifications: All sidewalks, curbs, driveways and
crossings shall be constructed on the grade and line given by the City and
according to the plans and specifications as designated, and filing of bonds as
required herein, and all persons shall apply to the engineering office for a
permit for all sidewalks, curbs, driveways and crossings, prior to the
commencement of the construction thereof.
   F.   Nonconforming Work: The City may condemn any material or work not in
accordance with this section, and instructions and orders and any material or
work condemned shall be at once removed by the contractor and properly replaced
at the contractor's own expense. If the contractor neglects or refuses to
remove any rejected material or work, or to replace the same with proper
material or work, it shall be removed and replaced by the City at the
contractor's expense and the cost of any removal and replacement shall be
deducted from any money that may be due or may become due the contractor from
the City. (Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-2016)
8-3-2: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, remove or
demolish or to commence the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of
any driveway or public sidewalk within the City without first filing with the
City an application in writing and obtaining a formal permit.
   B.   Applications For Permit:
      1.   Authority To Make Application: Application shall be made by the
owner or lessee or agent of either, or the architect, engineer or builder
employed in connection with the proposed work. If such application is made by a
person other than the owner in fee, it shall be accompanied by a duly verified
affidavit of the owner in fee or the person making the application that the
proposed work is authorized by the owner in fee and that the person making the
application is authorized to make such application.
      2.   Plans To Accompany Application: Applications for permits shall be
accompanied by drawings of the proposed work drawn to scale, showing whatever
detail the City may require.
      3.   Application Form: An application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the City may prescribe. Such application shall contain the full
names and addresses of the applicant and of the owner and, if the owner is a
corporate body, of its responsible officer. The application shall also describe
briefly the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be
required by the City for an intelligent understanding of the work proposed.
      4.   Action On Application: The City shall examine applications for
permits within a reasonable time after filing. If, after examination, no
objections are found to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be
in compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto and the proposed
construction or work will be safe, such application shall be approved and a
permit shall be issued for the proposed work as soon as practicable. If the
examination reveals otherwise, the City shall reject such application and note
the findings in a written report to be attached to the application and deliver
a copy to the applicant. (Ord. 442, 1-5-1970)
   C.   Contractors' Permit; Bond: No person shall perform work without
obtaining a contractors' permit or license and filing with the Engineering
Department a bond in the penal sum set by the annual fee ordinance adopted by
the City Council. (Ord. 2008-30, 1-12-2009)
   D.   Permit Fees: The fees for obtaining the permit herein contemplated
shall be at the rate as established by the City's fee schedule per linear foot
for new and replacement sidewalks and curb and gutter replacement, and a fee as
established by the City's fee schedule for each driveway. The permit having
been so issued, the owner of the permit may remove existing sidewalks and/or
driveways and cause the replacement thereof, as well as initial construction.
Should any contractor fail to procure such a permit, upon discovery thereof,
the City shall assess the contractor for a fee equal to the foregoing schedule
plus a fee as established by the City's fee schedule. (Ord. 442, 1-5-1970; amd.
Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: A permit under which no work is commenced within
three (3) months after issuance shall expire by limitation and a new permit
shall be secured before work is started, unless the permit is otherwise
extended by Council.
   F.   Posting Of Permit: A copy of the permit shall be kept on the premises
for public inspection during the prosecution of the work and until the
completion thereof.
   G.   Compliance With Permit: All work performed under a permit issued by the
City shall conform to the approved application and plans and approved
amendments thereto.
   H.   Supervision Of Work: The performance of all work described in this
section shall be under the supervision of the City and such work shall comply
with all grades established by the City and all other requirements of the City
relating to construction of that type. No work shall be commenced prior to an
inspection being made by authorized City personnel.
   I.   Nonconforming Work Or Materials: Any concrete work performed that does
not meet City specifications for sidewalk and driveway construction shall be
removed and replaced at the expense of the owner of the property if such a
course of action is determined to be necessary by the City.
   J.   Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The City may deny, suspend
or revoke any permit as defined by this chapter in accordance with section
2-1-10 of this Code.
   K.   Penalty: Any persons violating the provisions of this section shall be
penalized in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this Code. Each day such a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
The owner or tenants of any building, structure, premises or part thereof, and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 442, 1-5-1970)
8-3-3: MOUNTABLE CURB AND GUTTERS:
   A.   Definition: The term "mountable curb and gutters" as used herein is one
so designed and constructed that it permits crossing by motor vehicles.
   B.   Construction Authorized: Whenever owners of over fifty percent (50%) of
the land to be benefited by the construction petition for mountable curb and
gutter, and all other requirements for said construction have been met, the
Council may grant the petition for mountable curb and gutter.
   C.   Access Provisions:
      1.   No Increase In Access Rights: No owners or occupants of the property
fronting on the mountable curb shall have their right of access to the public
right-of-way increased solely on the basis of the construction of the mountable
curb and gutter.
      2.   Location And Width Of Access: As a part of the application for any
building permit or application for use, the applicants shall include their
request for the number, size and location of accesses; and shall include in
their application, plans and specifications to prevent access by motor vehicles
at all other points.
      3.   Change Of Accesses: Any property owner desiring a change in location
of accesses, size of accesses or method of preventing motor vehicle traffic
over nonaccess areas, shall make an application for building permits. In the
event that there are considerations beyond the authority of the official
issuing building permits, the matter shall be resolved by the Council.
   D.   Enforcement And Applicability: The City shall enforce this section in
the same manner as ordinances relating to building codes are enforced 1 . This
section is intended to apply to all existing and future mountable curb and
gutters. In the event that it is determined that this section cannot be applied
to existing curb and gutters, it nevertheless shall apply to curb and gutters
constructed after the passage of this section.
   E.   Penalties: Any persons violating any provision of this section shall,
upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with section
1-4-2 of this Code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation
occurring hereunder. (Ord. 510, 7-16-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this Code.
8-3-4: DUTY TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section the following term, phrase,
word and its derivatives, shall have the meaning as stated in this section.
    SIDEWALK: A walkway for pedestrians at the side of a street or road,
excluding paths or trails installed for a bikeway or pedestrianway as defined
in section
11-1-5 of this Code.
   B.   Policy: It is the policy of the City of Moorhead that sidewalks be
constructed along both sides of all new streets and within new cul-de-sacs. As
specified in this section, the City also may require sidewalks in older
subdivisions, or other places where sidewalks do not now exist, even if those
sidewalks were not previously required.
   C.   Properties Included Within A Developer's Agreement With A Sidewalk
Plan: A developer, in connection with platting a new subdivision, or replatting
a subdivision, shall submit a sidewalk plan for approval by the Planning
Commission and City Council, which plan shall be incorporated into a
developer's agreement for that plat. Properties which are included within a
developer's agreement on file with the City shall construct sidewalks as
outlined in this section. Sidewalk not installed within the parameters outlined
within the developer's agreement may be installed by the City as outlined
within the applicable developer's agreement.
      1.   The owner of any building constructed in the City shall construct
sidewalks along the street of its front yard in accordance with the approved
sidewalk plan. If the approved sidewalk plan illustrates the placement of
sidewalks on one side of the street or areas with no sidewalks, the requirement
of this section will not apply to those areas where sidewalk is not required.
      2.   For corner lots, the sidewalk along the side yard of the lot and
pedestrian ramps at the intersection will be constructed in accordance with the
sidewalk plan by the City at the time the adjacent street is constructed, and
the cost of such sidewalk and ramps will be assessed as part of the street
district in accordance with City policy. Alternatively, sidewalks along the
side yard of lots and pedestrian ramps will be constructed by the City as part
of an improvement district and assessed according to City policy.
      3.   Construction of front yard sidewalks on lots covered by this section
shall normally be completed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
for any building constructed on such lots. Provided, however, the building
official may issue a certificate of occupancy, even if the required sidewalk is
not completed, if the building permit applicant presents proof to the City that
there is a contract in place for the construction of the sidewalk, or if the
owner of the lot has filed a petition requesting the City to install such
sidewalk and to assess the cost of such installation against the property.
If the building permit applicant has submitted proof of a contract to construct
the sidewalk and the sidewalk is not constructed either: a) within sixty (60)
days of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy, or b) within sixty (60)
days after the first day a sidewalk permit is issued for the next construction
season for a certificate of occupancy issued after the close of the
construction season, then the City may contract to install the sidewalk and the
building permit applicant will be invoiced for all associated costs incurred.
In addition, if the contractor or subcontractor who had the contract to
construct the sidewalk fails to construct the sidewalk in the time frame
required, that contractor or subcontractor may face a suspension of its right
to be issued further building and/or sidewalk permits in the City for a period
up to one year.
   D.   Properties Not Included Within A Developer's Agreement Or With No
Documented Sidewalk Plan: The following standards shall apply to properties
when an improvement project is planned and applies to properties which are not
included within a developer's agreement or do not have a sidewalk plan on file
with the City:
      1.   If the area does not currently have sidewalks, sidewalks shall be
constructed on both sides of the street.
      2.   If the area has existing, continuous sidewalks on one side of the
street, no additional sidewalks will be constructed except as provided within
subsection D6 of this section.
      3.   If the area has existing sidewalks, sidewalk repairs may be
completed as part of the improvement project at the discretion of the City and
assessed according to City policy.
      4.   The City Engineer may design sidewalk projects which do not comply
with the standards in this section under the following circumstances:
         a.   Interference with utilities, structures, boulevard trees or other
obstructions.
         b.   Insufficient area, including but not limited to right-of- way and
presence of drainage facilities or other utilities.
         c.   Other obstructions or conditions which make construction of
sidewalk incompatible with construction standards.
      5.   The property owners of the abutting lot frontage may petition for a
deviation of the standards in this section. If new sidewalk areas are proposed,
the City will notify the abutting lot owners. If a petition is submitted to the
City, which shall include the names and addresses of a minimum of seventy five
percent (75%) of the abutting lot owners, the sidewalks will not be
constructed. If less than seventy five percent (75%) of the property owners of
the abutting lot frontage sign the petition, the sidewalk will be constructed.
This provision does not apply to facilities with community- wide significance
or facilities required to comply with Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA)
standards.
      6.   The property owners of the abutting lot frontage may present a
petition to the Planning Commission and City Council to establish a
neighborhood sidewalk plan or an amendment to an existing sidewalk plan. If the
plan does not incorporate sidewalk on both sides of all streets, the provisions
of subsection 11-5-8B of this Code shall apply to the Planning Commission and
City Council consideration of the petition. If a sidewalk plan is approved, the
provisions of subsection B of this section shall apply to the construction of
sidewalks.
   E.   Repair Of Sidewalks: The owner of any lot or parcel of land adjoining
any street in the City shall maintain in good repair sidewalks along the front
yard street(s) as have been previously constructed. Costs associated with
replacement of front yard sidewalks will be assessed according to City policy.
   F.   Construction Standards:
      1.   Sidewalks must be constructed in accordance with all of the
requirements of this chapter and in accordance with Americans With Disabilities
Act (ADA) standards and the current sidewalk specifications available at the
Office of the City Engineer.
      2.   All sidewalks built on public right-of-way within the City must be
built on the line and grade set by the City Engineer or his designee. Every
person, firm or corporation before undertaking any sidewalk construction,
reconstruction or repair must request the City Engineer or his designee to set
the line and grade, and obtain a permit therefor and pay the necessary fee
required by the City. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-22-2018)
8-3-5: REGULATIONS RELATING TO DRIVEWAY APPROACHES AND RELATED ELEMENTS:
The following regulations apply to all driveway approaches and related elements
constructed within the City of Moorhead: (Ord. 2006-1, 3-6-2006)
   A.   All residential driveway approaches and related elements within the
road right-of-way must be at least six inches (6") thick, and must be no less
than nine feet (9') wide at the sidewalk line, and must be so located so as to
provide access to a parking space within the property to be served. All
commercial and industrial driveway approaches and related elements within the
road right-of-way must be at least seven inches (7") thick.
   B.   Driveways must be constructed in accordance with all of the
requirements of this section and in accordance with the current driveway
specifications available at the Office of the City Engineer.
   C.   The width of residential driveways, other than attached single-family
lots, may not exceed one-half (½) of the frontage of the lot on the street to
which the driveway will connect or thirty feet (30'), whichever is less. For
attached single- family lots, the driveway may not exceed the width of the
building on the lot, or thirty feet (30'), whichever is less. Exception: Lots
that measure one hundred feet (100') or more in lot width may have up to two
driveway approaches not to exceed a total combined width of forty feet (40').
In commercial and industrial areas the driveway width may not exceed one-half
(½) of the frontage of the lot on the street to which the driveway will
connect, or forty feet (40'), whichever is less. Provided, for commercial and
industrial driveways, upon approval of the City Engineer, or his designee,
driveways may be constructed up to one-half (½) of the frontage of the lot on
the street to which the driveway will connect, even if it exceeds forty feet
(40').
   D.   The maximum width of the driveway shall be measured at the intersection
of the sidewalk. If there are two (2) driveway accesses on the same lot, the
combined total driveway width of both driveways may not exceed the width
restrictions set out above except for lots in all RLD and RMD-1 Zones with
frontage on two (2) local streets in which case the width restrictions set out
above apply individually to a driveway to each local street. All lots in all
RLD Zones and the RMD-1 Zone may have only one driveway on the same street,
except for multi-family units of nine (9) or more units may have two (2)
driveways on the same street. Single-family homes in any zoning district are
limited to one driveway on the same street.
   E.   A driveway may be no closer than twenty feet (20') from the right-of-
way line of a street with a functional classification of local, and no closer
than thirty feet (30') from the right-of-way line of a street with a functional
classification of collector or arterial. No driveways, however, will be
permitted to enter into a designated right turn lane on any street.
   F.   Driveway spacing shall not be less than six hundred sixty feet (660')
on collector streets and one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') on
arterial streets without the approval of the Planning Commission and City
Engineer. (Ord. 2012-14, 8-27-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-10, 4-25-2022)
CHAPTER 4
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-4-1: Findings, Purpose, And Intent
8-4-2: Election To Manage The Public Rights-Of-Way
8-4-3: Definitions
8-4-4: Administration
8-4-5: Registration And Right-Of-Way Occupancy
8-4-6: Registration Information
8-4-7: Reporting Obligations
8-4-8: Permit Requirements
8-4-9: Permit Applications
8-4-10: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
8-4-11: Permit Fees
8-4-12: Right-Of-Way Patching And Restoration
8-4-13: Joint Applications
8-4-14: Supplementary Applications
8-4-15: Other Obligations
8-4-16: Denial Of Permit
8-4-17: Installation Requirements
8-4-18: Inspection
8-4-19: Work Done Without A Permit
8-4-20: Supplementary Notification
8-4-21: Revocation Of Permits
8-4-22: Mapping Data
8-4-23: Location And Relocation Of Facilities
8-4-24: Preexcavation Facilities Location
8-4-25: Damage To Other Facilities
8-4-26: Right-Of-Way Vacation
8-4-27: Indemnification And Liability
8-4-28: Abandoned And Transferred Facilities
8-4-29: Appeal
8-4-30: Protection Of Work Within The Right-Of-Way
8-4-31: Right-Of-Way Standards And Procedures
8-4-32: Preservation Of Monuments
8-4-33: Severability
8-4-34: Penalties
8-4-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
To provide for the health, safety and welfare of its citizens, and to ensure
the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way, the
City strives to keep its rights-of- way in a state of good repair and free from
unnecessary encumbrances.
Accordingly, the City hereby enacts this chapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the
placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its
rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to
complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal agencies. Under this
chapter, persons excavating or working within the rights-of-way will bear
financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter provides for
recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using the public
rights-of-way.
This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws, chapter
123, substantially codified in Minnesota Statutes sections 237.16, 237.162,
237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and the other laws governing
applicable rights of the City and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall
also be interpreted consistent with Minnesota Rules 7819.0050-7819.9950 where
possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot be interpreted
consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most consistent with
the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is intended. This chapter
shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the City
to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the public. This information can be found at the public library.
(Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the City hereby elects, pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes 237.163 subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply in this chapter. References hereafter to
"sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this
chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms whether or not capitalized.
ABANDONED FACILITY: A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected
from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is
in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned unless declared so
by the right-of-way user.
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or work within a right-
of-way.
CITY: The City of Moorhead, Minnesota. For purposes of section
8-4-27 of this chapter, City means its elected officials, officers, employees
and agents.
COMMISSION: The State Public Utilities Commission.
CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY: A crowded condition in the public right- of-way that
occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing underground facilities
does not allow for construction of new underground facilities without using
hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities in conformance with
Minnesota Statutes, section 216D.04, subd. 3, over a continuous length in
excess of five hundred feet (500').
CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND: Any of the following forms of security provided
at permittee's option:
   A.   Individual project bond;
   B.   Cash deposit;
   C.   Security of a form listed or approved under Minnesota Statutes section
15.73, subd. 3;
   D.   Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the City;
   E.   Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the City;
   F.   A blanket bond for projects within the City, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the City.
DEGRADATION: A decrease in the useful life of infrastructure within the right-
of-way caused by excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in
the need to reconstruct such infrastructure earlier than would be required if
the excavation or disturbance did not occur.
DEGRADATION COST: Subject to Minnesota Rules 7819.1100, means the cost to
achieve a level of restoration as determined by the City at the time the permit
is issued based on City standards and specifications, not to exceed the maximum
restoration shown in standard plates 1 to 13, set forth in Minnesota Rules,
parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
DEGRADATION FEE: The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by the
City to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of the
right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation cost.
DELAY PENALTY: The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in right-
of-way excavation, patching, or restoration as established by permit.
DEPARTMENT: The Engineering Department of the City.
DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR: Any person authorized by the City to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this chapter.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Engineering Department of the City, or his or her
designee.
EMERGENCY: A condition that: a) poses a danger to life or health or of a
significant loss of property; or b) requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
EQUIPMENT: Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
EXCAVATE/EXCAVATION: To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or
penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
EXCAVATION AREA: The area affected by any excavation activity, including the
staging area for storage of equipment and materials, located in either the
roadway or boulevard.
FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
FIVE YEAR PROJECT PLAN: Shows projects adopted by the City for construction
within the next five (5) years.
HIGH DENSITY UTILITY CORRIDOR: A designated portion of the public right-of-way
within which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and
competing facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a
common conduit system or other common structure.
INFRASTRUCTURE: A system of improvements installed to provide basic services to
properties, including transportation, utilities and other services.
Infrastructure includes, but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks, trails,
driveways, utility mains and services, utility poles, cables and conduit,
utility boxes, turf/landscaping, and all appurtenances necessary to provide and
maintain services.
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
MANAGEMENT COSTS: The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-of-
way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying permit applications; inspecting
job sites and restoration projects; maintaining, supporting, protecting, or
moving user facilities during right-of-way work; determining the adequacy of
right-of-way restoration; restoring work inadequately performed after providing
notice and the opportunity to correct the work; and revoking right-of-way
permits. Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-
of-way user for the use of the right-of-way, the fees and cost of litigation
relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session Laws 1997, chapter 123;
Minnesota Statutes section 237.162 or 237.163, or any ordinance enacted under
those sections, or the City fees and costs related to appeals taken pursuant to
section
8-4-29 of this chapter.
NOTIFY: To give formal notice of work or intentions. This can be done by mail,
phone, fax, e-mail, or in person.
PATCH OR PATCHING: A method of pavement restoration to repair an area of
excavated roadway. A patch consists of: a) the compaction of the subbase and
aggregate base, and b) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a
minimum of two feet (2') beyond the edges of the excavation area in all
directions.
PAVEMENT: Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-way
and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
PERMIT: Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in Minnesota Statutes,
section 237.162.
PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by an applicant to cover the costs as
provided in section
8-4-11 of this chapter.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit to excavate a right-of-way has been
granted by the City under this chapter.
PERSON: An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this State,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
PROBATION: The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions of
this chapter.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD: One year from the date that a person has been notified in
writing that they have been put on probation.
REGISTRANT: Any person who: a) has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right-of-way, or b) in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the
right-of-way.
RESTORATION COST: The amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to City standards and
specifications.
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right- of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition that existed before excavation. Restoration includes all items
necessary to complete the work, including but not limited to, labor, equipment,
materials, traffic control, watering and such other items as are necessary to
restore damaged infrastructure.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
cartway, bicycle lane or public sidewalk in which the City has an interest,
including other dedicated rights- of-way for travel purposes and utility
easements of the City. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves above a
right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire telecommunications or
broadcast service.
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may install or repair equipment or otherwise work in
the public right-of-way. An excavation permit allows the holder to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in such permit. A wireless
telecommunications facility permit allows the holder to install and maintain
equipment within a portion of right-of-way as described in such permit.
RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: a) A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, section 237.162, subd. 4; or b) a person owning or
controlling a facility in the right-of-way that is used or intended to be used
for providing utility service, and who has a right under law, franchise,
ordinance, or City policy to use the public right-of-way.
SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE: Includes: a) those services provided by a public
utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes section 216B.02, subds. 4 and 6; b)
services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including transporting of
voice or data information; c) services of a cable communications systems as
defined in Minnesota Statutes chapter 238; d) natural gas services; e) electric
energy or telecommunications services provided by the City; f) services
provided by a cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota
Statutes, chapter 308A; and g) water, sewer, steam, geothermal cooling or
heating services.
STANDARD PLATES AND RIGHT-OF-WAY DETAILS: The details of construction methods
and practices that are to be followed when working in and restoring the right-
of-way.
SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate more of the right-
of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already been issued.
TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A person owning or controlling a facility
in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the right-of-
way that is used or is intended to be used for transporting telecommunication
or other voice or data information. For purposes of this chapter, a cable
communication system defined and regulated under Minnesota Statutes chapter
238, and telecommunication activities related to providing natural gas or
electric energy services whether provided by a public utility as defined in
Minnesota Statutes section 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power
agency organized under Minnesota Statutes chapters 453 and 453A, or a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter
308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this
chapter.
TEMPORARY SURFACE: The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature until the pavement is removed and
replaced as a permanent patch.
TRENCH: An excavation in the pavement or boulevard for installation of utility
services.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: A tangible asset used to provide wireless
telecommunication or data services, including all antennas, support devices,
equipment including ground equipment, associated cables and attachments. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director is the principal City official responsible for the administration
of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances related thereto.
The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-
26-2018)
8-4-5: REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Registration: Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or use
the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-of-
way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the City. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
   B.   Registration Prior To Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   C.   Exceptions: Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a City ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings in the area of the right- of-way between their property and
the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard plantings shall not
be deemed to use or occupy the right-of-way, and shall not be required to
obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements for planting or
maintaining such boulevard plantings under this chapter. However, nothing
herein relieves a person from complying with the provisions of the Minnesota
Statutes chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-6: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   A.   Information Required: The information provided to the City at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Each registrant's name, Gopher One Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      2.   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      3.   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         a.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the City;
         b.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right-of- way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property;
         c.   Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages;
         d.   Requiring that the City be notified thirty (30) days in advance
of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         e.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by the City
in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
      4.   The City may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      5.   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under Minnesota Statutes as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      6.   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable State or
Federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other State or Federal agency.
   B.   Notice Of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes immediately following the date on which the registrant has knowledge of
any change. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-7: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Operations: Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 15 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the City. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations of rights-of-way.
The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next year project"); and
      2.   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated beginning
and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five (5) years following
the next calendar year (in this section, a "5 year project").
The term "project" in this section shall include both next year projects and
five (5) year projects.
By January 1 of each year the City will have available for inspection in the
City's office a composite list of all projects of which the City has been
informed of the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for keeping
themselves informed of the current status of this list.
Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project in its list
of next year projects, and must notify the City in writing and all other
registrants of all such changes in said list. The list of other registrants
will be provided by the City in such instances. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
a registrant may at any time join in a next year project of another registrant
listed by the other registrant.
   B.   Additional Next Year Projects: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-
2018)
8-4-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may excavate or work in any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the City to do so. A permit is required by a registrant
to excavate or work in that part of the right-of-way described in such permit
and to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-
way by placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      1.   Excavation/Boring/Trenching Permit: An excavation permit is required
by the registrant to excavate that part of the right-of- way described in each
permit and to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the
right-of-way by placing facilities therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified in the permit.
      2.   Wireless Telecommunications Permit: A wireless telecommunications
permit is required by the registrant in order to install a new wireless support
structure, replace an existing wireless support structure, or attach a wireless
telecommunication facility to an existing wireless support structure (including
public utility structure) in the public right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or work in the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless: 1) such person makes a
supplementary application for another permit before the expiration of the
initial permit, and 2) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   C.   Delay Penalty: In accordance with Minnesota Rules 7819.1000 subp. 3 and
notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the City shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution.
   D.   Permit Display: Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-
28-2019)
8-4-9: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Application for a permit is made to the City. Permit applications shall
contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with the
requirements of the following provisions:
   A.   Registration With City: Registration with the City pursuant to this
chapter.
   B.   Completed Application: Submission of a completed permit application
form, including all required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the
location and area of the proposed project and the location of all known
existing and proposed facilities.
   C.   Payment Of Money: Payment of money due the City for:
      1.   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, if applicable, and other
management costs;
      2.   Prior excavations;
      3.   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City because
of applicant's prior excavations of the rights-of-way or any emergency actions
taken by the City;
      4.   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
   D.   Posting Security: Payment of disputed amounts due the City by posting
security or depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the amount owing.
   E.   Posting Performance Bond: Posting an additional or larger construction
performance bond for additional facilities when applicant requests a permit to
install additional facilities and the City deems the existing construction
performance bond inadequate under applicable standards.
   F.   Contractors' Permit; Bond: No person shall perform work within City
right-of-way without obtaining a contractors' permit or license and filing with
the Engineering Department a bond in the penal sum set by the Annual Fee
Ordinance adopted by the City Council. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-10: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Permit Issuance: If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City shall issue a permit.
   B.   Conditions: The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance
of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-11: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Excavation Permit Fee: The City shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      1.   The City management costs;
      2.   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   B.   Wireless Telecommunication Facility Permit Fee: The City shall
establish a wireless telecommunication facility permit fee in an amount
sufficient to recover the following costs:
      1.   The City management costs;
      2.   Annual rental costs;
      3.   Annual maintenance costs;
      4.   Annual electrical usage costs;
      5.   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   C.   Payment Of Permit Fees: No permit shall be issued without payment of
all permit fees.
   D.   Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
has revoked for a breach as stated in section
8-4-21 of this chapter are not refundable.
   E.   Application To Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise. (Ord. 2018-03,
2-26-2018)
8-4-12: RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION:
   A.   Timing: The work to be done under the permit, and the patching and
restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not
be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permittee or when
work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under section
8-4-15 of this chapter.
   B.   Patch And Restoration: Permittee shall patch its own work. The City may
choose either to have the permittee restore the right- of-way or to restore the
right-of-way itself.
      1.   City Restoration: If the City restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If, following
such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling,
the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, all
costs associated with correcting the defective work.
      2.   Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right-of- way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for a permit post a construction
performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Rules
7819.3000.
   C.   Standards: The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the City and
shall comply with Minnesota Rules 7819.1100. Failure to comply with City and
State standards as outlined in this Code will result in enforcement in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and section
1-4-2 of this Code.
   D.   Duty To Correct Defects: The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Permittee, upon
notification from the City, shall correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the City. Said work shall be completed
within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the City, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances beyond
the permittee's control or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under section
8-4-15 of this chapter.
   E.   Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in a timely manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City, at its option, may do such work. In that event, the permittee shall pay
to the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the
right-of-way, including management costs. If permittee fails to pay as
required, the City may exercise its rights under the construction performance
bond. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-13: JOINT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or work in the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   B.   Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same excavation,
which the City does not perform, may share in the payment of the permit fee. In
order to obtain a joint permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to
the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their applications.
   C.   City Projects: Registrants, who join in a scheduled excavation
performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint operation by two (2) or
more registrants or a single application, shall secure a permit and pay fifty
percent (50%) of the excavation fee, and degradation fee if applicable. The
portion of the fee to be paid is fifty percent (50%) of the normal fee(s)
unless the City determines that a higher or lower fee is more equitable based
on the work being performed by the City and other permittee(s). (Ord. 2018-03,
2-26-2018)
8-4-14: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Limitation On Area: A permit is valid only for the area of the right-
of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside the area
specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee which
determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
excavated must, before working in that greater area: 1) make application for a
permit extension and pay any additional fees required thereby, and 2) be
granted a new permit or permit extension.
   B.   Limitation On Dates: A permit is valid only for the dates specified in
the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or,
except as provided herein, continue working after the end date. If a permittee
does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply for a new permit
for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit or an extension of
the old permit before working after the end date of the previous permit. This
supplementary application must be submitted before the permit end date. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-15: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Other Laws: Obtaining a permit does not relieve
permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses, and
authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable rule,
law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of local,
State and Federal laws, including Minnesota Statutes 216D.01-.09 (Gopher One
Call Excavation Notice System). A permittee shall perform all work in
conformance with all applicable codes and established rules and regulations,
and is responsible for all work done in the right- of-way pursuant to its
permit, regardless of who does the work.
   B.   Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way excavation may be done when seasonally prohibited or when
conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   C.   Interference With Right-Of-Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-16: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and conditions
of this chapter or, if the City determines that the denial is necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-17: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota Rules
7819.1100 and other applicable State and local requirements, insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 and 237.163.
(Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-18: INSPECTION:
   A.   Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the City for final inspection.
   B.   Site Inspection: Permittee shall notify the City in advance of
performing the work, and shall keep the City apprised of the schedule of the
work so that the City may make inspections necessary to verify that permittee
is complying with all of the permit requirements.
   C.   Authority Of Director:
      1.   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      2.   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to
section
8-4-21 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-19: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director, or his or her designee, of any event regarding its facilities which
it considers to be an emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever
actions are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two (2) business days
after the occurrence of the emergency the registrant shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of
the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter
for the actions it took in response to the emergency. Any registrant who fails
to obtain a permit within two (2) business days after the occurrence of an
emergency shall pay double the normal fee for the permit.
If the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's facilities,
the City will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency by calling all emergency
numbers provided by permittee. In any event, the City may take whatever action
it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be
borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   B.   Nonemergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, excavates or works in a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
Code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-20: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
If the excavation or work in the right-of-way begins later or ends sooner than
the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of the accurate
information as soon as this information is known. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-21: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Substantial Breach: The City reserves its right, as provided herein, to
revoke any permit, without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of
the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any
material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the permit;
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the permit,
or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon the City
or its citizens;
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
permit;
      4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee's control; or
      5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to section
8-4-18 of this chapter.
   B.   Written Notice Of Breach: If the City determines that the permittee has
committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the City shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   C.   Response To Notice Of Breach: Within twenty four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the City with a
plan, acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure
to so contact the City, or permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   D.   Cause For Probation: From time to time, the City may establish a list
of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place the
permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to, working
out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way outside of the
permit authorization.
   E.   Automatic Revocation: If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   F.   Reimbursement Of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney fees
incurred in connection with such revocation. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-22: MAPPING DATA:
   A.   Information Required: Each registrant and permittee, upon request of
the City, shall provide mapping information required by the City in accordance
with Minnesota Rules 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
   B.   As-Built Information: Each registrant shall document and provide as-
built plan and profile information at the conclusion of any project occupying
City rights-of-way. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-23: LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Placement, Location And Relocation: Placement, location, and relocation
of facilities must comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with
Minnesota Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do
not limit authority otherwise available to cities. With notice, the City may
require facilities to be relocated. All costs associated with the placement,
location and relocation of a facility will be the duty of the facility owner.
   B.   Corridors: The City may assign specific area within the right- of-way,
or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All permits issued by the City
involving the installation or replacement of facilities shall designate the
proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the City shall, no later than at the time of
the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities are
located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-way,
unless this requirement is waived by the City for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the registrant.
   C.   Nuisance: One year after the passage of this chapter, any facilities
found in a right-of-way that have not been registered shall be deemed to be a
nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to, abating the nuisance or taking
possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-way to a usable
condition.
   D.   Limitation Of Space: To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the City shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the City shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future City plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-24: PREEXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION:
In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes
216D.01-.09 (One Call Excavation Notice System) before the start date of any
right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the
area to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all
said facilities. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-25: DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES:
When the City does work or plans to do work in the right-of-way and determines
that a registrant's facilities are either in the way, or pose an obstruction to
the City's work, the City shall notify the local representative of the
registrant as early as is reasonably possible. The registrant shall, in a
timely manner, do whatever work is necessary to maintain, support, or move a
registrant's facilities to protect it while the City completes its work. The
costs associated therewith shall be the responsibility of the registrant. If
the registrant requests and/or authorizes the City to complete the work to
maintain, support or move the facilities, the City will invoice the cost of
that work to the registrant, and said invoice must be paid within thirty (30)
days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities
damages. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the City's
response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-26: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION:
   A.   Reservation Of Right: If the City vacates a right-of-way which contains
the facilities of a registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-
of-way are governed by Minnesota Rules 7819.3200. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-27: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By registering with the City, or by accepting a permit under this chapter a
registrant or permittee shall, to the extent permitted by law, indemnify and
hold the City harmless against any and all claims of liability or loss from
personal injury or property damage resulting from, arising out of, or in any
way related to the use and/or occupancy of the City's right-of-way by the
registrant, its employees, contractors or agents, except to the extent such
claims or damages may be due to or caused by the willful misconduct of the
City, or its employees, contractors or agents and agrees to defend and
indemnify the City in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Rules
7819.1250. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-28: ABANDONED AND TRANSFERRED FACILITIES:
   A.   Discontinued Operations: A registrant which has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide
information satisfactory to the City that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   B.   Removal: Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the City. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-29: APPEAL:
A right-of-way user that: a) has been denied registration; b) has been denied a
permit; c) has had permit revoked; or d) believes that the fees imposed are
invalid, may submit a written request to have the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition reviewed by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely
written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City
Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing
and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the
decision. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-30: PROTECTION OF WORK WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY:
The permittee shall be responsible for barricading the work within the right-
of-way in conformance with the current version of the Manual On Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) as adopted by the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
   A.   Protective Measures And Routing Of Traffic:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every person performing work in or upon any
public place or right-of-way, to place and maintain barricades and warning
devices necessary for the safety of the general public. Warning signs shall be
placed far enough in advance of the construction operation to alert traffic
within a public street, and cones or other devices shall be placed to channel
traffic. All safety precautions and traffic-control measures shall conform to
the current requirements as specified in the latest edition of the Uniform
Traffic Control Manual as adopted by the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
      2.   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that, during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions, as near normal as
possible, shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. Adequate
pedestrian passageways shall be maintained.
      3.   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two (2) lanes of
vehicular traffic at all street intersections, where possible. If any
excavation is made across any public street, alley, trail, sidewalk or
established crosswalk, adequate crossings through or around the work zone shall
be maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians where possible. Where it is not
possible to maintain traffic through the work zone, the permittee shall detour
traffic using signage in accordance with the MUTCD and a detour plan as
approved by the Director or his designee.
      4.   The City may permit the closing of streets and alleys for a
prescribed period of time. The City may require that the permittee give
notification to various public agencies and to the general public before
approval becomes valid. In specific instances, even though the street may not
be closed, the permittee may also be required to give such notice.
   B.   Protection Of Adjoining Property: The permittee shall at all times
preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing adequate
support and taking other necessary measures. The permittee shall, at its own
expense, shore up and protect all buildings, walls, fences or other property
likely to be damaged during the progress of the work and shall be responsible
for all damage to public or private property resulting from said work. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-31: RIGHT-OF-WAY STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
The following procedures will apply except to the extent they are in conflict
with Minnesota Rules 7819.0050 - 7819.9950 or other applicable statutes, rules,
and ordinances.
   A.   Care Of Excavated Material: All excavated material piled adjacent to
the trench or in any street shall be maintained in such a manner as not to
endanger those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using the
streets and adjoining property. The City may require the permittee to remove
the excavated material from the work site. It shall be the permittee's
responsibility to secure the necessary permission and make all necessary
arrangements (permits, plans, etc.) for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   B.   Noise, Dust And Debris: Each permittee shall conduct and carry out work
in such a manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the
general public and occupants of neighboring property. In the performance of the
work, the permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce, to the full
extent practicable, noise, dust and unsightly debris. Between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., the permittee shall not
use, except with the express written permission of the City, or in case of an
emergency as herein otherwise provided, any tool, appliance or equipment
producing noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of
occupants of the neighboring property.
   C.   Breaking Through Pavement (Except If Inconsistent With Subsection 8-4-
12C Of This Chapter):
      1.   Heavy-duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the City when
their use may endanger existing substructures or other property.
      2.   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
      3.   Unstable pavement shall be removed over undermined areas and over
breaks and the restoration shall be treated as part of the main excavation.
      4.   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly
aligned with the center line of the trench.
      5.   Cutouts outside the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
      6.   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of pavement may be
required.
   D.   Clearance For Emergency Facilities: The work shall be performed and
conducted so as not to unreasonably interfere with access to fire hydrants,
fire stations, fire escapes and any other emergency facilities designated by
the City.
   E.   Relocation And Protection Of Utilities: The permittee shall notify the
owners of all facilities in the area a minimum of forty eight (48) hours prior
to excavating or initiating work. The permittee shall not interfere with any
existing facility without the written consent of the City and the owner of the
facility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall
be done by its owner or designee. No facility owned by the City shall be moved
to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the
permittee. The cost of moving privately owned facilities shall be similarly
borne by the permittee unless it makes other arrangements with the person
owning the facility. The permittee shall support and protect all pipes,
conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by
the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support, sustain and
protect them under, over, along or across said work until final backfill
consolidation is obtained. The permittee shall secure approval of the method of
support and protection from the owner of the facility. In case any of said
pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this
purpose pipe coating or other encasement or devices are to be considered as
part of a substructure, the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof.
All damaged facilities shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them
and the expense of such repairs shall be charged to the permittee. It is the
intent of this subsection that the permittee shall assume all liability for
damage to facilities and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of
such facility damage and such assumption of liability is a contractual
obligation of the permittee. The only exception will be such instances where
damage is exclusively due to the negligence of the owning utility. The City
shall not be a party to any action because of this subsection. The permittee
shall inform itself as to the existence and vertical as well as horizontal
location of all underground facilities within the excavation area by exposing
prior to machine digging and protect the same against damage.
   F.   Boulevards: When an excavation occurs in a boulevard, including the
sidewalk, the permittee must notify, in writing, the properties adjacent to the
area of work prior to commencement of work, in front of their properties. The
form of the notice and manner of distributing the notice must be approved by
the Engineering Department Director of the City or his or her designee. (Ord.
2018-03, 2-26-2018)
   G.   Standards For Wireless Telecommunication Facilities:
      1.   Purpose: The City desires high quality wireless communication
services to accommodate the needs of residents and businesses. At the same
time, the City strives to minimize the negative impacts that wireless
telecommunication facilities can have on aesthetics and public safety. Due to
the many services that must be delivered within its limited right-of-way, the
City also strives to avoid unnecessary encumbrances within the public right-of-
way. The City allows and regulates wireless telecommunication facilities
outside of the public right-of-way through performance standards and height
limits as described in title 10, chapter 17, article D of this Code. The
purpose of this subsection G is to regulate wireless telecommunication
facilities within the public right-of-way in a manner that balances desire for
service with aesthetic, public safety and right-of-way flexibility concerns.
      2.   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities As Pole Attachments: Wireless
telecommunication facilities that comply with the following requirements may be
attached to existing public utility structures within the right-of-way after
issuance of a wireless telecommunications permit.
         a.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall include ground
mounted equipment within the existing right-of-way limits as provided in
subsection G4 of this section.
         b.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not interfere with
public safety communications.
         c.   Wireless telecommunication facilities in the right-of-way shall
be removed and relocated at City request as provided by Minn. R. 7819.3100, as
may be amended.
         d.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not block light
emanating from the public utility structure and shall not otherwise interfere
with the original use of the public utility structure.
         e.   The wireless telecommunication facility installation must comply
with all permit terms and conditions.
      3.   Wireless Telecommunication Facilities As Pole Extensions Or With
Ground Mounted Equipment: Wireless telecommunication facilities that require
increased public utility structure height or that have ground mounted equipment
may be erected in the public right-of-way only when in compliance with the
following provisions and after issuance of a wireless telecommunications
permit.
         a.   If feasible and desirable, as determined by the Engineering
Department Director or designee, the replacement public utility structure shall
match the original and surrounding public utility structures in materials and
color.
         b.   The wireless telecommunication facility shall not interfere with
public safety communications.
         c.   The wireless telecommunication facility installation must comply
with all permit terms and conditions.
      4.   Permit; Conditions: A wireless telecommunications permit application
that has ground mounted equipment will be issued only if the Engineering
Department Director or designee finds the following:
         a.   The ground mounted equipment will not disrupt traffic or
pedestrian circulation;
         b.   The ground mounted equipment will not create a safety hazard; and
         c.   The ground mounted equipment will not adversely impact the
health, safety or welfare of the community.
      5.   Performance Standards: Ground mounted equipment associated with the
wireless telecommunication facility shall meet the following performance
standards:
         a.   Ground mounted equipment located outside the public right-of- way
shall conform with the requirements of title 10, chapter 17, article D of this
Code; and
         b.   Vegetative or other screening compatible with the surrounding
area shall be provided around the ground mounted equipment if deemed necessary
by the Engineering Department Director or designee.
      6.   Removal; Relocation: Wireless telecommunication facilities in the
right-of-way shall be removed and relocated upon notification from the City as
provided by Minn. R. 7819.3100, as may be amended.
      7.   New Poles: The erection in the right-of-way of a new pole to support
wireless telecommunication facilities is allowed in a manner consistent with
Minnesota Statutes section 237.163, subdivision 3c(a), as may be amended.
      8.   Applications For Permit: A wireless telecommunications right- of-way
permit must be submitted along with a signed copy of the wireless
telecommunications right-of-way terms and conditions for permit approval. Once
the permit application packet has been submitted with all supporting
documentation as outlined in section
8-4-9 of this chapter, the City will approve or deny the permit.
      9.   Charges: In addition to the permit fees outlined in section
8-4-11 of this chapter, the City reserves the right to charge telecommunication
providers for their use of the public right-of- way to the extent that such
charges are allowed under State law. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-28-2019)
   H.   Boulevard Rain Gardens And Plantings: It is the purpose and intent of
the City to allow property owners to plant and maintain boulevard areas
adjoining their property in a manner which enhances and improves the treatment
of stormwater and/or the aesthetic appearance of City streets and avenues
subordinate to the need to use the right-of-way for public purposes. All
boulevard rain gardens and plantings that require excavation of material for
installation must also comply with the provisions of section
8-4-6 of this chapter.
   BOULEVARD: Shall mean the public right-of-way lying between the property
line and sidewalk, and between the sidewalk and the roadway, or where no
sidewalk exists, between the property line and the roadway.
   BOULEVARD PLANTINGS: Means plantings other than turf that do not meet the
definition of a boulevard rain garden.
   BOULEVARD RAIN GARDENS: Means a stormwater treatment practice consisting of
a landscaped depressed area that can accept stormwater runoff from impervious
surfaces and allow it to infiltrate into and/or through the soil below as
defined by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and/or the Environmental
Protection Agency.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS: Means annual, biennial and perennial plants which are deemed
to be injurious to public health, environment, public roads, crops, livestock
and other property as specified by State or local laws, regulations, rules and
guidelines.
      1.   Boulevard Rain Gardens And Plantings Permitted: A property owner in
the City shall be permitted to plant, care for, and maintain boulevard rain
gardens or plantings adjacent to their property subject to the restrictions set
forth below along with all requirements and restrictions outlined by the EPA
and the MPCA Stormwater Manual.
         a.   Boulevard rain gardens and plantings, in compliance with section
8-4-8 of this chapter, shall be permitted. The Engineering Department shall
prepare and manage a permit system, including appropriate terms, conditions,
and specifications, for boulevard rain gardens and plantings except for those
authorized as part of a City project. Boulevard rain gardens and plantings may
not be installed until a permit is issued.
         b.   All boulevard rain gardens must be designed by a licensed
landscape architect or professional engineer.
         c.   Boulevard rain gardens and plantings must be maintained with no
encroachment or overhang onto the sidewalk, curb, or street area.
         d.   Boulevard rain gardens and plantings may include flowers and
other plants, but in no event, shall any noxious weed be planted or maintained.
         e.   No boulevard rain garden or planting may be constructed or
planted without written documentation that the property owner has arranged for
utility location at least forty eight (48) hours before excavation, has
received all necessary permits and approvals as outlined in section
8-4-6 of this chapter, and has planned plantings which will not interfere with
utilities. If relocation of utilities is required to comply with standards for
bury depths for underground utilities (MN Rules 7819.5000), and to protect
utility boxes and structures from damage due to inundation, the cost of
relocation shall be the responsibility of the permittee.
      2.   Compliance Requirements: The Engineering Department and/or Public
Works Department shall have the authority to investigate boulevards to
determine compliance with this section. For any property deemed to be in
violation, the City shall give notice of the alleged violation to the property
owner following the procedures set forth in section
1-4-2 of this Code. The Engineering Department may additionally determine
whether boulevard rain gardens or plantings otherwise in compliance with this
section nonetheless pose a public nuisance or hazard and may take action to
abate such nuisance or hazard.
      3.   Boulevard Restoration: Notwithstanding the foregoing, all boulevards
remain public property and subject to the right of the City and permitted
utility owners to perform necessary work; to plant, trim and otherwise maintain
trees; to access, install and maintain utilities; and to store excess snow. In
the event the City or permitted utility owners interfere with boulevard rain
garden or plantings in the course of such work, the City or utility owners
shall be responsible only to restore the boulevard to a grassy state. In no
event shall the City or utility owners be liable for any damage to, disruption
of, or removal of boulevard rain gardens or plantings, either direct or
indirect, as a result of the City or permitted private utilities performing any
installation, maintenance, or repairs in the public right-of- way. The City
shall have the right to remove or restrict any boulevard rain gardens or
plantings that are deemed to interfere with the safety of pedestrians and
motorists or City or private utility maintenance operations or other authorized
use of the right-of-way. (Ord. 2018-10, 6-25-2018)
8-4-32: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a survey reference point, or a permanent
survey bench mark, shall not be removed or disturbed without first obtaining
permission in writing from the City. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or bench marks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper placement of this monument by the City or registered land surveyor.
(Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-33: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this chapter precludes the City from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in
addition to requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
8-4-34: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be penalized
in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this Code.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City, in addition to the
remedies outlined in subsection A of this section, from seeking judicial
intervention in the form of injunction or restraining order to carry out and
enforce the terms and conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-03, 2-26-2018)
CHAPTER 5
STREET NAMES AND BUILDING NUMBERS
SECTION:
8-5-1: Grid System Established
8-5-2: Assignment of Building Numbers
8-5-1: GRID SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Streets or Avenues: All streets running north and south shall be
streets, and all streets running east and west shall be called avenues.
   B.   Numbering Streets: First Street shall be that street extending north
and south on the section line dividing sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 in the City as
the same is shown by the United States survey of said sections as near as the
same can be projected to said section lines. The next street extending parallel
to First Street on the east side shall be called Second Street. In like manner
all streets extending parallel to First Street on the east side thereof shall
be named by a numerical prefix corresponding to their distance eastward from
First Street.
   C.   Naming Street: All streets and avenues north of Center Avenue shall
have the affix North, and streets and avenues south of Center Avenue shall have
the affix South attached to their names. All avenues lying south of Center
Avenue shall have their names determined by a numerical prefix corresponding to
their distance in blocks south of Center Avenue, and all avenues lying north of
Center Avenue shall have their names determined by a numerical prefix
corresponding to their distance in blocks north from Center Avenue. (Ord. 9;
1967 Code §25.01)
8-5-2: ASSIGNMENT OF BUILDING NUMBERS:
   A.   Building Numbering: All buildings shall be numbered as follows: all
buildings fronting on avenues shall be numbered to correspond to their distance
from First Street eastward. The odd numbers in the numbering of buildings on
avenues and Center Avenue shall be placed on the south side and the even
numbers on the north side. The numeral 100 shall be used as a basic number to
indicate the number of blocks from the initial starting point in the numbering
of all buildings as herein mentioned. The buildings on Center Avenue shall be
numbered in a manner to correspond to the numbering of the avenues adjoining,
the buildings fronting on all streets to correspond to their distance northward
or southward from Center Avenue. In numbering all buildings on streets, the odd
numbers shall be placed on the west side and the even numbers on the east side.
(Ord. 9; 1967 Code §25.01)
   B.   Failure to Number: Every owner or occupier or rental unit manager shall
be responsible for maintaining building numbers in a conspicuous place and
manner on the front side of the building. Every owner or occupier of buildings
who fails and neglects for more than sixty (60) days after an official plat
containing the designated number of the lots and buildings has been filed with
the City Clerk, to have designated numbers placed in a conspicuous position
upon the front side of each and every building owned or occupied in such a
manner that the same may be easily read from the sidewalk adjoining the same,
shall, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of
Section
1-4-2 of this Code. (Ord. 88-20, 1-23-89)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Organization And Enforcement
9-1-3: Permits, Inspections And Fees
9-1-4: Plumbing Plans For New Or Remodeled Construction Projects
9-1-5: Violations And Penalties
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The 2020 Minnesota state building code, as adopted by the commissioner of labor
and industry pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 326B, including all of the
amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and published from time
to time by the Minnesota commissioner of labor and industry, through the
building code and standards unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the
exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
section. The 2020 Minnesota state building code is hereby incorporated in this
chapter as if fully set out herein. One copy of said code as it may be from
time to time amended, supplemented or replaced under the above statutes and
rules shall be on file in the office of the city clerk.
   A.   Administration Required: The chapters of the 2020 Minnesota state
building code listed below shall be administered by the city in accordance with
Minnesota statutes section 326B et seq., and any Minnesota rules thereunder as
such statutes and rules may be from time to time amended, supplemented or
replaced. In the event said statutes and rules require in the future any of the
below chapters to be deleted or additional chapters to be added, such chapters
shall automatically be deleted from or added to this chapter and administered
by the city accordingly:
      1.   Chapter 1300 - Minnesota Building Code Administration
      2.   Chapter 1301 - Building Official Certification
      3.   Chapter 1302 - State Building Code Construction Approvals
      4.   Chapter 1303 - Special Provisions
      5.   Chapter 1305 - Minnesota Building Code
      6.   Chapter 1307 - Elevators And Related Devices
      7.   Chapter 1309 - Minnesota Residential Code
      8.   Chapter 1311 - Minnesota Conservation Code For Existing Buildings
      9.   Chapter 1315 - Minnesota Electrical Code
      10.   Chapter 1322 - Minnesota Energy Codes
      11.   Chapter 1323 - Minnesota Energy Codes
      12.   Chapter 1325 - Solar Energy Systems
      13.   Chapter 1335 - Floodproofing Regulations
      14.   Chapter 1341 - Minnesota Accessibility Code
      15.   Chapter 1346 - Minnesota Mechanical Code
      16.   Chapter 1350 - Manufactured Homes
      17.   Chapter 1360 - Prefabricated Structures
      18.   Chapter 1361 - Industrialized/Modular Buildings
      19.   Chapter 1370 - Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home Parks)
      20.   Chapter 4714 - Minnesota Plumbing Code
      21.   Chapter 5230 - Minnesota High Pressure Piping Systems
      22.   Chapter 7511 - Fire Code
   B.   Administration Optional: In addition to those items listed above,
standards and supplemental materials referenced as an optional part of the
state building code are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference in the
building code of the city as if set forth in full:
      Chapter 1335 - Floodproofing Regulations, parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200 of
the Minnesota rules. (Ord. 2015-06, 3-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2020-03, 4-27-2020)
9-1-2: ORGANIZATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with Minnesota rules part 1300 subpart 1 and 2 and as modified by
chapter 1305. The code shall be enforced within the incorporated limits of the
city, within such extraterritorial limits as may be permitted the city by
Minnesota statutes section 16B.62, as such statutes may be from time to time
amended, supplemented or replaced, and within any jurisdiction entering into a
joint powers agreement with the city.
   A.   The building codes division shall be the enforcement agency of the
city.
   B.   The city council shall designate the building official for the
jurisdiction of Moorhead who shall be a state certified "building official" in
accordance with Minnesota statutes section 16B.65, subdivision 3, and any other
state rules or regulations thereunder, as said statutes and rules or
regulations may be amended, supplemented, or replaced from time to time. (Ord.
2003-3, 5-5-2003)
9-1-3: PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
Permits, inspections, and collection of fees shall be as authorized in
Minnesota statutes 362B and as provided in chapter 1300 of the Minnesota state
building code, as such edition, chapter and rules therein may be from time to
time amended, supplemented or replaced.
   A.   Building Permit Fees: The determination of value or valuation under any
of the provisions of this section must be made by the building official. The
value to be used in computing the building permit fee is the total value of all
construction work for which the permit is issued, as well as all finish work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire extinguishing systems and any other permanent equipment.
   B.   Building, Plumbing, Heating, Ventilating And Air Conditioning Permit
Fee Schedule: The fees for building, plumbing, heating, ventilating and air
conditioning permits shall be as established by the city’s fee schedule. The
city may from time to time amend and change the permit fees by an amendment of
the fee schedule or passage of a subsequent fee schedule.
   C.   Surcharge: In addition to the permit fees required by subsection B of
this section, an applicant for a permit shall pay a surcharge to be remitted to
the Minnesota department of administration as prescribed by Minnesota statutes.
   D.   Plan Review And Orientation Fees: Plan review or orientation fees shall
be charged. (Ord. 2003-3, 5-5-2003; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008; Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-1-4: PLUMBING PLANS FOR NEW OR REMODELED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS:
In accordance with Minnesota statutes 326.38, as such statutes may be from time
to time amended, supplemented or replaced, the city is hereby authorized to
review and approve plumbing plans on new or remodeled construction projects
that serve the public or that serve any considerable number of persons, said
review and approval to be made in accordance with the Minnesota plumbing code
as adopted in this chapter, as a part of the Minnesota state building code, and
in particular chapter 4715 plumbing. Provided, however, that the following
buildings must have plumbing plans reviewed by the state rather than the city:
   A.   Buildings which, because of the special nature of their plumbing
installation, as determined by the building official, are beyond the expertise
of the codes staff. (Ord. 2004-19, 7-19-2004)
9-1-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject, in accordance with the Minnesota state building code,
section 1300.0140 and Minnesota statutes 412.231, 609.033, and 609.034, to a
penalty of either a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisonment not to exceed more than ninety (90) days, or both, but in either
case the costs of prosecution may be added. Said penalty and imprisonment
provisions shall be automatically amended, supplemented, or replaced by any
amendment, supplement, or replacement to the penalty or imprisonment provisions
of Minnesota statutes 412.231, 609.033, and 609.034.
   B.   Notwithstanding the within and foregoing penalty, the city may apply to
the district court for Clay County for injunctive relief against any person
violating any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-19, 7-19-2004)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administration
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: General Requirements
9-2-4: Light, Ventilation And Occupancy Limitations
9-2-5: Plumbing Facilities And Fixture Requirements
9-2-6: Mechanical And Electrical Requirements
9-2-7: Fire Safety Requirements
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   General:
      1.   Title: These regulations shall be known as the building standards,
hereinafter referred to as "this chapter".
      2.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all residential
structures and other structures in residentially zoned districts and constitute
minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures, equipment and
facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from
the elements, life safety, and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of
owners, managers and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and
premises, and for administration, enforcement and penalties.
      3.   Intent: This chapter shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they
are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and
premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these
provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required herein. Repairs, alterations, additions to and change of
occupancy in existing buildings shall comply with the city building code.
      4.   Severability: If a section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this chapter is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   General: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in subsection A
of this section. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this chapter
specify different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
      2.   Maintenance: Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this chapter or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No manager, owner or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this section to be removed from or
shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except for such
temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are in
progress. The requirements of this chapter are not intended to provide the
basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner's designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
      3.   Application Of Other Codes: Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the city building code. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the Moorhead
zoning code.
      4.   Existing Remedies: The provisions in this chapter shall not be
construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure,
which is dangerous, unsafe and unsanitary.
      5.   Workmanship: Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this chapter
shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
      6.   Historic Buildings: The provisions of this chapter shall not be
mandatory for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings
when such buildings or structures are judged by the code official to be safe
and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
      7.   Referenced Codes And Standards: The codes and standards referenced
in this chapter shall be the building code, fire code and zoning code of the
city of Moorhead and considered part of the requirements of this chapter to the
prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this chapter and the referenced standards, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply.
   C.   Code Officials, Maintenance Inspection:
      1.   Appointment: The city manager shall appoint a code official to
administer this chapter.
      2.   Designees: The code official shall have the authority to appoint
designees to carry out the inspections and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Whenever code official is stated in this chapter, it includes all
designees of the code official.
      3.   Liability: The code official, officer or employee charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed
by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the
provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the legal representative of the
jurisdiction until the final termination of the proceedings. The code official
or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or
proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter;
and the code official, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free
from liability for acts performed under any of its provisions by reason of any
act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
      4.   Fees: The fees for activities and services performed by the
department in carrying out its responsibilities under this chapter shall be set
by the Moorhead city council through approval and adoption of a fee schedule.
The most current adopted fee schedule shall be used.
   D.   Duties And Powers Of Code Official:
      1.   General: The code official shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   Rule Making Authority: The code official shall have authority as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare: to
adopt and promulgate rules and procedures; to interpret and implement the
provisions of this chapter; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance
requirements specifically provided for in this chapter, or of violating
accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
      3.   Inspections: The code official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The code official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise,
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
      4.   Right Of Entry: The code official is authorized to enter the
structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the code official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by
law.
      5.   Identification: The code official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
chapter.
      6.   Notices And Orders: The code official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      7.   Department Records: The code official shall keep official records of
all business and activities of the department specified in the provisions of
this chapter. Such records shall be retained in the official records pursuant
to the document retention policy of the city.
      8.   Coordination Of Inspections: Whenever the enforcement of this
chapter or another code or ordinance, the responsibility of more than one code
official of the jurisdiction is involved, it shall be the duty of the code
officials involved to coordinate their inspections and administrative orders as
fully as practicable so that the owners and occupants of the structure shall
not be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors or multiple or conflicting
orders. Whenever an inspector from any agency or department observes an
apparent or actual violation of some provision of some law, ordinance or code
not within the inspector's authority to enforce, the inspector shall report the
findings to the code official having jurisdiction.
   E.   Approval:
      1.   Modifications: Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the code official shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the code
official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict
letter of this chapter impractical and the modification is in compliance with
the intent and purpose of this chapter and that such modification does not
lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action
granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the city files.
      2.   Alternative Materials, Methods And Equipment: The provisions of this
chapter are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically proscribed by this
chapter, provided that any such alternative has been approved by the code
official. An alternative material or method of construction shall be approved
where the code official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and
complies with the intent of the provisions of this chapter, and that the
material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in this chapter in quality, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
      3.   Required Testing: Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the code official
shall have the authority to require tests as evidence of compliance at no
expense to the jurisdiction.
         a.   Test Methods: Test methods shall be as specified in this chapter
or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and
accepted test methods, the code official shall be permitted to approve
appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
         b.   Test Reports: Reports of tests shall be retained by the code
official for the period required for retention of public records.
      4.   Material And Equipment Reuse: Materials, equipment and devices shall
not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have been
reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved by the code official.
   F.   Violations:
      1.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: The code official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with subsection G of this section.
      3.   Prosecution Of Violation: Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with subsection G of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be deemed a
strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the
code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Any action taken by the city shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
      4.   Violation Of Provisions; Penalties: Any person who shall violate a
provision of this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, may be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or
city code. Violation shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Alternatively, the code official may proceed with administrative citations and
civil penalties as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
      5.   Abatement Of Violation: The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the city from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or premises.
   G.   Notices And Orders:
      1.   Notice To Person Responsible: Whenever the code official determines
that there has been a violation of this chapter or has grounds to believe that
a violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the person responsible in
the manner prescribed in subsections G2 and G3 of this section.
      2.   Form: Such notice prescribed in subsection G1 of this section shall
be in accordance with all of the following:
         a.   Be in writing.
         b.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
         c.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
         d.   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Method Of Service: Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
         a.   Delivered personally;
         b.   Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the last known
address of the person responsible; or
         c.   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
      4.   Penalties: Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in subsection F4 of this section.
      5.   Transfer Of Ownership: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the code official and shall furnish to the code official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
Upon transfer of ownership, an inspection of the property is required before a
rental registration certificate will be issued.
   H.   Unsafe Structures And Equipment:
      1.   General: When a structure or equipment is found by the code official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection.
         a.   Unsafe Structures: An "unsafe structure" is one that is found to
be dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
         b.   Unsafe Equipment: Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
         c.   Structure Unfit For Human Occupancy: A structure is unfit for
human occupancy whenever the code official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
         d.   Unlawful Structure: An unlawful structure is one found in whole
or in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this chapter, or
was erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
      2.   Closing Of Vacant Structures: If the structure is vacant and unfit
for human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on
the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the code official shall cause the premises to be closed
and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate and may be collected by any other legal resource.
      3.   Notice: Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this subsection, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with subsection G3 of this section. If the notice
pertains to equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment. The
notice shall be in the form prescribed in subsection G2 of this section.
      4.   Placarding: Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to
comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the code official
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
"condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
         a.   Placard Removal: The code official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the code official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this section.
      5.   Prohibited Occupancy: Any occupied structure condemned and placarded
by the code official shall be vacated as ordered by the code official. Any
person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this section.
   I.   Emergency Measures:
      1.   Imminent Danger: When, in the opinion of the code official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: "This Structure is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official". It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
      2.   Temporary Safeguards: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
section, whenever, in the opinion of the code official, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the code official shall order the necessary
work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such
structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described
has been instituted; and shall cause other such action to be taken as the code
official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
      3.   Closing Streets: When necessary for the public safety, the code
official shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places
adjacent to unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
      4.   Emergency Repairs: For the purposes of this section, the code
official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible.
      5.   Costs Of Emergency Repairs: Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
      6.   Hearing: Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the appeals board, be afforded a hearing as described in this
chapter.
   J.   Demolition:
      1.   General: The code official shall order the owner of any premises
upon which is located any structure, which in the code official's judgment is
so old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary, or to demolish and remove at the owner's
option.
      2.   Notices And Orders: All notices and orders shall comply with
subsection G of this section.
      3.   Failure To Comply: If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the code official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
      4.   Salvage Materials: When any structure has been ordered demolished
and removed, the governing body or other designated officer under said contract
or arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, to the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
   K.   Means Of Appeal:
      1.   Application For Appeal: Any person directly affected by a decision
of the code official or a notice or order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to appeal to the board of appeals, provided that a written
application for appeal is filed within twenty (20) days after the day the
decision, notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based
on a claim that the true intent of this chapter or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this chapter do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this chapter are adequately satisfied
by other means.
      2.   Membership Of Board: The board of appeals shall consist of a minimum
of three (3) members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on
matters pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees of the
jurisdiction. The code official shall be an ex officio member but shall have no
vote on any matter before the board. The board shall be appointed by the city
manager and shall serve staggered and overlapping terms.
         a.   Alternate Members: The city manager may appoint two (2) or more
alternate members who shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals
during the absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall
possess the qualifications required for board membership.
         b.   Chairman: The board shall annually select one of its members to
serve as chairman.
         c.   Disqualification Of A Member: A member shall not hear an appeal
in which that member has a personal, professional or financial interest.
         d.   Secretary: The chief administrative officer shall designate a
qualified person to serve as secretary to the board. The secretary shall file a
detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief administrative
officer.
         e.   Compensation Of Members: The members shall receive no
compensation.
      3.   Notice Of Meeting: The board shall meet upon notice from the
chairman, within twenty (20) days of the filing of an appeal, or at a stated
periodic meeting.
      4.   Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official and
any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard. A quorum shall consist of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the board
membership.
         a.   Procedure: The board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
      5.   Postponed Hearing: When the full board is not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
      6.   Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the decision of
the code official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the total number
of appointed board members.
         a.   Records And Copies: The decision of the board shall be recorded.
Copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the code official.
         b.   Administration: The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the board.
      7.   Court Review: Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer.
      8.   Stays Of Enforcement: Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard by the board of appeals. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings shown in this section.
      2.   Interchangeability: Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
      3.   Terms Defined In Other Codes: Where terms are not defined in this
section and are defined in the city's building code, fire code or Moorhead
zoning code, such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those
codes.
      4.   Terms Not Defined: Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
      5.   Parts: Whenever the words "dwelling unit", "dwelling", "premises",
"building", "rooming house", "rooming unit", "housekeeping unit", or "story"
are stated in this chapter, they shall be construed as through they were
followed by the words "or any part thereof".
   B.   General Definitions:
   APPROVED: Approved by the code official.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM: A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM: Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
   CODE OFFICIAL: The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, or any duly authorized representative.
   CONDEMN: To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT: That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property.
The easement shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY: The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or managers of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE: The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GUARD: A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE: Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered habitable areas.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT: A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER: A condition which could cause serious or life threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION: The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   LABELED: Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET: To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   MANAGER: Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT: Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA: That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
    PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting
as a unit.
   PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky.
   ROOMING HOUSE: A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE: An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case, in
which it is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was
prohibited, or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to
do.
   STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT: A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM: A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   VENTILATION: The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE: Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   YARD: An open space on the sale lot with a structure. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-
2004)
9-2-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
      2.   Responsibility: The property owner shall be responsible to ensure
structures and exterior property are maintained in compliance with these
requirements. An owner or manager shall not permit another person to occupy
premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply
with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014)
   B.   Exterior Property Areas:
      1.   Sanitation: All exterior property and premises shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of
the exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      2.   Exhaust Vents: Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
      3.   Accessory Structures: All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
         a.   Gates which are required to be self-closing and self-latching in
accordance with the building code shall be maintained such that the gate will
positively close and latch when released from a still position of six inches
(6") (152 mm) from the gatepost.
      4.   Defacement Of Property: No person shall wilfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
   C.   Exterior Structure:
      1.   General: The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
      2.   Protective Treatment: All exterior surfaces, including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches and trim, shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors
and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and watertight.
      3.   Street Numbers: Each structure to which a street number has been
assigned shall have such number displayed in a position easily observed and
readable from the public way.
      4.   Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
      5.   Foundation Walls: All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents.
      6.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      7.   Roofs And Drainage: The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
All gutters and downspouts shall be present and functional on every structure
such that full and complete drainage away from the building occurs.
      8.   Decorative Features: All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
      9.   Overhang Extensions: All canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings,
fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts and similar overhang extensions shall
be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a
sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment. All
soffit and fascia areas shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight and
rodentproof; and shall be kept in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair.
      10.   Stair And Walking Surfaces: Every stair, ramp, balcony, porch, deck
or other walking surface shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
      11.   Stairways, Decks, Porches And Balconies: Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      12.   Chimneys And Towers: All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks,
and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and
in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      13.   Handrails And Guards: Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      14.   Window, Skylight, Door And Frames: Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weathertight.
         a.   Glazing: Double glazed windows are required on every exterior
window during the appropriate season.
         b.   Openable Windows: Every window, other than a fixed window, shall
be easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
      15.   Insect Screens: During the appropriate season, every door, window
and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food
preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens.
      16.   Doors: All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door.
      17.   Basement Hatchways: Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water. (Ord. 2004-
28, 10-18-2004)
   D.   Interior Structure:
      1.   General: The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Every occupant shall keep that part of the structure, which such occupant
occupies or controls in a clean and sanitary condition. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-
2014)
      2.   Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
      3.   Interior Surfaces: All interior surfaces, including windows and
doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling
paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other defective surface
conditions shall be corrected.
         a.   Kitchen Floor And Counter Surfaces: The kitchen floor and counter
surfaces shall be constructed and maintained so as to be impervious to water
and easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      4.   Stairs And Railings: All interior stairs and railings shall be
maintained in sound condition and good repair.
      5.   Stairs And Walking Surfaces: Every stair, ramp, balcony, porch, deck
or other walking surface shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
      6.   Handrails And Guards: Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
      7.   Interior Doors: Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware. All interior doors shall be in compliance with the
fire and life safety code. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
   E.   Rubbish And Garbage:
      1.   Disposal Of Rubbish: Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      2.   Rubbish Storage Facilities: Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage and rubbish disposal facilities or garbage storage containers.
      3.   Disposal Of Garbage: Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all garbage and any other organic waste, in a clean and
sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or garbage
storage containers, except for composting permitted pursuant to the provisions
of section
3-4-10 of this code. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply such
facilities or containers for all dwelling units.
   F.   Extermination:
      1.   Infestation: All structures shall be kept free from insect and
rodent infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
      2.   Owner: The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
      3.   Multiple Occupancy: The owner of a structure containing two (2) or
more dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014)
9-2-4: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a
structure.
      2.   Responsibility: The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these
requirements. An owner or manager shall not permit another person to occupy
premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Alternative Devices: In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the building code shall be permitted.
   B.   Light:
      1.   Habitable Spaces: Every habitable room in a dwelling unit shall have
a window area open to the outside equal to eight percent (8%) of the room’s
floor area with a minimum of eight (8) square feet (15 percent if the window is
a skylight). Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of
any room and such obstructions are located less than three feet (3') (914 mm)
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area for the room.
   Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior glazing
areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be at least eight percent (8%) of the floor area of the
interior room or space, but not less than twenty five (25) square feet (2.33
m2). The exterior glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being
served.
      2.   Common Halls And Stairways: Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a sixty (60) watt standard incandescent
light bulb for each two hundred (200) square feet (19 m2) of floor area or
equivalent illumination, provided that the spacing between lights shall not be
greater than thirty feet (30') (9144 mm). In other than residential
occupancies, means of egress, including exterior means of egress, stairways
shall be illuminated at all times the building space served by the means of
egress is occupied with a minimum of one foot-candle (11 lux) at floors,
landings and treads.
      3.   Other Spaces: All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances,
equipment and fixtures.
   C.   Ventilation:
      1.   Habitable Spaces: Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least forty five percent (45%) of the minimum glazed area required
in subsection A of this section.
   Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be at least eight percent (8%) of the floor area of the interior
room or space, but not less than twenty five (25) square feet (2.33 m2). The
ventilation openings to the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being
ventilated.
      2.   Bathrooms And Toilet Rooms: Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
subsection A of this section, except that a window shall not be required in
such spaces equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a
mechanical ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to
the outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
      3.   Cooking Facilities: Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit, and a cooking
facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present in a rooming unit.
   Exception: Where specifically approved in writing by the code official.
      4.   Process Ventilation: Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
      5.   Clothes Dryer Exhaust: Any dryer shall be vented to the outside of
the building and maintained in safe and proper condition. Dryer vents shall be
in compliance with the mechanical code and shall be made of rigid metal and
have smooth interior surfaces.
   Exception: Metal flexible duct connectors of less than six feet (6') may be
used. These can not be concealed in or through construction.
   D.   Occupancy Limitations:
      1.   Privacy: Dwelling units and rooming units shall be arranged to
provide privacy and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
      2.   Minimum Room Widths: A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall
not be less than seven feet (7') (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens
shall have a clear passageway of not less than three feet (3') (914 mm) between
counterfronts and appliances or counterfronts and walls.
      3.   Minimum Ceiling Heights: Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (7').
   Exceptions:
         a.   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not
less than four feet (4') (1219 mm) on center and projecting not more than six
inches (6") (152 mm) below the required ceiling height.
         b.   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a ceiling height
of not less than six feet eight inches (6'8") (2033 mm) with not less than six
feet four inches (6'4") (1932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts
and similar obstructions.
         c.   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar
purposes and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear
ceiling height of at least seven feet (7') over not less than one-third (1/3)
of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such
rooms, only those portions of the floor area with a clear ceiling height of
five feet (5') (1524 mm) or more shall be included.
      4.   Bedroom Requirements: Every bedroom shall comply with the
requirements of subsections D4a through D4e of this section.
         a.   Area For Sleeping Purposes: Every bedroom occupied by one person
shall contain at least seventy (70) square feet (6.5 m2) of floor area, and
every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain at least fifty
(50) square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
         b.   Access From Bedrooms: Bedrooms shall not constitute the only
means of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as
the only means of egress from other habitable spaces.
   Exception: Units that contain fewer than two (2) bedrooms.
         c.   Water Closet Accessibility: Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least one
water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
         d.   Prohibited Occupancy: Kitchens and nonhabitable spaces shall not
be used for sleeping purposes.
         e.   Other Requirements: Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to, the light,
ventilation, room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this
chapter; the plumbing facilities and water heating facilities requirements of
section
9-2-5  of this chapter; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle
requirements of section
9-2-6  of this chapter; and the smoke detector and emergency escape
requirements of section
9-2-7  of this chapter.
      5.   Overcrowding: Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the definition of “family” in section
10-2-2  of this code.
      6.   Efficiency Unit: Nothing in this section shall prohibit an
efficiency living unit from meeting the following requirements:
         a.   A unit occupied by not more than two (2) occupants shall have a
clear floor area of not less than two hundred twenty (220) square feet (20.4
m2). A unit occupied by three (3) occupants shall have a clear floor area of
not less than three hundred twenty (320) square feet (29.7 m2). These required
areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by subsections D6b and D6c of
this section.
         b.   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less
than thirty inches (30") (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to
this chapter shall be provided.
         c.   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory, and bathtub or shower.
         d.   The maximum number of occupants shall be three (3).
      7.   Food Preparation: All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
   E.   Basements:
      1.   No basement may be considered habitable unless written verification
is provided for proper drainage, proper waterproof condition, proper
sanitation, and compliance with housing and life safety requirements.
      2.   No basement may be considered habitable unless it meets minimum
window area and ventilation requirements. Such windows shall meet the
requirements cited by the international building code adopted by the state of
Minnesota and the city of Moorhead. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-
03, 4-28-2025)
9-2-5: PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
      2.   Responsibility: The owner of the structure shall provide and
maintain such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with
these requirements. An owner or manager shall not permit another person to
occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do not
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Required Facilities:
      1.   Dwelling Units: Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not
be used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
      2.   Rooming Houses: At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four (4) rooming units.
   C.   Toilet Rooms:
      1.   Privacy: Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
      2.   Location: Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving rooming units shall
have access by traversing not more than one flight of stairs and shall have
access from a common hall or passageway.
   D.   Plumbing Systems And Fixtures:
      1.   General: All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
      2.   Fixture Clearances: Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
      3.   Plumbing System Hazards: Where it is found that a plumbing system in
a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back siphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the code
official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard. A
letter from a licensed professional is required verifying that corrections have
been made to the listed plumbing deficiencies. Such certification of safe and
adequate conditions must be sent to the code official.
   E.   Water System:
      1.   General: Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the plumbing code.
      2.   Contamination: The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets, and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
      3.   Supply: The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
      4.   Water Heating Facilities: Water heating facilities shall be properly
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature of not more than one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F). A
gas burning water heater shall not be located in any bathroom, toilet room,
bedroom or other occupied room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion
air is provided. An approved combination temperature and pressure relief valve
and relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on
water heaters. This valve shall be extended downward to the floor for safe
water release in the event it is activated. When the water heating system is
natural gas or propane a properly installed and maintained manual shutoff valve
shall be present and accessible of each appliance connection. (Ord. 2004-28,
10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016)
   F.   Sanitary Drainage System:
      1.   General: All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either
a public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      2.   Maintenance: Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
   G.   Storm Drainage:
      1.   General: Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and
other open areas on the premises, including drainage from sump pumps, shall not
be discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance. Drainage must not
flow into a sanitary sewer. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
9-2-6: MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
      2.   Responsibility: No owner, manager, or occupant shall cause any
surface, facility, equipment or utility which is required under this chapter to
be removed, shut off or disconnected for any occupied dwelling let or occupied
by him/her except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while
actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary emergencies
when discontinuance of service is approved by the agency having jurisdiction.
No occupancy shall occur in any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not meet
all minimum standards for clean, sanitary, safe and fit housing.
   B.   Heating Facilities:
      1.   Facilities Required: Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this subsection. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
      2.   Residential Occupancies: Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of sixty eight degrees
Fahrenheit (68°F) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms. (Ord.
2016-13, 7-25-2016)
      3.   Heat Supply: Every owner and manager of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units, rooming units or guestrooms on
terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof
shall supply heat during the appropriate season to maintain a temperature of
not less than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and toilet rooms. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2016-13, 7-
25-2016)
Every dwelling unit shall have access to the heating thermostat controls for
its heating supply. If such control is not or cannot be readily accessible at
all times, installation of separate heat controls, under a proper heating
permit, will be required in each dwelling unit to provide accessibility. All
heat controls shall be properly installed and maintained in good working order.
(Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
      4.   Occupiable Workspaces: Indoor occupiable workspaces shall be
supplied with heat during the appropriate season to maintain a temperature of
not less than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) during the period the
spaces are occupied. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016)
Exceptions:
         a.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
         b.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
      5.   Room Temperature Measurement: The required room temperatures shall
be measured three feet (3') (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the
room and two feet (2') (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
   C.   Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment, fireplaces and solid
fuel burning appliances shall be properly installed and maintained in a safe
working condition, and shall be capable of performing the intended function.
When the furnace system is natural gas or propane, a properly installed and
maintained manual shutoff valve shall be present and accessible within six feet
(6') of each gas line to appliance connection.
         a.   Mechanical Equipment Hazards: Where it is found that mechanical
equipment is not properly installed, maintained and/or performing its intended
function, the code official shall require the defects to be corrected to
eliminate the hazard. A letter from a licensed professional is required
verifying that corrections have been made to the listed mechanical
deficiencies. Such certification of safe and adequate conditions must be sent
to the code official.
      2.   Cooking And Heating Equipment: All cooking and heating equipment,
components and accessories in every heating, cooking and water heating device
shall be maintained in good working order.
         a.   Cooking Equipment: Cooking appliances shall not be used to
provide space heating to meet the minimum requirements of subsection B3 of this
section.
      3.   Removal Of Combustion Products: All fuel burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent.
      4.   Clearances: All required clearances to combustible materials shall
be maintained.
      5.   Safety Controls: All safety controls for fuel burning equipment
shall be maintained in effective operation.
      6.   Combustion Air: A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel burning equipment.
      7.   Energy Conservation Devices: Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel burning appliance to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved
by the appliance manufacturer and local jurisdiction having control.
   D.   Electrical Facilities:
      1.   Facilities Required: Every occupied building shall be provided with
an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this subsection and
subsection E of this section.
      2.   Service: The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve
as a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance
with the NEC electrical code. Every dwelling shall be served by a main service
that is not less than sixty (60) amperes, three (3) wires.
      3.   Electrical System Hazards: Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient outlets, improper
wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the
code official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the
hazard. Certification of an upgrade condition by a licensed electrician must be
sent to the department of rental property maintenance inspection office after
completion.
   E.   Electrical Equipment:
      1.   Installation: All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner as required
by the NEC electrical code. Extension cords shall not be used as a substitute
for permanent wiring. Extension cords shall be used only with portable
appliances. Extension cords shall be plugged directly into an approved
receptacle, power tap or multiplug adapter and shall, except for approved
multiplug extension cords, serve only one portable appliance. The ampacity of
the extension cords shall not be less than the rated capacity of the portable
appliance supplied by the cord. The extension cords shall be maintained in good
condition without splices, deterioration or damage.
      2.   Receptacles: Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two (2) separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection.
      3.   Lighting Fixtures: Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet
room, kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall
contain at least one electric lighting fixture.
   F.   Elevators, Escalators And Dumbwaiters:
      1.   General: Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained
to sustain safely all imposed loads, to operate properly, and to be free from
physical and fire hazards. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter; or the certificate shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the building owner or manager.
      2.   Elevators: In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied.
Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be permitted to have
the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or servicing.
   G.   Duct Systems:
      1.   General: Duct systems shall be maintained free of all obstructions
and shall be capable of providing the required function. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-
2004)
9-2-7: FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
      2.   Responsibility: The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. An owner or manager shall not permit another person to occupy
premises which are not in a sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Means Of Egress:
      1.   General: A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the international fire code.
      2.   Aisles: The required width of aisles in accordance with the
international fire code shall be unobstructed.
      3.   Locked Doors: All means of egress doors shall be readily openable
from the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys,
special knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that
permitted by the Minnesota state building code.
      4.   Emergency Escape Openings: Required emergency escape openings shall
be maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
construction, and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings
shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or
tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over
emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening
size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of construction, and
such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use
of a key, tool or force greater than that which is required for normal
operation of the escape and rescue opening.
   C.   Fire Resistance Ratings:
      1.   Fire Resistance Rated Assemblies: The required fire resistance
rating of fire resistance rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions
and floors shall be maintained.
      2.   Opening Protectives: Required opening protectives shall be
maintained in an operative condition. All fire and smokestop doors shall be
maintained in operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not
be blocked or obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
   D.   Fire Protection Systems:
      1.   General: All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire,
actuate an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof
shall be maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with
the international fire code.
      2.   Smoke Alarms: Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and in dwellings not regulated
in group R occupancies, regardless of occupant load at all of the following
locations:
         a.   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
         b.   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
         c.   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level, provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
Single- or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in other groups in
accordance with the international fire code.
      3.   Power Source: In group R occupancies and in dwellings not regulated
as group R occupancies, single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring, provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than as required for over current
protection.
Exception: Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
buildings where no construction is taking place, buildings that are not served
from a commercial power source and in existing areas of buildings undergoing
alterations or repairs that do not result in the removal of interior wall or
ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space
or basement available which could provide access for building wiring without
the removal of interior finishes.
      4.   Interconnection: Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in group R-2, R-3, R-4 and in
dwellings not regulated as group R occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be
interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate
all of the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in
all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
Exceptions:
         a.   Interconnection is not required in buildings, which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs, or construction of any kind.
         b.   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
      5.   Fire Extinguishers: One 2A 10BC fire extinguisher shall be provided
for each unit. All fire extinguishers shall be certified annually by a
reputable fire extinguisher company.
Exception: Hall mounted fire extinguishers shall comply with the international
fire code. (Ord. 2004-28, 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 3
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-3-1: State License A Requirement
9-3-2: Permit Requirements
9-3-3: Removal Of Wires, Cables And Pipes
9-3-4: Conditions Of Permit
9-3-5: Exceptions
9-3-6: Penalty
9-3-1: STATE LICENSE A REQUIREMENT:
No person, except a state licensed house mover, shall remove, raise or support
free of its foundation any building or structure within the limits of the city,
and every person, before engaging in the occupation of moving, raising or
supporting any building or structure, shall have and obtain such license
therefor. The above shall not be construed as preventing the owners of a
building or structure from personally raising, moving or supporting such
building or structure upon their own premises.
Exception: A state license will not be required for anyone exempt from state
license requirements as outlined within applicable Minnesota state statutes.
(Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-2016)
9-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any person must, before raising, moving, or supporting
free from its foundation any building or structure, obtain a permit from the
city.
Exceptions: In cases where a building is ultimately being moved outside the
city limits, or in the case of the moving of an accessory building or single-
story garage, the application and application fee shall be filed with the
building official of the city, but no hearing or approval of the planning
commission or city council is required. Instead, the building official may
approve the permit and attach any conditions permitted in subsection G of this
section after providing notice and having consultation with the applicable city
departments. Any applicant whose moving permit is denied by the building
official under this section may appeal such decision to the city council within
fourteen (14) days of the denial of the permit.
   B.   Application: A person seeking a permit shall contact the building
official of the city to receive an application form and must file the completed
application form with the building official.
   C.   Hearing Notice: Upon receipt of completed application, a public hearing
shall be scheduled before the planning commission to consider the permit
application, and mail notices to all owners within three hundred fifty feet
(350') of the boundary of the property to which the structure is proposed to be
moved. Such written notice shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing, and a copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and
addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the
record of the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice
shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this chapter,
provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this section.
   D.   Copy Of Applications: Notice of the hearing and a copy of the
application shall be provided to the public works department, police
department, and the public service department.
   E.   Approval Of Moving Permit: The planning commission, in determining
whether or not to recommend approval of the moving permit to the city council,
shall consider the same factors that apply to the conditional use permits under
the zoning ordinances of the city. In addition, they shall consider the
following factors:
      1.   Whether such structure is so structurally unsafe that it could not
be moved without endangering persons and property in the city.
      2.   Whether the structure is structurally sound and capable of meeting
building code requirements subsequent to the move.
   F.   Compliance: Any permit granted must be in compliance with the rules of
the public service department relating to interruption of electric service to
its customers.
   G.   Conditions: The planning commission, in recommending approval of a
permit, may condition the permit upon the applicant meeting certain conditions,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The route to be followed in moving the structure.
      2.   The date and time limits in which the building may be moved.
      3.   The amount of time in which the public service department or other
association or corporation owning, operating or controlling wires or cable that
must be moved or displaced to accommodate the move has to remove or displace
wires or cables after receipt of notice of the time of the move.
      4.   The amount of a cash deposit or performance or completion bond
required by subsection J of this section.
      5.   The amount of a cash deposit, or letter of credit for estimated
costs that is required by subsection 9-3-3B of this chapter.
      6.   The alterations or repairs that must be made to the structure so as
to comply with building code requirements, and a date by which those
alterations must be made.
   H.   Approval Of Permit: After recommendation by the planning commission,
the matter shall be placed on the agenda of the next city council meeting. A
favorable vote of a majority of the council members present shall be required
to approve the permit.
   I.   Permit Fee: Any application for a permit shall be accompanied by a
permit fee, which fee shall be in an amount as established by the city's fee
schedule. Such fee shall not be refundable if the permit is denied.
   J.   Performance, Completion Bond: If a permit is approved, a cash deposit
or performance or completion bond in an amount set in the permit shall be filed
with the city clerk prior to the issuance of the permit, and be signed by a
good and sufficient surety, setting forth the completion date therein. Such
bond is for the purpose of insuring that alterations and repairs to the
structure to bring it up to code as required in the permit are accomplished.
(Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-2016)
9-3-3: REMOVAL OF WIRES, CABLES AND PIPES:
   A.   The person to whom a permit has been issued shall, before raising or
moving any building or structure to which electric wires, cables or piping for
any purpose are attached, notify the persons, associations or corporations
owning or controlling such electric wiring, cables or piping of the proposed
moving of said building or structure. The person, association or corporation so
notified, shall, within the time established in the permit, or if no time is
established in the permit, within a reasonable time thereafter, disconnect and
make safe all such electric wires, cables or piping.
   B.   In every case in which a permit shall be issued as herein provided for
the removal of any house or structure, when such removal requires the
displacement of any overhead electrical or other wire or cable, it shall be the
duty of the person, association or corporation, owning, operating or
controlling such wire or cable, to remove or displace the same as far as may be
necessary, at the cost and expense of the person to whom a permit has been
issued, to permit the removal of such house, building or structure. The
applicant shall provide the public service department business office with a
cash deposit or letter of credit for the estimated cost to the public service
department in moving wires and cables, which deposit shall be in an amount as
set in the permit. After the actual costs are determined, the public service
department will refund the remaining deposit or bill for additional costs.
   C.   The person to whom a permit has been issued shall notify the police
department, public service department and the person, association or
corporation owning, operating or controlling such wire or cable, to remove or
displace the same to facilitate the removal of said house, building or
structure of the exact time in which the move will take place. Such time shall
conform with the conditions of the permit on time of move, if any, and the
period of time in which the public service department or other association or
corporation has to move or displace overhead wires or cables shall be as set
out in the permit, and if no time is set out in the permit, within a reasonable
time thereafter to remove or displace such wires or cables sufficiently to
allow the passage of said house, building or structure. (Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-
2016)
9-3-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT:
   A.   Moving Buildings Across Railway Tracks: No house, building or structure
shall be moved across any railway track except at such time as permitted by the
persons, associations or corporations owning or controlling such tracks.
   B.   Buildings In Streets, Lights Required: When any building or structure
is being moved across or through any street or alley, a red light must be
illuminated at each corner of such building or structure from sunset to
sunrise. All ropes, blocks, winches, windlasses or other equipment used in the
moving of said building or structure must, when obstructing the free use of a
street or alley, be protected by suitable lights from sunset to sunrise. (Ord.
2016-15, 8-22-2016)
9-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Manufactured structures approved by state and local building authorities shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-2016)
9-3-6: PENALTY:
   A.   Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   Nothing contained in this penalty provision shall prevent the city from
obtaining a proper injunction or restraining order directed against any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter from the district court for
Clay County in addition to such other penalties as allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-15, 8-22-2016)
CHAPTER 4
INSTALLATION REGULATIONS AND LICENSES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Plumbing Installers
9-4-1-1: Definitions
9-4-1-2: Plumbing License Required
9-4-1-3: Master Plumber's Bond Required (Rep. by Ord. 91-13, 8-26-1991)
9-4-1-4: Plumbing Permits And Inspections
9-4-2: Violations And Penalties
9-4-1: PLUMBING INSTALLERS:
9-4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
JOURNEYMAN PLUMBER: Any person, other than a master plumber, who, as a
principal occupation, is engaged as an employee of or otherwise working under
the direction of a master plumber in the practical installation of plumbing.
MASTER PLUMBER: Any person skilled in the planning, superintending and the
practical installation of plumbing and otherwise lawfully qualified to contract
for plumbing and installations and to conduct the business of plumbing and who
is familiar with the laws, rules and regulations governing the same.
PLUMBER'S APPRENTICE: Any person, other than a journeyman or master plumber,
who, as a principal occupation, is engaged in working as an employee of a
master plumber under the immediate and personal supervision of either a master
or journeyman plumber in learning and assisting in the installation of
plumbing. (Ord. 795, 1-23-1984)
9-4-1-2: PLUMBING LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or work at the business of a master plumber or
journeyman plumber unless licensed to do so by the State Commissioner of Health
as required by State law or regulation. (Ord. 91-13, 8-26-1991)
9-4-1-3: MASTER PLUMBER'S BOND REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 91-13, 8-26-1991)
9-4-1-4: PLUMBING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permits And Plans:
      1.   Requirements; Exemptions:
         a.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to make any
installation, alteration, repair, replacement or remodel any plumbing system
regulated by the plumbing code except as permitted in the exceptions below, or
cause the same to be done without first obtaining a separate plumbing permit
for each separate building or structure.
         b.   Exempt Work: A permit will not be required for the following:
            (1)   The stopping of leaks in drains, soil, waste or vent pipe,
provided, however, that should any concealed trap, drainpipe, soil, waste or
vent pipe become defective and it becomes necessary to remove and replace the
same with new material, the same shall be considered as new work and a permit
shall be procured and inspection made as provided in this subsection A.
            (2)   The clearing of stoppages or the repairing of leaks in pipes,
valves or fixtures, or the removal and reinstallation of water closets,
provided such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or
rearrangement of valves, pipes, or fixtures.
            (3)   Other work which, at the discretion of the building official,
does not warrant the issuance of a permit.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this subsection A1 shall not be
deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in violation of the
provisions of the plumbing code or any other laws or ordinances of the city.
Permits must be issued only to a master plumber except that anyone not licensed
as a master plumber may be issued a permit to do plumbing work which complies
with the provisions of the plumbing code in an existing single-family dwelling
provided the person is the bona fide owner of such dwelling and that the same
is occupied by said owner, including the usual accessory buildings and quarters
in connection with such buildings.
      2.   Application: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file an
application therefor in writing on a form furnished by the city for that
purpose. Every application shall:
         a.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made.
         b.   Describe the land upon which the proposed work is to be done by
legal description, street address or similar description that will readily
identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
         c.   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         d.   Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and other data as
required in subsection A3 of this section.
         e.   Be signed by the permittee or his authorized agent, who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority. A master plumber must
file with the city a written list setting forth the names of his/her authorized
agents before the city will act on an application signed by an agent.
         f.   Give such other data and information as may be required by the
city. (Ord. 97-17, 9-2-1997)
         g.   Be accompanied by a fee as established by the city's fee
schedule. (Ord. 97-17, 9-2-1997; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive
to 1-1-2008)
      3.   Plans And Specifications: Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams
and other data shall be submitted to the city in one or more sets with each
application for a permit. The city may require plans, computations, and
specifications to be prepared by and the plumbing designed by an engineer and/
or architect licensed by the state to practice as such.
Exception: The building official may waive the submission of plans,
calculations, or other data if he finds that the nature of the work applied for
is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain compliance with the
plumbing code.
Plans and specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper and
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, nature, and extent of
the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to the provisions of
the plumbing code and relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. (Ord.
2004-19, 7-19-2004)
      4.   Permit Issuance: The application, plans and specifications and other
data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be reviewed by the building
official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the city to verify
compliance with applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the building
official finds that the work described in the application for a permit and the
plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the
requirements of the code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the
fees specified in subsection A7 of this section have been paid, he shall issue
a permit therefor to the applicant.
When the building official issues a permit where plans are required, he shall
approve the plans and specifications in writing. Such approved plans and
specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization
from the building official and all work shall be done in accordance with the
approved plans. Plans shall be retained by the building official as provided in
state law.
The building official may issue a permit for the construction of a part of a
plumbing system before the entire plans and specifications for the whole system
have been submitted or approved, provided adequate information and detailed
statements have been filed complying with all pertinent requirements of the
plumbing code. The holder of such permit may proceed at his risk without
assurance that the permit for the entire building, structure or plumbing system
will be granted.
The issuance of a permit or approval of plans and specifications shall not be
construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the
provisions of the plumbing code or of any other ordinance of the city. No
permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the
plumbing code shall be valid.
The issuance of a permit based upon plans, specifications or other data shall
not prevent the building official from thereafter requiring the correction of
errors in said plans, specifications and other data or from preventing building
operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of the plumbing code
or of other ordinances of the city. (Ord. 97-17, 9-2-1997)
      5.   Expiration: Every permit issued by the city under the provisions of
this subsection A shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the
work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of
one hundred eighty (180) days. Before such work can be recommenced, a new
permit shall first be obtained to do so, and the fee shall be dependent upon
the work being performed, provided no changes have been made or will be made in
the original plans and specifications for such work, and provided further, that
such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. (Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-
2016)
Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of the
time within which he may commence work under that permit when he is unable to
commence work within the time required by this subsection A for good and
satisfactory reasons. The building official may extend the time for action by
the permittee for a period not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days upon
written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control
of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No permit shall be
extended more than once. In order to renew action on a permit after expiration,
the permittee shall pay a new full permit fee.
      6.   Suspension Or Revocation: The building official may, in writing,
suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this subsection A
whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied or in violation of other ordinances or regulations of the city. (Ord.
97-17, 9-2-1997)
      7.   Permit Fees: The fee for each permit shall be as established by the
city's fee schedule. (Ord. 97-17, 9-2-1997; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008)
      8.   Plan Review Fees: A plan review fee will be charged as set forth by
the city council. (Ord. 2004-19, 7-19-2004)
      9.   Investigation Fees; Work Without A Permit:
         a.   Whenever any work for which a permit is required by this
subsection A has been commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special
investigation shall be made before a permit may be issued for such work.
         b.   An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, shall be
collected whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued. The
investigation fee shall be equal to the amount of the permit fee that would be
required by this subsection A if a permit were to be issued. The payment of
such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance with all
other provisions of the plumbing code, nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
      10.   Fee Refunds:
         a.   The building official may authorize the refunding of any fee paid
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
         b.   The building official may authorize the refunding of not more
than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done
under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
         c.   The building official shall not authorize the refunding of any
fee paid except upon written application filed by the original permittee not
later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment. (Ord.
97-17, 9-2-1997)
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   All inspections and tests shall be done in accordance with the
provisions set forth in the Minnesota plumbing code, as the same may be from
time to time amended by appropriate state officials.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the plumbing contractor to notify the city
staff orally by telephone, or in writing, not less than eight (8) working hours
before the work is to be inspected and tested. Inspections shall be made during
normal city business hours and not on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays.
(Ord. 795, 1-23-1984)
9-4-2: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on every day
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In addition to the penalties set forth herein, the city may avail
itself of such injunctive remedies to enforce the terms and conditions of this
chapter or to prohibit conduct contrary to the terms and conditions of this
chapter as it may deem necessary and is allowable by law by commencing an
appropriate action in the courts of Clay County having jurisdiction over such
action. Any such legal action by the city shall in no way affect the right of
the city to enforce penalties within the criminal court in addition to
obtaining injunctive relief. (Ord. 99-8, 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE PREVENTION
SECTION:
9-5-1: Fire Code Adopted
9-5-2: Fire Prevention Division
9-5-3: Certain Districts Established
9-5-4: Appeals
9-5-5: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Requiring Permits
9-5-6: Fire Prevention Permit Fee Schedule
9-5-7: Fire Hydrants
9-5-8: Abandoned Flammable Liquid Storage Tanks
9-5-9: Penalties
9-5-1: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Code Adopted: The 2007 Minnesota state fire code, marked as the
official copy and which is on file in the office of the Moorhead city clerk and
has been filed with the secretary of state and the commissioner of
administration of the state of Minnesota on July 10, 2007, is hereby adopted as
the fire code for the city for the purposes of prescribing regulations
governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
Every provision contained in said 2007 Minnesota state fire code and appendix
B, attached to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter as if fully set forth herein, except as the same is modified or
amended by this chapter.
   B.   Definitions:
      1.   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the Minnesota state fire
code, it shall be held to mean the city of Moorhead, Minnesota.
      2.   Whenever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the Minnesota
state fire code, it shall be held to mean the city attorney for the city of
Moorhead. (Ord. 2007-16, 8-20-2007)
9-5-2: FIRE PREVENTION DIVISION:
   A.   Established: A fire prevention division is established within the fire
department as per fire code requirements to administer and enforce the fire
prevention provisions of this code.
   B.   Authority Of Peace Officers: The chief of the fire department, the fire
marshal and members of the fire prevention division shall have the powers of a
peace officer in performing their duties on behalf of the city under this code.
(Ord. 2007-16, 8-20-2007)
9-5-3: CERTAIN DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Storage Of Flammable Or Combustible Liquids In Outside Aboveground
Tanks:
      1.   The limits referred to in chapter 3404.2.9.5.1 of the Minnesota
state fire code, in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, are hereby established as follows: Any
zone district other than the heavy industrial (HI) zone, except as set out
below:
         a.   Exception: Storage not to exceed ten thousand (10,000) gallons
may occur in light industrial (LI) zone when meeting the following
requirements:
            (1)   Double wall listed tanks.
            (2)   Located in secured area.
            (3)   Class II liquid only.
            (4)   Approval of the fire chief or his/her designee.
            (5)   Meeting all requirements of the Minnesota state fire code.
            (6)   Minimum of three hundred feet (300') from a nonindustrial
zone.
      2.   The limits referred to in chapter 3404.2.9.5.1 of the Minnesota
state fire code in which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible liquids
are prohibited are hereby established as follows: Any zone district other than
the heavy industrial (HI) zone, by approval of the fire chief or his/her
designee in the light industrial (LI) zone for the city.
      3.   The rules and regulations in the storage of flammable/combustible
liquids shall be regulated by the Minnesota state fire code chapter 34. Any
storage over two thousand (2,000) gallons' capacity shall not be allowed in any
other zone other than the heavy industrial zone of the city, and shall be
subject to the approval of the fire chief or his/her designee.
   B.   Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases: The rules and regulations in
the storage of liquefied petroleum gases shall be regulated by NFPA 58, 2004
edition. Any storage over two thousand (2,000) gallons' water capacity shall
not be allowed in any other zone other than the heavy industrial zone, or by
approval of authority having jurisdiction in light industrial zone of the city,
and shall be subject to the approval of the fire chief or his/her designee.
(Ord. 2011-13, 9-12-2011)
9-5-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the fire chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the code has been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision to the board of
appeals within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord.
2007-16, 8-20-2007)
9-5-5: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES REQUIRING PERMITS:
The fire chief or his/her designee shall determine and specify, after giving
affected persons the opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in
said code. Such a list shall be available to interested persons. (Ord. 2007-16,
8-20-2007)
9-5-6: FIRE PREVENTION PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE:
The fees for fire prevention permits shall be as established by the city's fee
schedule. The city may from time to time amend and change the permit fees by an
amendment of the fee schedule or passage of a subsequent fee schedule. (Ord.
2007-16, 8-20-2007; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
9-5-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
In the interest of fire prevention, the following rules shall be applicable to
placement of fire hydrants in connection with all water mains which are
constructed. Before extending water mains, the fire department shall designate
the placement of all fire hydrants, which fire hydrants shall be located
substantially as follows:
   A.   Fire hydrants shall be located on all required access roadways
according to chapter 5 of the Minnesota state fire code and the following
requirements.
   B.   Fire hydrants shall be located within five feet (5') of the required
access.
   C.   Fire hydrants shall have the four inch (4") port facing the required
access and the base flange of the hydrant must not vary more than three feet
(3') in elevation from the grade level of the required access. The center of
the four inch (4") port shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24") above
the finished grade.
   D.   If, in the opinion of the fire department, fire hydrants are vulnerable
to vehicular damage, appropriate crash posts shall be provided. No obstructions
shall exist within a three foot (3') working area of each required access. A
crash post shall be four inch (4") cement filled pipe minimum three feet (3')
in height with two feet (2') of piping below grade. Hydrant shutoff valves
shall be located no closer than five feet (5') from the hydrant and no farther
than twenty feet (20').
   E.   Fire hydrants are required to be maintained in an operable condition at
all times and must be repaired or replaced when defective. Hydrants must be
fully operable before construction commences above grade level. (Ord. 2007-16,
8-20-2007)
9-5-8: ABANDONED FLAMMABLE LIQUID STORAGE TANKS:
   A.   Tanks Subject To Regulation: Any flammable or combustible liquid tank
in the city shall be subject to regulation by the fire department as to its
removal, abandonment, temporary placement as out of service and general
disposition.
   B.   Permit Requirements; Application, Fee:
      1.   No installation, removal, abandonment, temporary placement as out of
service or other disposition of any flammable or combustible liquid tank shall
be undertaken prior to the approval of the proposed work and issuance of a
permit by the fire department. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at the site of the tank.
      2.   Applications for the permit shall be made on suitable forms provided
by the city. Plans and specifications for installation, removal, abandonment,
temporary placement as out of service, or other disposition of any flammable or
combustible liquid tank shall accompany the application for permit in a form of
sufficient clarity to be adequately checked for compliance with city ordinance
and this code. (Ord. 2007-16, 8-20-2007)
      3.   A permit fee will be charged to install, remove, abandon,
temporarily place out of service or otherwise dispose of any flammable or
combustible liquid tank. Permit fees shall be as established by the city's fee
schedule. (Ord. 2007-16, 8-20-2007; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   C.   Approval Of Changes In Plans: If, in the course of the installation,
removal, abandonment, temporary placement as out of service or other
disposition of any flammable or combustible liquid tank, it is found necessary
to make any changes from the plans and specifications for the work on which a
permit has been issued, amended plans and specifications documenting changes
shall be submitted to the fire department for approval.
   D.   Inspections And Tests: Any installation, removal, abandonment,
temporary placement as out of service or other disposition of any flammable or
combustible liquid tank shall be subject to inspections by the fire department
for compliance with this code and this chapter.
   E.   Requirements Concerning Abandoned Tanks:
      1.   Any tanks temporarily out of service shall have the fill line, gauge
opening and pump connection secured against tampering. Vent lines shall remain
open and be maintained in accordance with the requirements of the Minnesota
state fire code chapter 3404.2.13.1.1 or 3404.2.13.2.1.
      2.   Any tanks, above or below ground level not used for a period of
ninety (90) days shall be properly safeguarded in a manner approved by the fire
department. Tanks which are to be placed back in service shall be inspected and
tested in a manner approved by the fire department as required by Minnesota
state fire code, chapter 3404.2.13.1.2 or 3404.2.13.2.2.
      3.   Any aboveground tank which has been abandoned for a period of one
year shall be removed from the property in a manner approved by the fire
department as required by the Minnesota state fire code chapter 3404.2.13.2.3.
      4.   Any underground tank which has been abandoned for a period of one
year shall be removed from the ground and the hole properly filled as required
pursuant to the Minnesota state fire code chapter 3404.2.13.1.3.
   F.   Tanks Reinstalled For Use: Any tanks which are to be reinstalled for
flammable or combustible liquid service shall comply with the provisions of
this section and any other ordinance, regulation or statute pertaining to the
reinstallation of such tanks, including the requirements for an application for
permit for the work and inspections and tests by the fire department as
required by Minnesota state fire code chapter 3404.2.13.1.5. (Ord. 2007-16, 8-
20-2007)
9-5-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any provisions of the code hereby adopted or
failing to comply therewith, or violating or failing to comply with any order
made thereunder, or building in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or
failing to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the board of
appeals or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time affixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, upon conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions
of section
1-4-2 of this code.
   B.   The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each day that the prohibited conditions are maintained
shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent court
enforced removal, repair, rehabilitation, or demolition of such prohibited
conditions, as the case may be. (Ord. 2007-16, 8-20-2007)
CHAPTER 6
SWIMMING POOLS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2010-6, 7-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
RENTAL UNIT REGISTRATION AND INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-1-1: Program Administration
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Registration Requirements
9-7-4: Exemptions
9-7-5: Manner Of Registration Renewal
9-7-6: Transfer Of Property
9-7-7: Posting Of Registration
9-7-8: Fees
9-7-9: Maintenance Of Records
9-7-10: Maintenance Standards
9-7-11: Inspections And Investigations
9-7-12: Conduct On Registered Premises
9-7-13: Failure To Grant Registration, Revocation, Suspension Or Failure To
Renew Registration
9-7-14: Rental Appeals Board (Rep. by Ord. 97-8, 7-7-1997)
9-7-15: Summary Action
9-7-16: Applicable Laws
9-7-17: Violations, Injunctive Relief
9-7-18: Effective Date
9-7-19: Severability Clause
9-7-20: Penalty
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The city recognizes a need for an organized inspection program of residential
rental units within the city in order to ensure that rental units meet city and
state safety, health, fire and zoning codes within the city and to provide a
more effective system for compelling both absentee and local landlords to
correct violations and properly maintain rental property within the city. The
city recognizes that the most effective system to provide for rental
inspections is the creation of a program requiring the registration of all
residential rental units within the city so that orderly inspection schedules
can be undertaken by appropriate city officials. (Ord. 2005-30, 12-5-2005)
9-7-1-1: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
The city manager shall have the authority to designate a director of rental
registration who shall administer and enforce the rental registration program.
The city manager shall also have the authority to designate the authority to
administer the rental registration program to city staff who in the city
manager's discretion are necessary to administer the rental registration
program. (Ord. 2005-30, 12-5-2005)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
DWELLING: Any building, including a "manufactured home (mobile home)" as
defined in section
10-2-2 of this code, which is intended to be used for living or sleeping by
human occupants.
RENTAL: The leasing of a rental unit to a nonowner for a fixed or nonfixed
period of time, and shall include lease to buy, contract for deed that is not
recorded at the Clay County Recorders Office, installment sales, purchases, and
other similar arrangements whereby nonpayment of a periodic payment means the
occupants may be evicted without the necessity of either a statutory mortgage
foreclosure procedure, a statutory termination of contract for deed procedure
or a statutory repossession procedure.
RENTAL UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming a
single habitable unit. (Ord. 94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-1-1994; amd. Ord. 96-10,
5-6-1996; Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-3: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall hereafter occupy, allow to be occupied or let to another person
for occupancy any rental unit within the city for which a rental unit
registration has not been issued by the rental housing division of the city. An
application for registration shall be made upon forms furnished by the city for
such purpose and shall specifically require the following minimum information:
   A.   Name, address, email, and phone number of the property owner. If the
property is owned by a partnership, the names and addresses of all of the
partners. If the property is owned by a corporation, the names and addresses of
all shareholders who own ten percent (10%) or more of the corporation’s stock.
   B.   Name, address, email, and phone number of the designated local property
manager. There must be an owner or local property manager residing within Clay
County, Minnesota or Cass County, North Dakota.
   C.   The street address of the rental property.
   D.   The number and types of units within the rental property (dwelling
units or sleeping rooms).
   E.   The maximum number of occupants permitted for each dwelling unit or
sleeping room.
   F.   The name, phone number, email, and address of the person authorized to
make or order made repairs or services for the property, if in violation of
city or state codes, if the person is different than the owner or local
manager.
   G.   All new rental registration applicants shall submit proof that they
have completed the R-Home (Rental Home Owners and Managers Education) Program.
Where the training is not completed, they shall sign up to take the next
available class.
   H.   The city shall not register a new rental unit unless the owner has paid
all property taxes assessed to the property and the property is not delinquent
in any other obligations to the city of Moorhead.
   I.   All rental registration owners and managers are required to submit a
corrective plan of action after having a rental property’s registration revoked
or suspended and shall submit proof that they have completed crime free multi-
housing classroom training within ninety (90) days of reregistering the
property.
   J.   Upon request by the city, the owner of the property shall submit to the
city, within ten (10) days of the request, a list of the names and vehicle
license plate numbers of the occupants of the rental property. (Ord. 2014-18,
9-8-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to campus dormitory and campus residence units,
hospital units, nursing home units, retirement home units, nor other similar
units which are otherwise licensed by the state or city. (Ord. 94-10, 7-18-
1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
9-7-5: MANNER OF REGISTRATION RENEWAL:
   A.   Registration shall be required annually and be issued prior to annual
renewal date. The city shall be required annually to mail registration renewal
forms to the property owner or designated local manager thirty (30) days prior
to expiration and such renewal forms shall be returned to the community
development department of the city. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-03,
4-28-2025)
9-7-6: TRANSFER OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Every new owner of a rental unit (whether as fee owner or contract
purchaser) shall be required to furnish to the housing division the new owner’s
name, address, e-mail, and phone number, and the name, address, e-mail, and
phone number of the owner’s designated local manager before taking possession
of the rental property upon closing of the transaction.
   B.   Every new owner of a rental unit (whether as fee owner or a contract
purchaser) shall contact the city to have said property inspected pursuant to
section
9-7-11  of this chapter within thirty (30) days of the transfer of the rental
property.
   C.   Every owner of property currently being utilized as a single-family
housing unit, who is considering converting the property to a rental property,
may have the property inspected prior to completing the conversion. The
inspection shall be in accordance with section
9-7-11 , “Inspections And Investigations”, of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-30, 12-
5-2005; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-7: POSTING OF REGISTRATION:
Each registration holder shall post the annual registration issued by the city
in a conspicuous spot near the front entrance to the rental unit, a public
corridor, hallway or lobby of the rental dwelling for which it is issued. Only
one registration need be posted for each separate apartment building. Failure
to post the registration shall not be grounds for termination of registration,
but shall constitute an inspection violation. (Ord. 94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-
1-1994; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-8: FEES:
   A.   The fees for registration, a registration renewal, a transfer, a late
fee, and inspection fees shall be in the amount as established by the city's
fee schedule. (Ord. 2005-30, 12-5-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   B.   Whenever any person fails to pay the registration fees and other fees
associated with this chapter, the city may assess these fees against the
property for which they were assessed and such assessed fees shall be certified
as other taxes are certified. (Ord. 2005-30, 12-5-2005)
9-7-9: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:
All records, files and documents pertaining to the rental registration and
rental unit inspection program shall be maintained by the city and made
available to the public as allowed or required by state law or city ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014)
9-7-10: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Every rental unit, other than a manufactured home lot, shall be
maintained in accordance with the building standards of chapter 2 of this
title, the fire code adopted in chapter 5 of this title, the building code
adopted in chapter 1 of this title, and in a manner so as not to create a
nuisance pursuant to title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Every rental unit which is a manufactured home shall be maintained in
accordance with the requirements of title 3, chapter 10 of this code, and in a
manner so as not to create a nuisance pursuant to title 3, chapter 3 of this
code.
   C.   The designated director of rental registration shall maintain standards
for building and utility inspections, including but not limited to inspections
relating to maintenance of utility systems within rental units. (Ord. 96-10, 5-
6-1996; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-11: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   Personnel directed by the city manager are hereby authorized to make
inspections reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   All persons authorized herein to inspect shall have the authority to
enter, at all reasonable times, any rental dwelling or rental unit which is
registered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Persons inspecting any rental dwelling or rental unit as provided
herein shall notify the registration holder or designated manager/caretaker of
all violations, if any, by written notice. Said notice shall direct that
correction of any life safety violation be made immediately and that any
additional violations noted, if any, will be reinspected in not less than
twenty two (22) days, unless extended by the compliance official based on good
cause.
   D.   A registration holder may appeal a compliance order by filing a written
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days of the date of the compliance
order. The city manager shall schedule a hearing within ten (10) days of the
filing of the notice of appeal. Enforcement of the compliance order shall be
stayed pending the decision of the city manager on the appeal. (Ord. 2014-18,
9-8-2014)
9-7-12: CONDUCT ON REGISTERED PREMISES:
   A.   For purposes of this section, a premises is disorderly at which any of
the following activities occur:
      1.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of sections
3-3-2  of this code relating to public nuisances.
      2.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of section
4-4-2 of this code relating to noisy parties and other unnecessary and loud
noises.
      3.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of laws relating to the
possession of controlled substances, as defined in Minnesota statutes 152.01 et
seq.
      4.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of section
4-4-1 of this code relating to disorderly conduct or creating a breach of the
peace or violation of laws relating to disorderly conduct as defined in
Minnesota statutes 609.72.
      5.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of subsection 2-3-14C of this
code relating to minors possessing or consuming alcohol, subsection 2-3-14B of
this code relating to providing alcohol to minors, or violation of Minnesota
statutes 340A.701, 340A.702 or 340A.703, relating to the sale of intoxicating
liquor.
      6.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of subsection 4-4-11A or 4-4-
11B of this code relating to prostitution or indecent exposure, or a violation
of laws relating to prostitution or acts related to prostitution as defined in
Minnesota statutes 609.321, subdivision 9.
      7.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of section
4-4-12 of this code relating to weapons, or laws relating to unlawful use or
possession of a firearm as defined in Minnesota statutes 609.66 et seq., on the
registered premises.
      8.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of section
4-4-9  of this code relating to assaults, or 609.221 et seq., of the Minnesota
statutes relating to assaults as defined in Minnesota statutes 609.224.
      9.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of 609.595 of the Minnesota
statutes relating to criminal damage to property.
      10.   Conduct which constitutes a violation of 609.713 of the Minnesota
statutes relating to terroristic threats.
   B.   The city manager shall be responsible for administration of this
section. The authority to take any action authorized under this section may be
delegated to the city manager's authorized designee or designees.
   C.   Upon determination by the city manager or his/her designee that a
rental unit registered premises was used in a disorderly manner, as described
in subsection A of this section, the city manager or his/her designee, shall
give notice to the registration holder and the renters of the rental unit
affected, of the violation and direct the registration holder to take steps to
prevent further violations.
   D.   If another instance of disorderly use of the rental unit registered
premises occurs within twelve (12) months of an incident for which a notice in
subsection C of this section was given, the city manager, or his/her designee,
shall notify the registration holder and the renters of the affected unit of
the violation and shall require the registration holder to submit a written
report of the actions taken, and actions proposed to be taken, by the
registration holder to prevent further disorderly use of the premises. This
report shall be submitted to the city manager, or his/her authorized designee,
within five (5) days of receipt of the notice of disorderly use of the
premises, and shall detail all actions taken by the registration holder in
response to all notices of disorderly use of the premises within the preceding
twelve (12) months.
   E.   If another instance of disorderly use of the rental unit registered
premises occurs within twelve (12) months after any two (2) previous instances
of disorderly use for which notices were given to the registration holder and
the renters of the affected unit, pursuant to this section, the rental dwelling
license for the rental unit may be denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed if
the actions proposed to be undertaken by licensee pursuant to subsection D of
this section are inadequate and/or are not being diligently pursued. An action
to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a license under this section shall be
initiated by the city manager, or his/her designee, pursuant to the procedures
set out in section
9-7-13 of this chapter.
   F.   A determination that the registered premises have been used in a
disorderly manner as described in subsection A of this section shall be made
upon a fair preponderance of the evidence to support such a determination. It
shall not be necessary that criminal charges be brought in order to support a
determination of disorderly use, but the incident must have resulted in the
police or other law enforcement or code enforcement official being called to
the rental unit registered premises and a police or code enforcement notice
report being prepared.
   G.   For purposes of this chapter, “disorderly use of the rental unit
registered premises” shall mean disorderly use in the particular rental unit by
the renters, occupants or guests or conduct by the tenants which constitutes
disorderly use anywhere on the property of the apartment building or home or
mobile home park in which the rental unit is situated.
   H.   No adverse license action shall be imposed where the instance of
disorderly use of the licensed rental unit occurred during the pendency of
eviction proceedings (unlawful detainer), or within thirty (30) days of notice
given by the licensee to a tenant to vacate the premises where the disorderly
use was related to conduct by that tenant or by other occupants or guests of
the tenant’s unit. Eviction proceedings shall not be a bar to adverse license
action however, if the eviction proceedings are not diligently pursued by the
licensee. Further, an action to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a license
based upon violations of this section may be postponed or discontinued at any
time if it appears that the licensee has taken appropriate measures which will
prevent further instances of disorderly use.
   I.   Notwithstanding any other language of this section to the contrary,
conduct which otherwise constitutes disorderly use for purposes of this section
will not be deemed to be disorderly use for purposes of this section if the
police were notified of the disorderly conduct by a tenant residing in the
rental unit in which the disorderly conduct is occurring, or if the use is
occurring outside the specific rental unit registered premises, by a tenant of
the rental unit which would have otherwise received notice of disorderly use
pursuant to the terms of this section. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-
03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-13: FAILURE TO GRANT REGISTRATION, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FAILURE TO
RENEW REGISTRATION:
   A.   The city reserves the right not to register a unit unless the rental
unit or units for which registration is sought complies with the requirements
of this chapter.
   B.   Any registration issued under this chapter is subject to the right,
which is hereby expressly reserved by the city, to suspend, revoke or fail to
renew the same should the registration holder or their agents, employees,
representatives or lessees directly or indirectly operate or maintain the
rental dwellings contrary to the provisions of this chapter, other than section
9-7-12  of this chapter, or any other ordinance of the city or any special
permit issued by the city, or the laws of the state. Provided, however,
registration shall not be suspended, revoked or failed to be renewed if the
registration holder complies with a compliance order or orders in a timely
manner.
   A new registration request may be denied by the city should the registration
holder or their agents, employees, representatives or lessees directly or
indirectly operate or maintain other rental dwellings within the City contrary
to the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city of any
special permit issued by the city or laws of the state of Minnesota.
   C.   The city manager or his/her designee, shall notify, in writing, the
applicant that his/her registration has been denied, or the registration holder
that his/her registration is being suspended, removed or nonrenewed. The
suspension, revocation or nonrenewal shall occur thirty five (35) days after
the date of the order, or at such later date as set out in the order. The
notice shall be served by mailing a copy of the order to the property owner,
and the designated local property manager, if any, as indicated in the records
on file in the housing division of the fire department of the city.
   D.   The registration holder, or designated local manager, shall have the
right to request a hearing before the city council by filing a written appeal
from the order at the office of the city clerk within fifteen (15) days of the
date of the order. The timely filing of the written appeal shall stay the
enforcement of the order until the appeals process is completed.
   E.   The registration holder shall receive at least seven (7) days' written
notice of the hearing date before the council and, at the hearing, the
registration holder, the local managing agent, or an attorney representing the
registration holder may present evidence. After the hearing, the council may
uphold the decision of the city manager, or his/her designee, reverse the
decision of the city manager, or his/her designee, or enter a different order
with different conditions if the city council deems it necessary to protect the
public health, sanitation, safety or general welfare of the community at large
or the residents of rental units in the city. The city council shall issue
written findings of fact and its order within twenty (20) days of the hearing.
   F.   The decision of the city council may be appealed by the registration
holder by filing an appeal or an appropriate writ with the Clay County district
court within fifteen (15) days of the date of the order of the city council.
   G.   A reinstatement fee will be charged to the owner of a rental property
the rental registration of which has been revoked. Before issuing a
registration certificate any code violations or deficiencies must be corrected
prior to inspection and any outstanding fees must be paid in full. (Ord. 2014-
18, 9-8-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-7-14: RENTAL APPEALS BOARD:
(Rep. by Ord. 97-8, 7-7-1997)
9-7-15: SUMMARY ACTION:
   A.   When the conduct of any registration holder or their agent,
representative, employee or lessee, or the condition of their rental dwelling
or rental unit is detrimental to the public health, sanitation, safety and
general welfare of the community at large, or residents of the rental units so
as to constitute a nuisance, fire hazard, or other unsafe or dangerous
condition and, thus, give rise to an emergency, the city manager, or his/her
designee, shall have the authority to summarily condemn or close off individual
rental units or such areas of the rental dwelling as necessary. Notice of
summary condemnation shall be posted at the units or areas affected and shall
indicate the units or areas affected. No person shall remove the posted notice,
other than the city manager, or his/her designated representative. Any person
aggrieved by the decision or the action of the city manager or his/her
designee, set out in this subsection may appeal the decision following the
procedures set out in section
9-7-13 of this chapter. If the aggrieved person had not received summary
action; however, the date of the hearing may be expedited with the consent of
the registration holder.
   B.   The decision of the city manager or his/her designee, set forth in
subsection A of this section shall not be voided by the filing of such appeal.
Only after the hearing by the city council has been held will the decision or
action of the city manager or his/her designee, be affected. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-
8-2014)
9-7-16: APPLICABLE LAWS:
Registration holders shall be subject to all of the ordinances of the city and
state relating to rental dwellings, and this chapter shall not be construed or
interpreted to supersede or limit any other such applicable ordinance or law.
(Ord. 94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
9-7-17: VIOLATIONS, INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from taking affirmative action
under any of its city fire, housing, zoning or other health safety codes for
violations thereof to seek either injunctive relief or criminal prosecution for
such violations in accordance with the terms and conditions of the particular
ordinance or code under which the city would proceed against the property
owner, designated property manager or occupant of any residential rental
dwelling unit covered by this registration and inspection chapter. Nothing
contained in this chapter shall prevent the city from seeking injunctive relief
against a property owner or designated property manager who fails to comply
with the terms and conditions of this chapter on registration to obtain an
order closing such rental units until violations of this particular chapter
have been remedied by the property owner or designated property manager. (Ord.
94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
9-7-18: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall not become effective until November 1, 1994, and prior to
that date the current title 9, chapter 7 of this code shall remain in full
force and effect. Provided, however, that the registration application and
issuance sections of the chapter shall become effective immediately, and all
rental units must be properly registered prior to the effective date of this
chapter or be held to be in violation of this chapter. The initial rental
registration shall cover a period from the date of its issue through December
31, 1995. (Ord. 94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
9-7-19: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter. (Ord. 94-10, 7-18-1994, eff. 11-1-1994)
9-7-20: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor and be subject to a fine not to exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 95-13, 8-7-1995)
CHAPTER 8
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Applicability
9-8-3: Off Street Parking Of Vehicles And Recreational Equipment
9-8-4: Outside Storage; Residential
9-8-5: Outside Storage; Commercial Or Industrial
9-8-6: Refuse And Recycling
9-8-7: Grading And Drainage
9-8-8: Unlawful To Allow Disrepair Of Sidewalks, Driveways, And Parking Areas
9-8-9: Unsafe Structures And Equipment
9-8-10: Maintenance Of Exterior Structures
9-8-11: Securing Vacant/Boarded Buildings
9-8-12: Vacant/Boarded Building Registration
9-8-13: Penalty For Violations
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined that property that is not properly maintained in a
clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition tends to result in blighted and
deteriorated neighborhoods and is contrary to the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the community. The provisions of this section shall
govern the minimum conditions and responsibilities of the property owner for
maintenance of structures and exterior property. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-2: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the city
limits of Moorhead unless its applicability is specifically restricted in a
regulation set out in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-3: OFF STREET PARKING OF VEHICLES AND RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
   COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT: All nonlicensed off road
commercial, industrial, or agricultural equipment such as tractors, payloaders,
front end loaders, and related equipment, other than such equipment that is
designed primarily for residential use and is used primarily at the residence
in which it is parked, such as garden tractors, lawn mowers and related
equipment.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: Commercial, industrial, agricultural, and other
motorized vehicles and trailers, having a registered gross weight in excess of
fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds (class 4 or greater) or other vehicles with
height exceeding eleven feet (11').
   INOPERABLE/JUNK VEHICLES: Any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked,
junked, abandoned or noncurrently licensed vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: Any vehicular or portable structure transportable on
a mobile chassis, designed to be used for recreational purposes, including, but
not limited to, snowmobiles, personal watercraft, all-terrain vehicles, boats,
and other similar recreational equipment, utility trailers, horse trailers, and
trailers used to transport recreational equipment.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Motorized and nonmotorized recreational vehicles,
including, but not limited to, motor homes, campers, travel trailers, tiny
houses, and other portable facilities that may provide living quarters.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) YARD AREA: Those areas on a residentially zoned
parcel where a recreational vehicle may or may not be stored relative to the
main residential building and orientation to the street. Including the
following definitions:
    RV Front Yard: For the purposes of recreational vehicle storage, a space
extending the width of a parcel between the front property line and the front
of the residence and not less than the required front setback for the zone. If
the front of the primary structure varies relative to the front property line,
the RV front yard shall follow the front of the primary structure, not an
imaginary straight line taken from the nearest wall of the primary structure to
the street. For corner lots, the RV front yard is the adjacent to the street
frontage facing the primary entrance to the house.
    RV Rear Yard: For the purposes of recreational vehicle storage, a space
extending the width of a parcel between the rear property line and a line
parallel with the rear wall of the main residence.
    RV Side Yard: For the purposes of recreational vehicle storage, a space
extending from the RV front yard area to the RV rear yard area between the side
property line and the side wall of the main residence.
    RV Street Side Yard: For the purposes of recreational vehicle storage, the
RV yard area adjacent to a street on a corner lot between the RV front yard as
determined by the corner lot RV front yard definition and the RV rear yard.
   ILLUSTRATION FOR RV DEFINITIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/68ef61e2f76b6289a5869f2f6083e603802c7b8d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2126.jpg]
   B.   Off Street Parking:
      1.   General Provisions: Off street parking of noncommerc ial motor
vehicles and recreational vehicles must be on a continuous paved surface,
consisting of either asphalt or concrete, unless the vehicle is being washed.
Parking on gravel surfacing shall be allowed only as specified in subsection
10-20-4 F5 of this code.
      2.   Boulevards: The boulevard portion of the street right of way may not
be used for parking.
      3.   Additional Restrictions:
         a.   Inoperable/Junk Vehicles: No inoperable/junk vehicle or
noncurrently licensed vehicle may be parked on a property (including on the
driveway) longer than ninety six (96) hours; except a vehicle enclosed in a
building, or a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when central to the operation of such business
enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city. This section shall also
apply to recreational vehicles and recreational equipment.
         b.   Commercial Vehicles/Equipment: Commercial vehicles and
commercial, industrial, or agricultural equipment are not permitted to park on
a lot in a residential district except within an enclosed building.
         c.   Recreational Vehicle Parking:
            (1)   Quantity: Unless entirely enclosed within a building, no more
than one recreational vehicle may be parked on a residential property at one
time. On commercial properties, no more than two (2) recreational vehicles may
be parked on a property unless entirely enclosed within a building or on the
premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when
central to the operation of such business enterprise, or in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
city.
            (2)   Paved Surface: Motor homes, converted buses, or converted
vans may not be kept on an unpaved surface. Other recreational vehicles that do
not include motor homes, converted buses, or converted vans, must be parked on
a paved continuous surface, consisting of either asphalt or concrete unless
located in a rear yard or interior side yard.
            (3)   Parking Location: Recreational vehicles stored in the RV
front yard or RV street side yard of a residential property shall be a minimum
of three feet (3') from any property line; however, if the vehicle height
exceeds eleven feet (11') and it is parked in the RV front yard, it must be a
minimum of eight feet (8') from the side property line. Recreational vehicles
stored in the RV side yard or RV rear yard shall be a minimum of three feet
(3') from any property line.
            (4)   Nonconforming/Irregular Shape Lots: For lots which may not
comply with existing lot requirements, the zoning administrator or designee may
determine front, rear, and side lot designated areas based on building
configuration, site visibility, and other applicable factors.
         d.   Recreational Equipment Parking:
            (1)   Quantity: Unless entirely enclosed within a building, no more
than two (2) recreational equipment items, utility trailers or equipment, and
off road vehicles, may be stored on a property at the same time. Exception: If
a recreational vehicle is located on the property, only one recreational
equipment item may be stored on a property at the same time. If more than one
vehicle or equipment item is stored on a trailer, each vehicle or equipment
item shall be counted separately, but not the trailer.
            (2)   Surface and Location: Recreational equipment, utility
trailers or equipment, and/or off road vehicles must be on a continuous paved
surface unless located in a rear yard or interior side yard and shall be a
minimum of three feet (3') from any property line.
            (3)   Licensure. All recreational vehicles, trailers, or equipment
requiring state licensure must be currently licensed and in compliance with all
other provisions of this code.
         e.   Other Recreational Vehicle And Recreational Equipment Provisions:
All recreational vehicles, trailers, or equipment requiring state licensure
must be currently licensed and in compliance with all other aspects of this
code. At a residential property, the registered owner of a recreational vehicle
must either be the owner of the property upon which it is parked, or use the
property as their primary residence. This subsection does not apply to a single
recreational vehicle stored on the property as a result of a visiting guest as
long as the vehicle complies with the vehicle storage and occupancy limits of
section
10-19-8  of this code. (Ord. 2016-18, 11-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-8-4: OUTSIDE STORAGE; RESIDENTIAL:
   A.   Household storage including lawn maintenance and snow removal equipment
and tools, patio furniture, and recreational tools and equipment when not in
use, must be kept in a garage, storage building, or screened enclosure within a
rear yard, or behind the dwelling so as not to be visible from the street.
Furniture built for and intended for indoor use shall not be stored outside of
a residential structure.
   B.   Construction and landscaping material may not be stored outdoors except
when such materials are being used for a current project on the premises and
such materials are reasonably likely to be used within a sixty (60) day period.
   C.   Racecars or junk vehicles may not be stored on a residential lot,
except inside a building.
   D.   Storage of firewood is prohibited within the front yard. (Ord. 2004-27,
10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2005-31, 12-5-2005; Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-8-5: OUTSIDE STORAGE; COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL:
Storage areas may not be located within a required front yard or required side
yard and must be screened in accordance with section
10-19-18 of this code. For purposes of this section, storage does not include
the display of goods, which are related to the principal business and are being
sold at retail to the general public such as automobiles, trucks, farm
equipment, and similar items. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-6: REFUSE AND RECYCLING:
All refuse and refuse handling equipment (garbage cans, dumpsters, recycling
containers, and similar equipment) must be stored in accordance with
3-4-2 . (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2025-03, 4-28-2025)
9-8-7: GRADING AND DRAINAGE:
All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of soil and
to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure
located thereon, or on neighboring property. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-8: UNLAWFUL TO ALLOW DISREPAIR OF SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS, AND PARKING AREAS:
It shall be an offense for any person to allow or permit sidewalks, walkways,
stairs, driveways, parking spaces, and similar areas to cause a blighting
problem or safety hazard. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking
areas and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions. No obstructions of any kind shall be
allowed to remain on any sidewalk. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-9: UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT:
The provisions of subsections 9-2-1F, G, H, I, J and K of this title shall
apply to all property within the city. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-10: MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR STRUCTURES:
The provisions of subsection 9-2-3C of this title shall apply to all structures
in the city. (Ord. 2004-27, 10-18-2004)
9-8-11: SECURING VACANT/BOARDED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Notice: In general, if any building is deemed hazardous due to the fact
that the building is open to trespass and has not been secured and the building
could be made safe by securing the building, the code official, as appointed
pursuant to subsection 9-2-1C of this title, may order the building secured and
shall cause notice of the order to be served upon the owner of the premises.
Such notice may be served personally or by mail. Service by mail is complete
upon mailing a copy of the order to the owner at the last known address. If the
owner fails to comply with the order within six (6) days after the order is
served, the code official shall cause the building to be boarded up or
otherwise properly secured.
   B.   Emergency: When it is determined by the city manager or his/her
designee that an emergency exists with respect to the health or safety of
persons in the community, and immediate boarding and securing of a building is
required, and where danger will exist to children, transients or others in the
absence of an immediate boarding or securing of the building, the designated
city official may waive all requirements herein and immediately board or
otherwise secure the building, provided that:
      1.   The conditions showing the existence of an exigency are documented
in writing by the city manager or his/her designee.
      2.   Notice be mailed immediately by the department invoking this section
to the address of the owner and taxpayer, and, if recorded on the assessor's
rolls, the address of the mortgage holder, of the date of boarding or otherwise
securing and the reasons therefor.
   C.   Boarding Standards:
      1.   Boarding of a structure shall be required for all doors and windows
that are not secured by normal means; however, at least one door at grade level
shall be maintained with locks or hinges to permit entry for inspection
purposes under subsection C5 of this section.
      2.   Boards shall be cut to fit door and window openings, and square head
or star drive screws at least three inches (3") in length with washers shall be
used to fasten boards to a structure.
      3.   Boards shall be a minimum of five-eighths inch (5/8") thick and
painted to match the trim or siding color of the structure, or be painted
forest green.
      4.   Screening or alternate methods of boarding may be permitted when
approved by the city of Moorhead code official.
      5.   The owner of a structure boarded under this section shall be
required, upon notification, to provide entry to the structure to the city of
Moorhead code official at least once every six (6) months for inspection
purposes, or at any time when the structure has been unlawfully entered.
      6.   The owner of a boarded structure shall notify the city of Moorhead
code official in writing no later than ten (10) days after sale of the
structure or the unboarding of the property.
   D.   Maintenance Of Secured Building: After a vacant or unoccupied building
has been boarded or otherwise secured under this section, should the owner fail
to maintain the building in a secured condition until such time as it has been
repaired and reoccupied, the code official shall resecure any openings into the
building whenever it again becomes open to trespass, without further notice to
the owner.
An administrative fee as established by the city's fee schedule and all other
costs incurred by the city for boarding or otherwise securing a building under
this section, including, but not limited to, the actual costs for boarding,
inspecting, posting and monitoring the building, shall be charged as a special
assessment against the real estate upon which the structure is located and
shall be a lien upon such real estate.
"Owner", for the purposes of this section, shall mean the person who is listed
as the contact person on the current rental licensing application on file with
the city, if any; or, if none, the person listed as owner by the city assessor
on the homestead record; or, if none, the taxpayer as shown by the records of
the city assessor. "Owner" shall not include a community development agency
organized pursuant to the laws of Minnesota, 1980, chapter 595. (Ord. 2014-18,
9-8-2014)
9-8-12: VACANT/BOARDED BUILDING REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Criteria: The owner of a building shall register the
building with the code official within five (5) days after it becomes a vacant
or boarded building. In this section a "vacant or boarded building" is one that
is:
      1.   Condemned;
      2.   Unoccupied and unsecured for five (5) days or more;
      3.   Secured by means other than those normally used in the design of the
building for thirty (30) days or more;
      4.   Documented as having multiple building standards, fire or building
code violations existing for thirty (30) days or more;
      5.   Unoccupied for a period of time over three hundred sixty five (365)
days and during which time an order has been issued to correct a nuisance
condition pursuant to title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Registration Forms; Required Information: The registration shall be
submitted on forms provided by the code official and shall include the
following information supplied by the owner:
      1.   A description of the premises;
      2.   The names and addresses of the owner or owners;
      3.   The names and addresses of all known lienholders and all other
parties with an ownership interest in the building;
      4.   The period of time the building is expected to remain vacant and a
plan and timetable for returning the building to appropriate occupancy or for
demolition of the building.
   C.   Compliance During Vacancy/Boarding Period: The owner shall comply with
all applicable laws and codes. The owner shall notify the code official of any
changes in information supplied as part of the building registration within
thirty (30) days of the change. If the plan or timetable for the building
repair or demolition is revised in any way, the revisions must meet the
approval of the code official. The code official may require the water to be
shut off in a vacant building in order to avoid the possibility of damages from
broken water lines, freezing of water lines or vandalism.
   D.   Long Term Compliance: Boarding of vacant buildings is considered an
interim measure. Property owners are expected to restore buildings to minimum
property maintenance standards or conduct demolition of substandard structures
within six (6) months in residential or mixed use zoning districts, or within
twelve (12) months in commercial, industrial, or other zoning districts not
specifically referenced herein. Property owner's documentation of substantial
progress toward site restoration and specific obstacles impeding timely
performance may warrant consideration by the code official of an extension to
the compliance time line.
   E.   Maintenance Of Building Until Action Taken: The owner and the
subsequent owners shall keep the building secured and safe and the building and
grounds properly maintained until the rehabilitation or demolition has been
completed.
   F.   Failure To Maintain: Failure of the owner or any subsequent owner to
maintain the building and premises that results in abatement completed by the
city shall be grounds for revocation of the approved plan and shall be subject
to any applicable penalties provided by law.
   G.   New Owner Registration: The new owner(s) shall register or reregister
buildings subject to subsection A of this section with the code official within
thirty (30) days of any transfer of an ownership interest in a vacant/boarded
building. The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved plan and timetable
submitted by the previous owner until any proposed changes are submitted and
meet the approval of the director of inspections.
   H.   File Of Written Statements: The code official shall include in the file
any property specific written statements from community organizations, other
interested parties or citizens regarding the history, problems, status or
blighting influence of a vacant building.
   I.   Vacant/Boarded Building Fees:
      1.   The owner of a vacant/boarded building shall pay an initial
registration fee as established by the city’s fee schedule. The fee is imposed
to defray the administrative costs for registering and processing the building
registration form and for the costs of the city in monitoring the building
site.
      2.   Unpaid fees shall be charged as a special assessment against the
real estate upon which the structure is located and shall be a lien upon such
real estate. Upon transfer of ownership, the new owner(s) shall be responsible
for all unpaid annual fees.
   J.   Owner To Provide Access: A building owner shall provide access to all
interior portions of an unoccupied building in order to permit a complete
inspection for the purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014; amd. Ord 2025-03, 4-28-
2025)
9-8-13: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
A violation of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to being a possible
criminal violation, is an administrative offense that may be subject to an
administrative citation and civil penalties. Each day a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense. The city may elect to pursue either the
administrative offense or the applicable criminal offense, but not both for the
same offense. (Ord. 2014-18, 9-8-2014)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND APPLICATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Intent
10-1-4: Relation To Comprehensive Municipal Plan
10-1-5: Relation To Growth Area Plans
10-1-6: Standard Requirements
10-1-7: Uses Not Provided Within Zoning Districts
10-1-8: Provisional And Conditional Uses
10-1-9: Monuments
10-1-10: Separability
10-1-11: Schedule Of Fees, Charges And Expenses
10-1-12: Authority
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF MOORHEAD. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is for the purpose of promoting and protecting the public health,
safety and general welfare, by regulating the location, size of buildings and
other structures; the percentage of lot which may be occupied; the size of
yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution of population; the
uses of buildings and structures for trade, industry, residence, recreation,
public activities or other purposes; and the use of land for trade, industry,
residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, soil conservation, water supply
conservation, conservation of shorelands, flood control and other purposes and
establishing standards and procedures regulating such uses. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
10-1-3: INTENT:
To protect the public, such provisions are intended to provide for adequate
light and air, safety from fire and other danger; prevent undue concentration
of population; provide ample parking facilities; regulate the location and
operation of businesses, industries, dwellings and buildings for other
specified purposes; preserve property values by providing for orderly and
compatible development of the various land uses; encourage energy conservation
and the use of renewable energy resources; provide for administration of this
title; provide for amendments hereto; and provide for official recording of
this title and all amendments hereto. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-4: RELATION TO COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN:
It is the policy of the city that the enforcement, amendment and administration
of this title be accomplished with due consideration of the recommendations
contained in the city comprehensive plan as developed and amended, from time to
time, by the planning commission and council. The council recognizes the city
comprehensive plan as the policy for regulating land use and development in
accordance with the policies and purpose herein set forth. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
10-1-5: RELATION TO GROWTH AREA PLANS:
It is the policy of the city that the enforcement, amendment and administration
of this title be accomplished with due consideration of the recommendations
contained in the city's growth area plan, as applicable, and as developed and
amended, from time to time, by the planning commission and council. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-6: STANDARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   More Restrictive Provisions To Govern: Where the conditions imposed by
any provisions of this title are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, code, statute,
resolution or regulation, the regulations which are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
   B.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Conformity With This Title: No building or structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, constructed, reconstructed, moved or altered, and no
building, structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this title and without a
building permit being issued when required by this code.
   D.   Building Occupancy: Except as herein provided, no building, structure
or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be
granted that does not conform to the requirements of this title.
   E.   Nonreduction Of Yards Or Lots: No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of this title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date
of this title shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
title.
   F.   Regulation Application: These regulations shall not abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement where such is legally
enforceable, provided, that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive, or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this title shall be
controlling. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-7: USES NOT PROVIDED WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such cases, the council or
the planning commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a
study to determine if the use is acceptable and, if so, what zoning district
would be most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards
relating to development of the use. The council, planning commission or
property owner, upon receipt of the staff study shall, if appropriate, initiate
an amendment to this title to provide for the particular use under
consideration or shall find that the use is not compatible for development
within the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-8: PROVISIONAL AND CONDITIONAL USES:
Any established use or building legally existing prior to the establishment of
this title and which is now classified as a provisional or conditional use may
be continued in like fashion and activity and shall automatically be considered
as having received provisional or conditional use permit approval. Any change
to such a use, or expansion of such use, shall, however, be required to meet
those standards as specified within this title. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-9: MONUMENTS:
All international, federal, state, county and other official monuments,
benchmarks, triangulation points, and stations shall be preserved in their
precise locations; and it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
ensure that these markers are maintained in good condition during and following
construction and development. All sections, one-fourth (1/4) section and one-
sixteenth (1/16) section corners shall be duly described and tied. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-10: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this title are separable in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions of this
title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-11: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses and a
collection procedure for zoning applications, building permits, variances,
provisional or conditional uses, appeals and other matters pertaining to this
title. The schedule of fees shall be posted as appropriate and may be altered
or amended only by the council.
No rezoning, building permit, provisional or conditional use or variance shall
be issued or granted unless or until such costs, charges, fees or expenses have
been paid in full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the
board of adjustment and appeals or planning commission until charges and fees
have been paid in full. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-1-12: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the municipal
planning act, Minnesota statutes sections 462.351 to 462.363. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-
3-2005)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
For the purposes of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.   The word "person" includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
   B.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular includes the
plural and the plural includes the singular.
   C.   The words "shall", "must", and "will" are mandatory; the word "may" is
permissive.
   D.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   E.   All measured distances expressed in feet must be to the nearest one-
twelfth (1/12) of a foot.
   F.   When calculating parking stall requirements, any fraction of over one-
half (1/2) will constitute an additional parking space.
   G.   When calculating density, any fraction of a number will not constitute
an additional dwelling unit.
   H.   For terminology not defined in this title, "Webster's Third New
International Dictionary" or its most current descendent will be used to define
such terms. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
interpreted as herein defined:
ABUTTING: Directly beside a shared property line.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: A subordinate building, structure or use
which is located on the same lot as the principal building or use and which is
incidental to the conduct of the principal use.
ADDITION: A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily designed to serve as secondary access to
the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on a street.
AMUSEMENT PARK: The permanent use of land for the purpose of providing a
variety of amusement facilities to the public for compensation either in the
form of admission fees and/or fees for use of separate amusement facilities.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any lot or premises, not a kennel, in which stray or abandoned
animals are kept or cared for on a temporary basis until claimed, adopted or
euthanized.
APARTMENT: A portion of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms which
is designed for, intended for, or used as a residence by a single family or an
individual, and is equipped with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and
efficiency unit.
APPLICANT: The owner, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in land which the provisions of this title are being considered
for or reviewed.
AREA, GROSS: All of the area within a development or plat before areas needed
for parks, streets, storm water or other public improvements are dedicated or
deducted. Gross area is typically expressed in acres or square feet.
AREA, NET: The area of a site planned for development excluding major street
rights of way (arterials and collector streets), publicly dedicated
infrastructure improvements such as stormwater ponds and retention systems and
environmentally constrained lands including natural wetlands (as identified by
the NWI or other delineation), floodplains and open bodies of water. Net area
calculations include park land and open space. Net area is typically expressed
in acres or square feet.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning engines, motor
vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD: Any place where two (2) or more vehicles not in
running condition and/or not licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in the open
and are not being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure
used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof; and
including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles
or merchandise. See also definitions of Salvage Yard.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: Owner occupied accommodations in which rooms
for transient guests are rented on a nightly basis and where breakfast is
offered in connection with the provision of sleeping accommodations only.
BOUNDARY LINES: Any line indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel
of land; also a line separating the various use districts as shown on the
city's zoning map.
BUFFER: The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences or
landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from the
vision of another use or property.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and open
space requirements of this title have been met and minus any easements covering
the remaining space.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
BUILDING CODE: The building code adopted by the state of Minnesota.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT: The outline of a building drawn along the foundation at
grade level.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the adjacent property boundary line at any
story level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all or
any part of the building is set back from said boundary line.
BUILDING SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the building and the
lot line.
BUSINESS: Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
CAMPUS ORGANIZATION: A student association with national affiliation that is
recognized by and is in good standing with school officials.
CARPORT: A permanent roofed accessory structure designed for housing passenger
vehicles open on at least two sides and anchored into pavement.
CEMETERY: A site or property for the burial or interment of the dead.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body for the city of Moorhead.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: Residential development in which dwelling units are placed
on one lot in closer proximity than usual (clustered) with the purpose of
retaining a common open space area.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION: Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, billiards
(pool) hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline,
firearms range, boat rental, amusement rides, campgrounds, park and similar
uses.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Any open space including private parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A comprehensive plan prepared and approved by the city,
including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, fiscal
guidelines and maps indicating the general locations recommended for the
various functional classes of land use, places and structures, and for the
general physical development of the city, including any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
CONCEPT PLAN: A report in map and text form submitted as the first phase of a
planned unit development (PUD) proposal, depicting the location, general
purpose, general type of land use and circulation patterns, primary
relationships between site elements and between the proposed development and
surrounding development, proposed general schedule of development and
information on the applicant.
CONDITIONAL USE: Those occupations, vocations, skills, arts, businesses,
professions or uses specifically designated in each zoning use district, which
for the respective conduct or performance in such designated use districts may
require reasonable, but special, peculiar, unusual or extraordinary
limitations, facilities, plans, structures, conditions, modifications or
regulations in such use district for the promotion or preservation of the
general public welfare, health, convenience and the integrity of the city
comprehensive plan.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city council in accordance with
procedures specified in this title, as a flexibility device to enable the city
council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
CONDOMINIUM: A development or a structure housing two (2) or more dwelling
units which are individually owned and which have jointly owned and shared
areas and facilities, which dwelling or development is subject to the
provisions of the Minnesota condominium law.
COOPERATIVE (HOUSING): A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by the
residents and subject to the provisions of Minnesota statutes. The entire
structure and real property is under common ownership as contrasted to a
condominium dwelling where individual units are under separate individual
occupant ownership.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Moorhead.
COURT: An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on three (3)
or more sides by the walls of the buildings.
CROSS EASEMENTS: An easement created for the purpose of providing vehicular or
pedestrian access to a property primarily for use and maintenance needs.
CURB LEVEL: The elevation of the established curb in front of a building
measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been established,
the city engineer shall determine a curb level or its equivalent for the
purpose of this title.
DENSITY, GROSS: The total number of dwelling units within a development or plat
divided by the gross area of the development or plat. Gross density is
expressed in terms of units per acre.
DENSITY, NET: The total number of dwelling units within a development or plat
divided by the net area of the residential portions of the development or plat
(excluding parks, rights of way, floodable areas, and other nonbuildable
portions of the platted area). Net density is expressed in terms of units per
acre.
DENSITY, RESIDENTIAL: A number expressing the relationship of the number of
dwellings to an acre of land as established in the comprehensive plan.
DEPOSITION: Any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other material deposited naturally
or by man into a water body, watercourse, floodplain or wetland.
DIVERSION: A channel that intercepts surface water runoff and that changes the
accustomed course of all or part of a stream.
DRAINING: The removal of surface water or groundwater from land.
DREDGING: To enlarge or clean out a water body, watercourse or wetland.
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT: Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or serving
of food, refreshments or beverages on the premises, typically in the customer's
vehicle.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two- family, and multiple-family dwellings,
but not including hotels, motels or licensed nursing care facilities.
DWELLING, EFFICIENCY APARTMENT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal
room having bathing and cooking facilities used for combined living and
sleeping purposes.
DWELLING, MULTI- FAMILY: A building designed with three (3) or more dwelling
units exclusively for occupancy by three (3) or more families living
independently of each other. Includes townhouse/rowhouse, triplex and apartment
buildings.
DWELLING, MULTI- FAMILY - APARTMENT BUILDING: A building located on one lot,
designed with three (3) or more dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, MULTI- FAMILY - STACKED TRIPLEX: A single structure on one (1) lot
consisting of three (3) stacked dwelling units for occupancy by three (3)
families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, MULTI- FAMILY - TOWNHOUSE/ ROWHOUSE: A single structure on one (1) or
more lots consisting of three (3) or more side-by-side dwelling units having
one or more walls abutting with another dwelling unit for occupancy by three
(3) or more families living independently of each other and designed to have
all exits open directly to the outside.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling unit designed exclusively for occupancy by
one (1) family.
DWELLING, TWO- FAMILY STACKED DUPLEX: A single structure on one (1) lot
consisting of two (2) stacked dwelling units for two (2) separate families
living independently of each other.
DWELLING, TWO- FAMILY TWIN HOME OR NON-STACKED DUPLEX: A single structure on
one (1) or two (2) lots consisting of two (2) side by side dwelling units for
two (2) families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY (ADU): A detached residential dwelling unit in a
separate building located on the same lot as a principal dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy
by one (1) or more persons with facilities for bathing, cooking, living,
sleeping, but not including hotels, motels or licensed nursing care facilities.
DWELLING UNIT OCCUPANCY: Occupancy of a dwelling unit for the purpose of
enforcing provisions of this title shall be limited by restrictions as included
in the definition of "family" in this section.
EARTH BERM: An earth covering on the above grade portions of the building
walls.
EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING: A building so constructed that fifty percent (50%) or
more of the completed structure is covered with earth. Earth covering is
measured from the lowest level of the livable space in residential units and of
usable space in nonresidential buildings. An earth sheltered building is a
complete structure that does not serve just as a foundation or substructure for
above grade construction. A partially completed building shall not be
considered earth sheltered.
EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other than
the owner.
EFFICIENCY APARTMENT (DWELLING UNIT): A one room dwelling unit consisting of
one principal room having cooking facilities and used for combined living,
dining and sleeping purposes.
ELEVATOR PENTHOUSE: An enclosure located on the top of a building which houses
the working mechanisms of an elevator.
ENGINEER OF CITY OR CITY ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed or retained
by the city, unless otherwise stated.
EROSION: The wearing away of land surface by the action of natural elements.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE: The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments of underground or overhead telephone,
gas, electrical, steam, hot water, communication or water transmission,
distribution, collection, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by such private or
public utilities or municipal departments.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE STRUCTURES: Structures and buildings necessary for the
operation of essential services, including, but not limited to: telephone
buildings, telephone booths, gas regulator stations, substations, electrical
stations, water tanks and lift stations.
EXTERIOR STORAGE: The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
FAMILY: A. An individual; or
   B.   Two (2) or more persons, all of whom are related by blood, marriage,
adoption, guardianship or other duly authorized custodial relationship; or
   C.   Two (2) unrelated people and any children related to either of them, or
over whom they are guardians or have another duly authorized custodial
relationship; or
   D.   A group of not more than four (4) persons who need not be related by
blood, marriage, adoption, guardianship or other duly authorized custodial
relationship living together in a dwelling unit.
FARM: An unplatted tract of land having one quarter-quarter section containing
approximately ten (10) acres or more, or two (2) or more abutting parcels under
the same ownership having an area of approximately ten (10) acres, measured
from the centerline of abutting roads, for purposes of residential density
usually with a house and barn and other buildings, on which crops and often
livestock are raised for a source of livelihood.
FARM FENCE: An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire, further
defined by Minnesota Statutes, section 344.02, subd. 1(a-d), and is not
considered to be a structure under this subsection
10-17B-4-2 of this title. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood
flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures
under this title.
FARM, HOBBY: An unplatted tract of land generally consisting of ten (10) or
less acres in size with a house and accessory buildings, on which crops and
often livestock are raised, but not as a principal source of income. A hobby
farm shall not qualify for exemptions provided in this title for farms.
FARMING: Process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of crops
which shall include those necessary buildings, related to operating the farm,
and the keeping of common domestic farm animals.
FARMSTEAD: A dwelling unit surrounded by or connected to farm buildings, all
under single ownership.
FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL: The place of confined feeding of livestock or other
animals for food, fur, pleasure or resale purposes in yards, lots, pens,
buildings, or other areas not normally used for pasture or crops and in which
substantial amounts of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason
of such feeding of animals.
FENCE: Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing mark,
barrier or enclosure.
FENESTRATION: An architectural term referring to the arrangement of windows and
other nonopaque features of an exterior building wall.
FILLING: The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other material
so as to fill a water body, watercourse or wetland.
FIRE CODE: The fire code adopted by the state of Minnesota.
FLOOD RELATED:
   Accessory Use Or Structure: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
    Base Flood Elevation (BFE): The elevation of surface water resulting from a
flood that has a one percent (1%) probability of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year as determined by the federal emergency management
agency. The BFE is shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) as zone AE.
Base flood, regional flood, and 100-year flood are synonymous.
   Basement: Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having the upper
surface of its floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four (4)
sides, regardless of the depth of excavation below ground level.
   Equal Degree Of Encroachment: Method of determining the location of floodway
boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a river are capable of
conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   Farm Fence:An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire, further
defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d), and is not
considered to be a structure under this subsection 10-17B-4-2 of this
ordinance. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as
chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this
ordinance.
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
   Flood: A temporary increase in stream flow or stage that results in
inundation of the normally dry areas adjacent to the channel.
   Flood Frequency: The frequency, statistically determined, for which it is
expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   Flood Fringe: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the "Flood
Insurance Study For Clay County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas".
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): The "Flood Insurance Rate Map Clay County,
Minnesota And Incorporated Areas", dated April 17, 2012, and prepared by the
federal emergency management agency.
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS): The flood insurance study, Clay County,
Minnesota and incorporated areas dated April 17, 2012, and, prepared by the
federal emergency management agency.
   Floodplain: The river bed proper and area adjoining a watercourse which have
been or hereafter may be covered by the 100-year flood as determined by the use
of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in the flood
insurance study.
   Floodproofing: A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   Floodway: The channel of a watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry, store, and discharge the
regional flood as determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and other
supporting technical data in the flood insurance study.
   Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   Manufactured Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle".
   National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP): The program of flood insurance
coverage and floodplain management administered under the national flood
insurance act and applicable federal regulations promulgated in title 44 of the
code of federal regulations, subchapter B.
   Obstruction: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory special flood hazard area which may
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   100-Year Flood: A flood which is representative of large regional floods
known to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of
what has a one percent (1%) probability of occurring in any given year and can
be expected to occur with a frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval as determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and
other supporting technical data in the flood insurance study.
   Principal Use Or Structure: All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   Reach: A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two (2) consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
   Recreational Vehicle: A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, is designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as a temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use. For the purpose of floodplain regulations, the term recreational vehicle
shall be synonymous with the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
   Regional Flood: A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what has
a one percent (1%) probability of occurring in any given year and can be
expected to occur with a frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year recurrence
interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the term "base flood" used in a
flood insurance study.
   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: A point not less than one foot (1')
(freeboard) above the water surface profile associated with the 100-year flood
as determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and supporting technical
data in the flood insurance study plus any increase in flood heights
attributable to encroachments in the floodplain due to designation of the
floodway (stage increase). It is the elevation to which uses regulated by this
title are required to be elevated or floodproofed except for certain
residential basements as stipulated in section
10-17B-5 of this title.
   Repetitive Loss: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA): An area having special flood, mudflow, or
flood related erosion hazards, and shown on a flood insurance rate map as zone
AE.
   Structure: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in subsection
10-17B-6C3a of this title and other similar items.
   Substantial Damage: Any damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cumulative cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition
would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the initial damage occurred. The cost of restoration must include all
costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor regardless of the actual repair work performed.
   Substantial Improvement: Within any consecutive three hundred sixty five
(365) day period, any reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal
maintenance and repair), repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of
a structure, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
initial improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure". For the purpose of this title, "historic structure" shall be as
defined in 44 code of federal regulations, part 59.1.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of the
building or portion thereof devoted to a particular use, including accessory
storage areas located within selling or working space, such as retailing
activities, the production or processing of goods, or to business or
professional offices. However, the floor area shall not include: basement or
cellar floor area other than area devoted to retailing activities, the
production or processing of goods, to business or professional offices, or to
residential uses in multiple-family residential buildings. The floor area of a
residence shall not include the cellar area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO OR FAR: The ratio, expressed as a decimal fraction, of total
floor area of all floors in a building to the total lot area.
GARAGE, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL: An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used for customary residential
storage for private passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles and equipment,
and noncommercial trucks not exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) pounds’ gross
weight, for the family residing upon the premises.
GOVERNING BODY: The Moorhead city council.
GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION): The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet (5') from the building, between the building and line five feet (5') from
the building.
GRADING: Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
GROWTH AREA PLAN: A master plan for areas of the community that are planned for
urban services (sewer and water) within a five (5) to twenty (20) year time
period. Such plans outline in greater detail than the comprehensive plan
systems for major roadways, parks and open spaces, trail linkages, stormwater
systems and land use patterns. Growth area plans are an implementation tool of
the comprehensive plan.
HEALTH CLUB: A facility which provides athletic activities such as tennis,
handball, racquetball, track, basketball, exercise devices, etc., and such
incidental services as whirlpool, sauna or massage service for members and
guests.
HEIGHT, ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: The vertical distance measured from
the grade plane to the base of a primary side wall roof truss.
HEIGHT, PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: The vertical distance measured from
grade plane to the average height of the highest roof surface of the building
or structure.
HOME CARE AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES: Home care, housing with services,
assisted living and other housing service based establishments licensed by the
state of Minnesota department of health and/or department of human services.
HOME OCCUPATION: A permitted occupation or profession engaged in by the
occupant of a residential dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the premises and does not change the
character of said premises.
HOTEL: Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals and containing six (6) or more guestrooms, used,
designated, or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or which
are occupied by six (6) or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
HOUSING SHELTER; TEMPORARY HOUSING: A facility operated by the public or a
nonprofit charitable group or institution which provides one or more transient/
homeless persons with lodging and meals for short periods of time in a place
other than a person's own home.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A constructed hard surface that either prevents or retards
the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the surface in
greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, storage
areas; and concrete, asphalt, or gravel parking lots and roads. The city may
establish standards for exemptions or modifications to impervious surface area
as applied to pavers, pervious concrete or other materials that allow some
degree of stormwater infiltration.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA: The number of square feet of horizontal surface
covered by buildings and other impervious surfaces. All building measurements
shall be made between exterior faces of walls, foundations, columns or other
means of support or enclosure.
IMPOUND LOT: A place where impounded automobiles or trucks are temporarily
stored or kept in open space and/or within buildings. Does not include a
salvage yard.
IMPOUNDED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle which
constitutes an "abandoned motor vehicle" within the meaning of Minnesota
statutes 168B.
   B.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle which has been
towed or hauled at the direction of the Moorhead police department or any other
law enforcement agency as a result of a criminal, traffic or parking violation
occurring within the city.
   C.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle towed or hauled
at the request of the owner or person in possession of private property because
of improper parking or parking without permission upon such premises.
   D.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle towed or hauled
at the direction of the Moorhead police department or any other law enforcement
agency for any other reason other than accident, except vehicles towed to a
bona fide auto repair business for the purposes of mechanical repairs to be
made at such business.
   E.   Any motor vehicle, trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle which has been
towed or hauled from outside the city into the city for any of the reasons
listed in subsections A through D inclusive, of this definition.
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled; including, but
not limited to, scrap iron and other materials, paper rags, rubber, tires,
lumber, and bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not
include uses established entirely within closed buildings or sanitary
landfills. See definitions of Automobile Wrecking Or Junkyard and Salvage Yard.
KENNEL: Any lot, premises, dwelling or dwelling unit in which four (4) or more
dogs over the age of six (6) months are kept, harbored, owned or otherwise
possessed, either on a commercial basis or scale for boarding or breeding, or
on a private basis for personal use, enjoyment or profit. Kennel shall also
include the commercial boarding of any permitted animal in the city other than
at pet shops, veterinary clinics or animal shelters.
KENNEL, DAYCARE: An establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs,
cats and/or other household pets and where grooming, boarding, and/or training,
of animals is conducted.
LAND RECLAMATION: The process of the reestablishment of acceptable topography
(i.e., slopes), vegetative cover, soil stability and the establishment of safe
conditions appropriate to the subsequent use of the land.
LANDSCAPING: Plantings such as trees, flowers, grass and shrubs and
improvements directly related thereto.
LIVESTOCK: Any animals or poultry or other fowl except dogs, cats and birds
owned by the resident of the premises and kept as pets but not for commercial
sale except incidental to their character as pets.
LOADING SPACE: A space or berth on the same lot with a building, or contiguous
to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle
while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts upon a
street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LOT: A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street.
LOT AREA: The total land area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135o).
LOT DEPTH: The distance between the midpoints of straight lines connecting the
foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of the
side lot lines in the rear, except where the front or rear line is curved, the
distance between midpoints so measured shall not fall outside the lot itself.
LOT FRONT: The front of a lot shall be considered to be that boundary abutting
a public right of way having the least width. In a through lot where the lot
abuts a limited access street, the front of the lot will be on the street
opposite from the limited access street.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object,
or improvement of the land on which it is situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right
of way.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
LOT OF RECORD: Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly approved and
filed, or one unit of an auditor's outlot or a registered land survey, or a
parcel of land not so platted, subdivided or registered but for which a deed,
auditor's subdivision or registered land survey has been recorded in the office
of the register of deeds or registrar of titles for Clay County, Minnesota,
prior to the effective date of this title.
LOT, SUBSTANDARD: A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in
the office of the Clay County recorder upon or prior to the effective date of
this title which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure setbacks or
other dimensional standards of this title.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot fronting on two (2) nonintersecting streets.
LOT, UNIT: Lots created from the subdivisions of a two-family dwelling having
different minimum lot size requirements than the conventional base lots within
the zoning district.
LOT, WIDTH: The minimum required horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to the lot depth.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING: A manufactured building (or prefabricated structure) is
any structure manufactured in accordance with the requirements of the Minnesota
prefabricated structures and manufactured building code.
MANUFACTURED HOME LOT: A section of ground in a manufactured home park
designated as the location of one housing unit, and all other necessary
improvements required by this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME (or PREFABRICATED HOME or TINY/MICRO HOME): A structure,
transportable in one or more sections, which may or may not be built on a
permanent chassis designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent
foundation that meets Minnesota Building Codes for Prefabricated Buildings or
Industrialized/Modular Buildings or HUD Manufactured Homes.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any parcel designed, improved, maintained or intended
for the purpose of supplying a location for manufactured home dwelling units.
MASSAGE: The rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or rolling of the body with
the hands for the exclusive purposes of relaxation, physical fitness or
beautification, and for no other purposes, for a fee or for compensation,
direct or indirect.
MASSAGE PARLOR: The place of business or location where the practice of massage
is carried out.
MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINICS: A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations, pharmacies and other medical service available to the
public. This service is provided without overnight care available.
MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
not incorporated, for some common purpose, but not including groups organized
primarily to render a service carried on as a business.
METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION: A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
MINERALS: Soil, clay, stone, sand and gravel and other similar solid material
or substance to be mined from natural deposits.
MINING: All or part of the process involved in the extraction of minerals by
removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral deposits
thereby exposed.
MIXED USE (HORIZONTAL): Mixed use that is horizontal in nature, includes two
(2) or more uses that are located on the same parcel and are connected through
design by either a pedestrian corridor, shared parking facility or other
functional or physical design feature.
MIXED USE (VERTICAL): Mixed use that is oriented in a vertical or "stacked"
orientation is defined as a development with two (2) or more significant income
producing uses with functional and physical integration. In most cases, income
producing uses include housing, retail, office or lodging facilities.
Functional or physical integration includes a design pattern that seeks to
share common spaces and features of a development such as, parking and open
space.
MOTEL/MOTOR HOTEL: A building or group of detached, semidetached or attached
buildings containing guestrooms or units, each of which has a separate entrance
directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with garage or parking
space conveniently located next to each unit, and which is designed, used or
intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests
traveling by automobile.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR FUEL STATION: A place where motor fuels, kerosene or motor oil and
lubricants or grease, for operation of automobiles, are retailed directly to
the public on premises, including minor accessories and services for
automobiles, and one stall car washes provided at least three (3) stacking
spaces are provided for cars, but not including automobile major repairs and
rebuilding.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A self-propelled vehicle that does not run on rails.
NONCOMMERCIAL OPINION SIGNS: A sign which does not advertise products, goods,
businesses or services and which expresses an opinion or other point of view.
An electric sign may not be used in residential districts as a noncommercial
opinion sign.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE OR LOT; ILLEGAL: A building, structure, premises,
lot or use unlawfully established and in violation of regulations applicable at
the time of development or initiation.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE OR LOT; LEGAL: A building, structure, premises,
lot or use lawfully established prior to the adoption of this title or any
amendment thereto which does not now conform with the applicable conditions or
provisions of this title for the district in which the structure or use is
located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIAL: Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, LANDSCAPE: A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs.
OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a building is used or intended to be used. The
term shall also include the building or room housing such use. Change of
occupancy is not intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
OFF STREET PARKING SPACE: An area of such shape and dimensions as provided by
this title, enclosed in the principal building, in an accessory building, or
unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one motor vehicle, which has adequate
access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and
egress of an automobile.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land devoted to the display of goods for purchase, sale, rent,
lease or trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building, and for the
storage of same prior to sale.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area not covered by structures, but not limited to the
following uses: required or established yard areas, parking areas, sidewalks,
schoolwalks, trails, recreation areas, water bodies, shorelands, watercourses,
wetlands, ground water recharge areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe,
erodible slopes, woodland and soils with severe limitation for development.
OPEN STORAGE: Storage of material outside of a building.
OUTLOT: A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other future use, for which no building permit shall
be issued.
OUTPATIENT CARE: Medical examination or service available to the public in a
hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall be
considered a separate, independent, principal use when combined or operated in
conjunction with a hospital.
OVERBURDEN: The earth, rock and other materials that lie above a natural
deposit of mineral.
OWNER: An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity holding an equitable or legal ownership interest in
land, buildings, structures, dwelling unit(s) or other property.
PARCEL: An individual lot or tract of land.
PARKING LOT: An enclosed or unenclosed area used for the temporary parking of
four (4) or more motor vehicles.
PARKING, SHARED: The development and use of a parking space or parking lot by
two (2) or more separate businesses.
PARKING STALL: A space or area that is permanently reserved and maintained for
the parking of one motor vehicle.
PARTY WALL/COMMON WALL: A wall which divides two (2) independent structures by
a fire wall which can be placed along a zero-lot line (zero-foot interior side
yard setback).
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: Criterion established for setbacks, fencing, landscaping,
screening, drainage, accessory buildings, outside storage and to control noise,
odor, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare
or heat or other nuisance elements generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
PERMITTED USE: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular district
or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and
performance standards (if any) of such districts.
PERSON: Any individual or legal entity.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   As a conditional use permit, a development procedure whereby internal
site design standard deviations from this title may be allowed in order to
accommodate two (2) or more principal structures and/or facilities and/or to
improve site design and operation.
   B.   As a zoning district, a development procedure whereby a mixing of
buildings and uses can occur which cannot be otherwise addressed under this
title, and/or whereby internal site design standard deviations from this title
may be allowed to improve site design and operation.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Moorhead planning commission.
POLE BUILDINGS: Any structure possessing the following characteristics:
structural wood poles or timbers buried inground on individual footings; metal
wall coverings hung vertically of less than 28-gauge. Such definition shall not
include or apply to decks, sign supports, earth retention structures,
playground equipment, electric utilities or any similar structure not covering
or enclosing a specific area.
PREFABRICATED HOME: See definition of Manufactured Home (Mobile Home).
PREFABRICATED STRUCTURE: See definition of Manufactured Building.
PROJECTING ELEMENTS: Any features of a building or structure that extend beyond
walls or roof. Examples include chimneys, sills, eaves, gutters, entryways,
balconies, decks, porches, open fire balconies, open fire escapes, window
wells, stairs, stoops and ramps. Ground- mounted projections may not encroach
into easements.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between all owners and holders of
mortgages constituting a restriction on the use of property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners.
PROVISIONAL USES: Uses that are permitted as of right provided they meet
certain specific approval criteria as stipulated in this title.
PUBLIC USES: Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public purpose,
as defined in Minnesota statutes, not including, however, a lake, pond or
flowage of less than ten (10) acres in size or a river or stream having a total
drainage area less than two (2) square miles. In addition, bodies of water
created by private users, where there was not previous shoreland (for a
designated private use authorized by the commissioner of natural resources)
shall also not be considered public waters. The official determination of the
size and physical limits of the drainage areas of rivers and streams shall be
made by the commissioner of natural resources. The official size of lakes,
ponds, or flowage shall be the areas listed in the division of waters, soils
and minerals bulletin 25, an inventory of Minnesota lakes, or in the event that
lakes, ponds or flowage are not listed therein, official determination of size
and physical limits shall be made by the commissioner in cooperation with the
city of Moorhead.
PUBLICATION: Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of the topic.
RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING: An area of land, water, or any building in which
amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semipublic
use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether provision is
made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus or gymnasium is a recreation field or building
for the purpose of this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: See definition in title 9, chapter 8 of this code.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS: Religious uses and buildings, together with their
accessory uses and buildings, where persons regularly assemble for religious
worship and other purposes.
RESTAURANT: An establishment which serves food to be consumed primarily while
seated at tables or booths within the building.
RETAIL: The sale of items in small quantities directly to the consumer.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled; including, auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used material yards, but not including,
pawnshops, antique shops, purchase or storage of used furniture and household
equipment or the selling of used cars in operable condition. See also
definitions of Automobile Salvage Yard.
SCHOOL: A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary education,
which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the state of
Minnesota, and not providing residential accommodations.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A commercial building or group of buildings that
contain varying sizes of individual compartmentalized and controlled access
stalls or lockers for the storage of customers' goods or wares.
SEMIPUBLIC USE: Uses owned by private or private nonprofit organizations which
are open to some, but not all, of the public, such as private schools,
membership organizations, recreation facilities, religious institutions, and
the like.
SEPTIC SEWER SYSTEM: A septic sewer disposal system consists of: septic tank,
absorption field or standard trenches or a dry well, house sewer and outlet
sewer. In the septic tank, bacterial action breaks down sewage. Standard
trenches or a dry well handles final disposal of liquid from the septic tank.
The house sewer brings wastes to the tank and the outlet sewer carries sewage
liquids (effluent) from the absorption field.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the property
line nearest thereto; within shore land districts it shall also mean the
minimum horizontal distance between a structure or a sanitary facility and the
normal high water mark. For purposes of earth shelter buildings only, above
grade portions shall be used in determining setback requirements. Distances are
to be measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at
ground level, except as provided hereinafter.
SHOPPING CENTER: An integrated grouping of commercial stores, under single
ownership or control.
SIGN: Any letter, word, symbol, device, poster, picture, statuary, reading
matter or representation in the nature of an advertisement, announcement,
message or visual communication whether painted, pasted, printed, affixed or
constructed which is displayed outdoors for informational or communicative
purposes. It shall include, but not be limited to, the following types and
purposes of signs: advertising, area identification, business, directional,
flashing, freestanding, illuminated, institutional, nameplate, pylon, rotating,
swinging, temporary and traffic control.
SITE PLAN: A map drawn to scale depicting the development of a tract of land,
including, but not limited to, the location and relationship of structures,
streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking areas, utilities, landscaping,
and walkways, as related to a proposed development.
SLOPE: The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Any solar collector or other solar device or any
structural design of a building whose primary purpose is to collect, convert
and store solar energy for useful purposes including heating and cooling of
buildings, domestic water heating, electric power generation and other energy
using processes.
STACKING AREA: That area which allows for a line of automobiles in such
instances as drive-up tellers and other vehicle service areas.
STREET: A public right of way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, throughway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court or otherwise designated, which has been
dedicated or deeded to the public for public use and which affords principal
means of access to abutting property.
STREET PAVEMENT: The wearing or exposed surface of a street or roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the curb lines of a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong, or modify the life of the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE, PARKING: A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a “private residential garage”, used for the storage of motor
vehicles.
STRUCTURE: Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character. Among other things, structures include buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, swimming pools, billboards and poster
panels.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under Minnesota state laws.
TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTHCARE DWELLING: A mobile residential dwelling providing
an environment facilitating a caregiver's provision of care for a mentally or
physically impaired person that meets the requirements of Minnesota statutes
462.3593.
TINY OR MICRO HOME: See definition of Manufactured Home.
TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL: Taxi, air, train, bus and mass transit terminal and
storage areas.
TRUCK STOP: A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of trucks and
which shall include eating and/or sleeping facilities.
USABLE OPEN SPACE: A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
usable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
usable open space.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this title.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where such
deviation will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions unique to the individual property under consideration and not the
result of the actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. A variance shall not be
permitted for the establishment or expansion of a use.
VETERINARY CLINIC: Those uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment and
medical care of animals including animal or pet hospitals.
WAREHOUSING: The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed building.
WATER BODY: A body of water (lake, pond) or a depression of land or expanded
part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is surrounded by
land.
WATERSHED: The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
WETLANDS: An area where water stands near, at, or above the soil surface during
a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting a
predominantly aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
   A.   Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic), bog, fen, sedge
meadow, shrubland, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and northern
lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities. (These communities correspond
roughly to wetland types 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 described by the United States
fish and wildlife services, circular 39, wetlands of the U.S., 1956.)
   B.   Mineral soils with gley horizons or organic soils belonging to the
histosol order (peat and muck).
   C.   Soil which is waterlogged or covered with water at least three (3)
months of the year.
Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, wet meadows and sloughs are wetlands, and such
property, may be shallow water bodies, the waters of which are stagnant or
actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be sufficiently dry to
permit tillage, but would require drainage to be made arable. The edge of a
wetland is commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
WHOLESALING: The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to another
business that in turn sells to the final customer.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): Any device that is designed to convert
wind power to another form of energy such as electricity, mechanical or heat
(also referred to by such common names as wind charger, wind turbine and
windmill).
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and
main building shall be used.
YARD, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the line of a building and
the lot line.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full length of a front lot line between
side lot lines and to the depth of the front building line of the principal
building.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A yard between the principal or accessory building and the
side lot line extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending between the rear line of the principal or
accessory building and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the
lot.
YARD, REQUIRED: That distance specified in the yard requirements pertaining to
setbacks. Setbacks and required yards are used interchangeably.
YARD, STREET SIDE: A corner lot yard adjacent to the street that is not the
front yard between the principal or accessory building and the side lot line
extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
ZERO LOT LINE (ZERO-FOOT INTERIOR SIDE YARD SETBACK): The reduction of an
interior side yard setback requirements to zero, permitting the placement of a
structure near or adjacent to the interior side yard lot line. With zero lot
line, no portion of the structure or accessory appurtenance shall project over
the lot line.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The duly appointed officer charged with the
administration and enforcement of this title.
ZONING AMENDMENT: A change authorized by the city either in the allowed use
within a district or in the boundaries of the district.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the zoning map)
set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for use
and development as defined by this title.
ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAY: A zoning district containing regulations superimposed
upon other zoning district regulations and superseding the underlying zoning
district use regulations.
ZONING DISTRICT UNDERLYING: All zoning districts except overlay zoning
districts.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as part thereof,
designating the zoning districts. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2005-31,
12-5-2005; Ord. 2006-27, 9-5-2006; Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007; Ord. 2007-3, 3-5-
2007; Ord. 2008-26, 12-8-2008; Ord. 2008-28, 1-12-2009; Ord. 2010-9, 8-23-2010;
Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012; Ord. 2013-08, 6-24-2013; Ord. 2016-17, 10-11-2016; Ord.
2016-21, 12-12-2016; Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2020-08, 8-24-2020; Ord.
2022-06, 3-28-2022; Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024; Ord. 2024-03, 7-22-2024; Ord.
2024-04, 6-24-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION; AMENDMENTS (TEXT AND MAP)
SECTION:
10-3-1: Amendments To Zoning Ordinance
10-3-2: Amendments; Initiation
10-3-3: Procedure
10-3-4: Appeals
10-3-1: AMENDMENTS TO ZONING ORDINANCE:
The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this title may, from
time to time, be amended, supplemented, changed or repealed; provided, however,
that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in relation
thereto, at which parties with interest and citizens shall have an opportunity
to be heard. At least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.
Any action taken pursuant to this section shall be in compliance and accordance
with the rules and regulations of the Department of Natural Resources, State of
Minnesota, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
10-3-2: AMENDMENTS; INITIATION:
The Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate a
request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this title. The
procedural requirements of subsections
10-3-3A, B and C of this chapter shall not apply to such proposed amendments
except to the extent required by State Statute. Any person owning real estate
or having documented interest therein, within the City may initiate a request
to amend the district and map boundaries or text of this title, so as to affect
the said real estate. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-3-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Requests For Amendment: Requests for zoning amendments (text or map)
shall be filed with the City on an official application form. Such application
shall be accompanied by a fee as provided by Council resolution, pursuant to
section
10-1-11 of this chapter. The City, after receipt and review of the application,
shall have the authority to request additional information from the applicant
which it deems is necessary for a proper review by the Planning Commission. The
request for amendment shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special
meeting of the Planning Commission to occur no later than sixty (60) days from
the date of submission of the application.
   B.   Proof Of Ownership Or Authorization: The applicant shall supply proof
of title of the property for which the rezoning is requested, which proof of
title must be satisfactory to the City and authorization if other than owner.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of said application, the City shall set a
public hearing. The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report
its findings and recommendations to the Council. Notice of said hearing shall
consist of a legal property description and summary description of the request,
and shall be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior
to the hearing. A written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three hundred fifty
feet (350') of the property in question, unless the rezoning shall affect an
area of fifty (50) acres or more when, in such case, no mailed notice shall be
required. A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and
addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the
record of the proceeding. (Ord. 2018-09, 5-29-2018)
   D.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of a property owner to receive said
notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this title
provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this section.
   E.   Consideration Of Amendment: The Planning Commission and Council shall
consider possible adverse effects of the proposed amendment. The determination
of the Planning Commission shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following factors:
      1.   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the
official City comprehensive plan.
      2.   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future
land uses of the area and with special plans, growth area plans and/or
redevelopment plans that may have been adopted or appended to the comprehensive
plan.
      3.   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained
herein (i.e., parking, loading, noise, etc.).
      4.   The proposed use will not have an adverse effect upon the area in
which it is proposed.
      5.   The proposed use will not depreciate the property value of the area
in which it is proposed.
      6.   Traffic generation by the proposed use within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
      7.   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing or future public
services and facilities including parks, streets, and utilities, and will not
overburden the city's service capacity.
   F.   Additional Information: The planning commission shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant. Failure by the
applicant to supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for
denial of the request.
   G.   Questions: The applicant or a representative thereof may appear before
the planning commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
request.
   H.   Approval Or Denial: The planning commission shall recommend approval or
denial of the request.
   I.   Planning Commission Report: The council shall not act upon an amendment
until they have received a report and recommendation from the planning
commission or until forty five (45) days after the date of the regular/special
planning commission meeting at which the request was first considered after the
formal application was filed.
   J.   Placement On Agenda: Upon completion of the report and recommendation
of the planning commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the
next regular/special council meeting. Such reports and recommendations shall be
entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the council
meeting.
   K.   Optional Hearing: Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the
planning commission, the council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing if deemed necessary.
   L.   Conflicts; Further Consideration: If, upon receiving said report and
recommendation of the planning commission, the council finds that specific
inconsistencies exist in the review process and thus the final recommendation
of the council will differ from that of the planning commission, the council
may before taking final action, refer the matter back to the planning
commission for further consideration. The council shall provide the planning
commission with a written statement detailing the specific reasons for
referral. This procedure shall be allowed only one time on a singular action.
   M.   Vote Of Council: Approval of a proposed amendment shall require passage
by an ordinance with a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire council for any
zoning map amendment from a residential zoning district to either a commercial
or industrial zoning district. Zoning ordinance text amendments and zoning map
amendments for all other zoning district changes will require a majority vote
of all members of the city council.
   N.   Effective Date: The amendment shall not become effective until such
time as the council approves an ordinance reflecting said amendment and after
said ordinance is published in the official newspaper.
   O.   Denied Applications: Whenever an application for an amendment has been
considered and denied by the council, a similar application and proposal for an
amendment affecting the same property shall not be considered again by the
planning commission or council for at least one year from the date of its
denial except as follows:
      1.   Applications are withdrawn prior to the council taking final action
on the request.
      2.   If the council determines that the circumstances surrounding a
previous application have changed significantly.
      3.   If the council decides to reconsider such matter by a vote of not
less than a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the entire council. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
10-3-4: APPEALS:
Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city
aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the right to seek
review within forty five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota statutes chapter 462, as such statute may be, from time
to time, amended, supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 4
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Initiation
10-4-3: Procedure
10-4-4: Application
10-4-5: Amended Conditional Use Permits
10-4-6: Lapse Of Conditional Use Permits
10-4-7: Appeals
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the city with discretion
in determining the suitability of certain designated uses upon the general
welfare, public health and safety. In making this determination, whether or not
the conditional use is land or buildings, the effect upon traffic into and from
the premises, or on any adjoining roads, and all other or further factors as
the city shall deem a prerequisite of consideration in determining the effect
of the use on the general welfare, public health and safety. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-
3-2005)
10-4-2: INITIATION:
The council or the planning commission may, upon their own motion, initiate a
request for a conditional use permit in conformance with the provisions of this
title. Any person owning real estate or having documented interest therein, may
initiate a request for a conditional use permit for said real estate in
conformance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-4-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Permit: Request for conditional use permits shall be filed
with the city on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by the city's fee schedule. The city, after
receipt and review of the application, shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant which it deems is necessary for a
proper review by the planning commission. The request for a conditional use
permit shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special meeting of the
planning commission to occur no later than sixty (60) days from the date of
submission. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff.
retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   B.   Proof Of Ownership Or Authorization: The applicant shall supply proof
of title and the legal description of the property for which the conditional
use permit is requested, which proof of title must be satisfactory to the city.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of said application, the city shall set a
public hearing. The planning commission shall conduct the hearing, and report
its findings and make recommendations to the council. Notice of said hearing
shall consist of a legal property description and summary description of
request, and be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. A written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three hundred
fifty feet (350') of the boundary of the property in question. A copy of the
hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the
notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of the
proceeding.
   D.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of a property owner to receive said
notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this title
provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this section.
   E.   Consideration Of Conditional Use: The planning commission and council
shall consider possible adverse effects of the proposed conditional use. Their
judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the following factors:
      1.   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of, and has been found to be consistent with, the
official city comprehensive plan and with the purposes of the zoning district
in which the applicant intends to locate the proposed use.
      2.   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future
uses of the area.
      3.   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained
herein (i.e., parking, loading, noise, etc.).
      4.   The proposed use will not tend to or actually have an adverse effect
on the area in which it is proposed.
      5.   Traffic generated by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
      6.   The proposed use can be accommodated by public services and
facilities including parks, schools, streets and utilities, and will not
overburden the city's service capacity.
      7.   If a conditional use involves a religious institution, the planning
commission and council shall specifically be prohibited from considering the
religious tenets, beliefs or affiliation, if any, of the religious institution,
its leaders or members.
   F.   Additional Information: The planning commission shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant or to retain
expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant. Failure
by the applicant to supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds
for denial of the request.
   G.   Questions: The applicant or a representative thereof may appear before
the planning commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed
request.
   H.   Finding Of Fact: The planning commission shall make a finding of fact
and recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of the title.
   I.   Plan Commission Report: The council shall not grant a conditional use
permit until they have received a report and recommendation from the planning
commission or until sixty (60) days after the date of the regular/special
planning commission meeting at which the request was first considered after the
formal application was filed.
   J.   Placement On Agenda: Upon completion of the report and recommendation
of the planning commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the
next regular/special council meeting. Such reports and recommendations shall be
entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the council
meeting.
   K.   Optional Hearing: Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the
planning commission, the council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing if deemed necessary and shall make a recorded finding of fact and may
impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   L.   Conflicts; Further Consideration: If, upon receiving said report and
recommendation of the planning commission, the council finds that specific
inconsistencies exist in the review process and thus the final recommendation
of the council will differ from that of the planning commission, the council
may, before taking final action, refer the matter back to the planning
commission for further consideration. The council shall provide the planning
commission with a written statement detailing the specific reasons for
referral. This procedure shall be allowed only one time on a singular action.
   M.   Vote Of Council: Approval of a request shall require passage of a
resolution with the affirmative vote of a majority of all the members of the
council.
   N.   Denied Applications: Whenever an application for a conditional use
permit has been considered and denied by the council, a similar application for
the conditional use permit affecting the same property shall not be considered
again by the planning commission or council for at least one year from the date
of its denial, except as follows:
      1.   Applications are withdrawn prior to council taking final action on
the request.
      2.   If the planning commission determines that the circumstances
surrounding a previous application have changed significantly.
      3.   If the council decides to reconsider such matter by a vote of not
less than a majority of all the members of the council. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019)
10-4-4: APPLICATION:
The conditional use permit and the stipulations, limitations and conditions
therein shall be applied to the property in question. The city council, if so
stated in formal action, may determine it necessary for or appropriate to serve
the purposes of the comprehensive plan, the zoning code and to protect the
public health, safety and welfare to also apply the stipulations, limitations
and conditions:
   A.   To the property in question, limited to the present owner.
   B.   To the property in question, for a specified time period. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005)
10-4-5: AMENDED CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
An amended conditional use permit may be applied for and administered in a
manner similar to that required for a new conditional use permit except that
the planning commission may, upon written application and with approval by all
members present, authorize minor changes in location, siting and heights of
buildings or structures or an increase in overall coverage of buildings and
structures; however, no change authorized by this section shall cause any of
the following:
   A.   A change in the use or character of the development.
   B.   An increase in intensity of use.
   C.   An increase in traffic circulation.
   D.   A reduction in off street parking and loading spaces.
   E.   A reduction in required pavement widths. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-4-6: LAPSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
Where applicable, unless otherwise specified by the city council at the time it
is authorized, a conditional use permit shall expire if the applicant fails to
utilize such conditional use permit and fulfill each and every condition
attached thereto within one year from the date of its authorization unless a
petition for an extension of time in which to complete or utilize the use has
been granted by the city council. Such extension shall be requested in writing
and filed with the city at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of the
original conditional use permit. The request for extension shall state the
reasons for which the extension is sought. Such petition shall be presented to
the planning commission for the purpose of advising the city council. The city
council will make the final decision on the request. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-4-7: APPEALS:
Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city
aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the right to seek
review within forty five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state, and particularly
Minnesota statutes 462, as such statutes may be from time to time amended,
supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 5
VARIANCES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Procedures
10-5-3: General Provisions And Standards
10-5-4: Lapse Of Variance
10-5-5: Joint Hearing For Variance And Conditional Use Permit
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for deviations from the literal
provisions of this title in instances where their strict enforcement would
cause practical difficulties because of circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration, and to grant such variances only when it is
demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
this title. "Practical difficulties", as used in connection with the granting
of a variance, means that the property owner proposed to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. A variance shall not be permitted for the establishment or
expansion of a use. (Ord. 2011-06, 6-27-2011)
10-5-2: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Request for variances, as provided within this title, shall be filed
with the city on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by the city's fee schedule. The city, after
receipt and review of the application, shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant which it deems is necessary for a
proper review by the board of adjustment and appeals. The request for variance
shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special meeting of the board of
adjustment and appeals to occur no later than sixty (60) days from the date of
submission of the application.
   B.   Upon receipt of said application, the board of adjustment and appeals
shall set a public hearing. Written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the property in question. A copy of the hearing
notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of the proceeding.
   C.   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not invalidate
any such proceedings as set forth within this title provided a bona fide
attempt has been made to comply with the notice requirements of this section.
   D.   The city and board of adjustment and appeals shall have the authority
to request additional information from the applicant or to retain expert
testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant. Failure by an
applicant to supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for
denial of the request.
   E.   The applicant or representative thereof may appear before the board of
adjustment and appeals to answer questions concerning the proposed variance.
   F.   The board of adjustment and appeals shall make findings of fact and
shall decide whether to approve or deny a request for variance within sixty
(60) days after the public hearing on said request.
   G.   A variance to this title shall not be granted unless approved by the
votes of a majority of the members of the board of adjustment and appeals.
   H.   To appeal the decision of the board of adjustment and appeals, a
written notice of appeal must be filed with the city within forty five (45)
days of the decision of the board of adjustment and appeals. Appeals to the
city council and appeals from the city council's decision shall be in
accordance with the procedures for appeals from the board of adjustment and
appeals set forth in section
10-7-6 of this title.
   I.   Whenever a variance has been considered and denied, a similar
application and proposal for the variance affecting the same property shall not
be considered again by the board of adjustment and appeals or council for at
least one year from the date of its denial, except as follows:
      1.   If the board of adjustment and appeals determines that the
circumstances surrounding the previous variance application have changed
significantly.
      2.   If the board of adjustment and appeals decides to reconsider such
matter by a vote of not less than a majority of its members.
   J.   If a request for a variance is approved, the applicant shall record the
variance with the Clay County recorder, and furnish the city proof of such
filing or shall provide the city the necessary recording fees for the city to
record the variance with the Clay County recorder. No building permit will be
granted until proof of recording is furnished to the city. If the variance is
not recorded within sixty (60) days of its approval, it shall be deemed null
and void unless an extension for recording is granted by the city manager or
his/her designee. (Ord. 2011-06, 6-27-2011)
10-5-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment And Appeals: The planning commission shall serve as
the board of adjustment and appeals.
   B.   Review Criteria: Conditions governing considerations of variance
requests:
      1.   In considering all requests for a variance, the board of adjustment
and appeals shall make a finding of fact that the proposed action will not:
         a.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property.
         b.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in the public street.
         c.   Have the effect of allowing any district uses prohibited therein,
permit a lesser degree of flood protection than the flood protection elevation
for the particular area, or permit standards which are lower than those
required by state law.
         d.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
         e.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the neighborhood, or in any way be contrary to the intent of this title.
         f.   Violate the intent and purpose of the comprehensive plan.
         g.   Violate any of the terms or conditions of subsection B2 of this
section.
      2.   A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted unless
it can be demonstrated that:
         a.   Practical difficulties will result if the variance is denied due
to the existence of special conditions and unique circumstances which are
peculiar to the land, structure, or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the same district.
            (1)   Special conditions and unique circumstances may include
exceptional topographic or water conditions or, in the case of an existing lot
or parcel of record, narrowness, shallowness, insufficient area or shape of the
property.
            (2)   Practical difficulties caused by the special conditions and
unique circumstances may not be solely economic in nature, if a reasonable use
of the property exists under the terms of this title.
            (3)   Special conditions and unique circumstances causing practical
difficulties shall not be a result of lot size when the lot qualifies as a
buildable parcel.
         b.   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title or deny the applicant the ability
to put the property in question to a reasonable use.
         c.   The special conditions and unique circumstances causing the
practical difficulties do not result from the actions of the applicant.
         d.   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
a special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands, structures or
buildings in the same district under the same conditions.
         e.   The request is not a result of nonconforming lands, structures or
buildings in the same district.
         f.   The request is not a use variance.
         g.   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to
accomplish the intended purpose of the applicant.
         h.   Granting the request would not alter the essential character of
the neighborhood.
      3.   Should the board of adjustment and appeals find that the conditions
outlined heretofore apply to the proposed lot or parcel, the board of
adjustment and appeals may grant a variance from the strict application of this
title so as to relieve such difficulties or hardships to the degree considered
reasonable, provided such relief may be granted without impairing the intent of
this title.
      4.   In approving a variance, the board of adjustment and appeals may set
a date by which work must be commenced and a date by which the work must be
substantially completed. If those guidelines are not met, the variance shall
become null and void. If the time for completion is less than one year, an
extension may be granted, in writing, by the zoning administrator of the city.
If the time for completion is one year or over, the procedure in section
10-5-4 of this chapter must be followed for an extension.
      5.   The board of adjustment and appeals may impose conditions for the
granting of variances. Conditions must be directly related to and must bear a
rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance. (Ord. 2011-06, 6-
27-2011)
10-5-4: LAPSE OF VARIANCE:
Unless otherwise specified by the city, if within one year after granting a
variance the work as allowed by the variance shall not have been substantially
completed, then such a variance shall become null and void unless a petition
for an extension of time in which to complete or utilize the use has been
granted by the board of adjustment and appeals. Such extension shall be
requested in writing and filed with the city at least thirty (30) days before
the expiration of the original variance or appeal. The fee, if any, for filing
of such petition shall be set by the city council by resolution. The request
for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the
use permitted in the variance. Such petition shall be presented to the board of
adjustment and appeals for decision. (Ord. 2011-06, 6-27-2011)
10-5-5: JOINT HEARING FOR VARIANCE AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
If an applicant needs a variance as well as a conditional use for the same
property, the city may put out one joint notice, and the board of adjustment
and appeals and planning commission may hold a joint meeting at which they have
a joint hearing on both matters. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board of
adjustment and appeals should vote on the variance, and the planning commission
shall vote separately on the conditional use permit. (Ord. 2011-06, 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 6
PROVISIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Initiation
10-6-3: Procedure
10-6-4: Application
10-6-5: Lapse Of Provisional Use Permits
10-6-6: Appeals
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a provisional use permit is to provide the city and its
residents with certainty relating to the impacts of specified uses upon the
general welfare, public health and safety. In making this determination, the
planning and zoning administrator shall evaluate the proposed use with those
standards as are clearly specified within this title in determining the effect
of the use on the general welfare, public health and safety. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-
3-2005)
10-6-2: INITIATION:
Any person owning real estate or having documented interest therein, may
initiate a request for a provisional use permit for said real estate in
conformance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-6-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Request For Permit: Request for provisional use permits shall be filed
with the city on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by the city's fee schedule. The city, after
receipt and review of the application, shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant which it deems is necessary for a
proper review by the planning and zoning administrator. Review and
determination by the planning and zoning administrator shall occur no later
than sixty (60) days from the date of full application. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008, eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   B.   Proof Of Ownership Or Authorization: The applicant shall supply proof
of title and the legal description of the property for which the provisional
use permit is requested, which proof of title must be satisfactory to the city.
   C.   Consideration Of Provisional Use: The planning and zoning administrator
shall consider possible adverse effects of the proposed provisional use.
Judgment shall be based upon those factors identified within this title.
   D.   Additional Information: The planning and zoning administrator shall
have the authority to request additional information from the applicant or to
retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant in
making his/her determination. Failure by the applicant to supply all necessary
supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
   E.   Determination By Planning And Zoning Administrator: Approval of a
request shall require written approval by the planning and zoning
administrator. No provisional use shall be allowed without said approval. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-6-4: APPLICATION:
The provisional use permit and the stipulations, limitations and conditions
therein shall be applied to the property in question. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-6-5: LAPSE OF PROVISIONAL USE PERMITS:
Where applicable, unless otherwise specified by the planning and zoning
administrator at the time it is authorized, a provisional use permit shall
expire if the applicant fails to utilize such provisional use permit and
fulfill each and every provision attached thereto within one year from the date
of its authorization. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-6-6: APPEALS:
Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city
aggrieved by the decision of the planning and zoning administrator shall have
the right to seek review within forty five (45) days of the decision with the
board of adjustment and appeals. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Board Designation
10-7-2: Applicability
10-7-3: Filing
10-7-4: Stay Of Proceedings
10-7-5: Procedure
10-7-6: Appeals From Board Of Adjustment And Appeals
10-7-1: BOARD DESIGNATION:
The planning commission shall serve as the board of adjustment and appeals and
their terms shall run concurrently with their terms on the planning commission.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-7-2: APPLICABILITY:
An appeal shall only be applicable to an interpretation of legislative intent
of provisions of this title. Opinions and evaluations as it pertains to the
impact or result of a request are not subject to the appeal procedure. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-7-3: FILING:
   A.   An appeal from the ruling of an administrative officer of the city must
be filed with the city by the property owner or their agent within thirty (30)
days after the making of the order appealed from.
   B.   Any appeal filed shall be comprehensive and include all matters subject
to question. Subsequent appeals filed by the same individual or group which are
intended to cause unjustifiable delay shall not be accepted by the city. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-7-4: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action being appealed
unless it is certified to the board of adjustment and appeals, after the notice
of appeal is filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay
would cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may be granted by a
court of record on application to the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-7-5: PROCEDURE:
The procedure for making such an appeal shall be as follows:
   A.   The property owner or their agent shall file with the city a written
notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made.
The person filing the appeal shall be given written notice of a hearing date
and be able to appear and testify at such hearing. Such hearing shall be held
within sixty (60) days of the filing of the appeal. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
   B.   The filing of an appeal shall be accompanied by a fee as established by
the city's fee schedule. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-30, 1-7-2008,
eff. retroactive to 1-1-2008)
   C.   The ruling appealed from shall stand unless a majority of all members
of the board of adjustment and appeals by resolution vote to overturn or modify
the prior ruling within sixty (60) days of the hearing.
   D.   The board of adjustment and appeals shall make its decision by
resolution within sixty (60) days of the hearing. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-7-6: APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS:
Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city
aggrieved by any decision of the board of adjustment and appeals, shall have
the right to seek review within forty five (45) days of the decision with the
city council of the city. Any appeal must be filed, in writing, with the city
clerk within the forty five (45) day period, and such written appeal shall set
forth the decision appealed from and the date of that decision. Upon receiving
a notice of appeal, the appeal shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular council meeting to occur following at least fifteen (15) days from the
receipt of the appeal. At that meeting the council shall review the findings of
fact and decision made by the board of adjustment and appeals, as well as any
documents that were furnished to the board of adjustment and appeals on the
matter. The council may, but is not required to, allow the aggrieved party and
other persons to speak to the council on the issue involved in the appeal. The
city council shall have the authority to uphold the decision of the board of
adjustment and appeals by passing a resolution adopting the findings of fact
and decision of the board of adjustment and appeals, or the council, by a vote
of a majority of all of the members of the council, may reverse or modify the
decision of the board of adjustment and appeals, in which case the city council
shall prepare its own findings of fact and decision on the matter appealed. In
the absence of a resolution adopting the findings of the board of adjustment
and appeals or of a resolution reversing the decision of the board of
adjustment and appeals by a vote of a majority of all members of the council
within forty five (45) days of the date of the initial consideration of the
appeal at a council meeting, the findings and decision of the board of
adjustment and appeals shall be deemed adopted by the city council. Any person
or persons or any taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city aggrieved
by the decision of the city council shall have the right to seek review within
thirty (30) days of the decision with a court of record of such decision in the
manner provided by the laws of the state of Minnesota, and particularly
Minnesota statutes chapter 462, as such statute may be, from time to time,
amended, supplemented or replaced. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Administration
10-8-2: Penalties, Violations And Enforcement
10-8-1: ADMINISTRATION:
This title shall be administered and enforced by the city. The city may
institute in the name of the city of Moorhead any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided by statute, charter, ordinance or
code.
If the provisions of this title are being violated, the city shall notify, in
writing, the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. The city shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal
of illegal buildings or structures or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take
any other action authorized by this title to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation of its provisions. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-8-2: PENALTIES, VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this title shall, upon
conviction, be penalized in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-2 of this code. Each day such violation continues or occurs constitutes a
separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
   B.   Violations: Violations of the provisions of this title shall include by
way of example and not limitation:
      1.   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in or maintains a violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided of the
provisions of this title.
      2.   Failure to comply with a condition in a conditional use permit 1
shall be a violation of this title. Each day such violation continues or occurs
constitutes a separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
   C.   Enforcement: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from
taking any other appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as
provided by law or city ordinance to prevent or remedy the violation or
penalize the violator. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
CHAPTER 9
SITE/BUILDING PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Plan Required
10-9-3: Plan Agreements
10-9-4: Enforcement
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a formal plan review procedure and
provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site design and
construction standards as agreed to by the contractor through officially
submitted plan documents. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-9-2: PLAN REQUIRED:
In addition to other plan requirements outlined in this code, site and
construction plans will be required and shall be submitted to and approved by
the building official prior to the issuance of any building permit. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005)
10-9-3: PLAN AGREEMENTS:
All site and construction plans officially submitted to the city shall be
treated as a formal agreement between the building contractor and the city.
Once approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be made to any
plan detail, standard or specifications without prior submission of a plan
modification request to the building official for review and approval. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-9-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The building official shall have the authority to order the stopping of any and
all site improvement activities, when and where a violation of the provisions
of this section has been officially documented by the building official. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 10
GENERAL BOUNDARIES AND MAP PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Official Zoning Map
10-10-2: Replacement Of Official Zoning Map
10-10-3: Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-10-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
mayor attested by the city clerk, and bearing the seal of the city under the
following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map
referred to in Title 10 Chapter 10 of the Moorhead City Code" together with the
date of the adoption of this title.
   B.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this title and Minnesota
statutes 462, changes are made in district boundaries or other matters
portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the
official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the
council certifying such change. The amending ordinance shall provide that such
changes or amendments shall not become effective until they have been duly
published.
   C.   No changes of any nature shall be made on the official zoning map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
title. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall
be considered a violation of this title and punishable as provided under
chapter 8 of this code.
   D.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the official zoning
map, which shall be located in the office of the city clerk, shall be the final
authority as the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and
other structures in the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-10-2: REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
In the event the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the council may, by resolution adopt, a new official zoning map
which shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning
map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official
zoning map, but no such corrections shall have the effect of amending the
original zoning ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new official
zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor attested by the
city clerk and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is
to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official
Zoning Map adopted February 21, 1983, as part of Ordinance No. 766 of the City
of Moorhead, Minnesota". (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-10-3: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Streets: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   B.   Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   City Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
limits shall be construed as following city limits.
   D.   Railroads: Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed as midway between the main tracks.
   E.   Shorelines: Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be
construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the
shoreline shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries
indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers,
canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   F.   Extensions: Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of
features indicated in subsections A through E of this section shall be so
construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map or field survey.
   G.   Vacated Ways: Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated
in the manner authorized by law, the zoned district adjoining each side of such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation and all included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
   H.   Appeals: Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district
boundary line shall be heard by the board of adjustment and appeals. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005)
   I.   Zoning Upon Annexation: All territory which may hereafter be annexed to
the city shall be considered to be zoned TZ transitional district until such
time that the zoning is changed. If applicable, the floodway or flood fringe
district regulations and other overlay district regulations shall also apply.
(Ord. 2007-2, 2-5-2007)
CHAPTER 11
TZ TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Permitted Uses
10-11-3: Accessory Uses
10-11-4: Conditional Uses
10-11-5: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-11-6: Maximum Building Height
10-11-7: Maximum Lot Coverage
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The transitional zone district is established primarily for those annexed
unplatted areas within the city that have not been zoned for development and
are undergoing a transition from, in most cases, agricultural to urban uses.
The urban transition is contingent upon development plans, proper timing,
availability of public utilities and services and compatibility with the
comprehensive land use plan and applicable growth area plans. As these criteria
take place a more conventional urban zoning district will replace the
transitional district zoning regulation. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-11-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in a TZ district:
Daycare facilities serving twelve (12) or fewer persons and residential care
facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons.
Essential services as defined herein.
Farming and agricultural related uses subject to Minnesota pollution control
standards, but not including livestock operations.
Hobby farms.
Nurseries, greenhouses, tree farms and landscape material operations including
retail and wholesale sales operations.
Public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, wildlife areas and game refuges.
Residential dwellings. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-11-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in a TZ district:
Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two (2) persons.
Fences, walls and hedges as regulated by chapter 19 of this title.
Home occupations as regulated by subsection 10-18-2H of this title.
Living quarters of persons employed on the premises.
Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
Operation and storage of such vehicles, equipment and machinery which are
incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district.
Private garages, parking spaces and carports for licensed and operable
passenger cars and trucks.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities which
are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the residents of the
principal use and their guests.
Recreational vehicles and equipment.
Temporary, seasonal stands for the sale of agricultural products provided said
products are primarily raised on the premises.
Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and
noncommercial recreational equipment. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2016-
11, 6-27-2016)
10-11-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in a TZ district: (Requires a conditional
use permit based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by chapter 4 of
this title.)
Cemeteries, provided that:
   A.   The site accesses on a minor arterial.
   B.   The site is landscaped in accordance with chapter 19 of this title.
   C.   The provisions of subsection
10-4-3E of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
Commercial recreational areas including golf courses and country clubs,
swimming pools, ice arenas and similar facilities, provided that:
   A.   The principal use, function or activity is recreational in character.
   B.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the land area of the site be
covered by buildings or structures.
   C.   When abutting a residential use and a residential use district, the
property is screened and landscaped in compliance with chapter 19 of this
title.
   D.   The land area of the property containing such use or activity meets the
minimum established for the district.
   E.   The provisions of subsection
10-4-3E of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
Commercial riding stables, dog kennels, animal hospitals with overnight care
and similar uses, provided that:
   A.   Any building in which animals are kept, whether roofed shelter or
enclosed structure, shall be located a distance of three hundred feet (300') or
more from any lot line.
   B.   The animals shall, at a minimum, be kept in an enclosed pen or corral
of sufficient height and strength to retain such animals. Said pen or corral
may not be located closer than three hundred feet (300') from a lot line.
   C.   The provisions of Minnesota pollution control agency regulations SW 53.
(2) as may be amended are complied with.
   D.   All other applicable state and local regulations pertaining to
nuisance, health and safety conditions, etc., are complied with.
   E.   The provisions of subsection
10-4-3E of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
Farm buildings within three hundred feet (300') of an existing residence or
residential platted lot, provided that the provisions of subsection 10-4-3E of
this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures necessary
for the health, safety and general welfare of the city, provided that:
   A.   Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
   B.   Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is provided in
compliance with chapter 19 of this title.
   C.   The provisions of subsection
10-4-3E of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
Towers which meet the requirements of chapter 17, article D of this title.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-11-5: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in a TZ district subject
to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area: Two and one-half (21/2) acres.
   B.   Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150').
   C.   Lot Depth: Three hundred feet (300').
   D.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side Yard:
         a.   Single-Family And Two-Family:
            (1)   Interior lots: Eight feet (8').
            (2)   Corner lots: Twelve feet (12').
         b.   All Other Permitted And Conditional Uses: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard:
         a.   Principal building: Twenty five feet (25').
         b.   Accessory structures: Three feet (3'), except on corner lots,
which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the street.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-11-6: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Dwelling units or principal buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-18-3 of this title.
   C.   Farm buildings: None. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-11-7: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
No structure or combination of structures shall occupy more than ten percent
(10%) of the lot. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 12
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of residential districts is to establish predictability for the
density, arrangement and location of residential development within the
community. The districts are intended to preserve and strengthen existing
neighborhoods and build new neighborhoods with equal or greater livability,
consistent with the vision and key elements established in the comprehensive
plan. (Ord. 2006-27, 9-5-2006)
ARTICLE A. RLD-1 RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY - 1
SECTION:
10-12A-1: Purpose
10-12A-2: Permitted Uses
10-12A-3: Accessory Uses
10-12A-4: Provisional Uses
10-12A-5: Conditional Uses
10-12A-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-12A-7: Maximum Building Height
10-12A-8: Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
10-12A-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-12A-1: PURPOSE:
The RLD-1 district is intended to provide for a low density residential
environment characterized by large lots with single-family housing and
outbuildings. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-2: PERMITTED USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in an RLD-1 district:
Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
Private residential garages, parking spaces and carports. Private residential
garages are to be used for storing the private passenger vehicles belonging to
the family upon the premises, and shall not be used to conduct commercial
business, service or industry.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and noncommercial
recreational equipment.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements of
chapter 17,
article D of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions as outlined in section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are allowed
subject to the criteria as outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following requirements shall be observed in an RLD-1 district subject to
the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot area:
      1.   Dwelling: Twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) square feet per
unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot width:
      1.   Dwelling: Eight-five feet (85').
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Dwelling:
         a.   Front yard and Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
         b.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Street side yard: Fifteen feet (15') except side walls with
garage doors must be twenty-five feet (25').
      2.   Other principal uses.
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard, Rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single-family use: Thirty feet (30').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Design standards:
      1.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title, as approved by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Other principal uses:
         a.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to
include materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics, as approved by
the zoning administrator.
         b.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements, as approved by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Principal buildings: Thirty-five feet (35'). (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-8: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
Impervious surface coverage, inclusive of all structures, impermeable surface
and detention ponds shall be limited to thirty-five percent (35%) of the lot
area. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12A-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
In addition to above, as governed by section
10-18-3 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
ARTICLE B. RLD-2 RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY - 2
SECTION:
10-12B-1: Purpose
10-12B-2: Permitted Uses
10-12B-3: Accessory Uses
10-12B-4: Provisional Uses
10-12B-5: Conditional Uses
10-12B-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-12B-7: Maximum Building Height
10-12B-8: Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
10-12B-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-12B-1: PURPOSE:
The RLD-2 district is intended to provide for a mix of low-density housing
types including single-family, two-family twin home or duplex and multi-family
townhouse/rowhouse or triplex. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-2: PERMITTED USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
Private residential garages, parking spaces and carports. Private residential
garages are to be used for storing the private passenger vehicles belonging to
the family upon the premises, and shall not be used to conduct commercial
business, service or industry.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and noncommercial
recreational equipment.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements of
chapter 17, article D of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions as outlined in section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the criteria outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following requirements shall be observed in an RLD-2 district subject to
the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot area:
      1.   Dwelling: Six thousand (6,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot width:
      1.   Single-family: Forty-five (45') per dwelling unit.
      2.   Two-family and Multi-family: Twenty-five (25') per dwelling unit.
      3.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Dwelling:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') except that dwellings with attached
accessory garages with doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior side yard: Five feet (5').
            (1)   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
         d.   Street side yard: Twelve feet (12') except walls with garage
doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
      2.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Other principal uses:
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard, Rear yard: Twenty-five feet (25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Design standards:
      1.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title, as approved by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Other principal uses:
         a.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to
include materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics, as approved by
the zoning administrator.
      b.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements, as approved by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-12B-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Single-family: Thirty-five feet (35').
   B.   Two-family and Multi-family: Forty-five feet (45'). (Ord. 2024-01, 3-
25-2024)
10-12B-8: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
Impervious surface coverage, inclusive of all structures, impermeable surfaces
and detention ponds shall be limited to thirty five percent (35%) of the lot
area. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12B-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
In addition to above, as governed by section
10-18-3 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
ARTICLE C. RLD-3 RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY - 3
SECTION:
10-12C-1: Purpose
10-12C-2: Permitted Uses
10-12C-3: Accessory Uses
10-12C-4: Provisional Uses
10-12C-5: Conditional Uses
10-12C-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-12C-7: Maximum Building Height
10-12C-8: Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
10-12C-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-12C-1: PURPOSE:
The RLD-3 district is intended to provide a mix of low density housing types
including single-family, two-family twin home or duplex and multi-family
townhouse/rowhouse, triplex and apartments. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-2: PERMITTED USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
Private residential garages, parking spaces and carports. Private residential
garages are to be used for storing the private passenger vehicles belonging to
the family upon the premises, and shall not be used to conduct commercial
business, service or industry.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and noncommercial
recreational equipment.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements of
chapter 17, article D of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions as outlined in section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the criteria outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following requirements shall be observed in an RLD-3 district subject to
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Dwelling: Four thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot Width:
      1.   Single-family: Forty feet (40') per dwelling unit.
      2.   Two-family, Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex: Twenty-five
feet (25') per dwelling unit.
      3.   Multi-family Apartments and Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex Cluster
Development: One hundred feet (100').
      4.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Single-family, Two-family, Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse, Triplex
Dwelling:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') except that dwellings with attached
accessory garages with doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior side yard: Five feet (5').
            (1)   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
         d.   Street side yard: Twelve feet (12') except walls with garage
doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
      2.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Multi-family Apartments:
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard and Rear yard: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet
(10').
      4.   Other principal uses
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard, Rear yard: Twenty-five feet (25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Design standards:
      1.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title, as approved by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Multi-family Apartments and other principal uses:
         a.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to
include materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics, as approved by
the zoning administrator.
         b.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements, as approved by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Single-family: Thirty-five feet (35').
   B.   Two-family: Forty-five feet (45').
   C.   Multi-family:
      1.   If structure is within 150 ft of a principal residential structure
in residential low density zone: Forty-five feet (45').
      2.   If structure is more than 150 ft of a principal residential
structure in residential low density zone: Fifty-five (55'). (Ord. 2024-01, 3-
25-2024)
10-12C-8: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
Impervious surface coverage, inclusive of all structures, impermeable surfaces
and detention ponds, shall be limited to sixty percent (60%) of the lot area.
(Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12C-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
In addition to above, as governed by section
10-18-3 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
ARTICLE D. RMD RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY
SECTION:
10-12D-1: Purpose
10-12D-2: Permitted Uses
10-12D-3: Accessory Uses
10-12D-4: Provisional Uses
10-12D-5: Conditional Uses
10-12D-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-12D-7: Maximum Building Height
10-12D-8: Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
10-12D-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-12D-1: PURPOSE:
The RMD district is intended to provide a mix of medium density housing types
including single-family, two-family twin home or duplex and multi-family
townhouse/rowhouse, triplex and apartments. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-2: PERMITTED USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
Private residential garages, parking spaces and carports. Private residential
garages are to be used for storing the private passenger vehicles belonging to
the family upon the premises, and shall not be used to conduct commercial
business, service or industry.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and noncommercial
recreational equipment.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements of
chapter 17, article D of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions as outlined in section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the criteria outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following requirements shall be observed in an RMD district subject to
additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Dwelling: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet per dwelling
unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot Width:
      1.   Single-family: Forty feet (40') per dwelling unit.
      2.   Two-family, Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex: Twenty-five
feet (25') per dwelling unit.
      3.   Multi-family Apartments and Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex Cluster
Development: One hundred feet (100').
      4.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Single-family, Two-family, Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse, Triplex
Dwelling:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') except that dwellings with attached
accessory garages with doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior side yard: Five feet (5').
            (1)   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
         d.   Street side yard: Twelve feet (12') except walls with garage
doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
      2.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Multi-family Apartments:
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard and Rear yard: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet
(10').
      4.   Other principal uses:
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard, Rear yard: Twenty-five feet (25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Design standards:
      1.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title, as approved by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Multi-family Apartments and other principal uses:
         a.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to
include materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics, as approved by
the zoning administrator.
         b.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements, as approved by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Single-family: Thirty-five feet (35').
   B.   Two-family: Forty-five feet (45').
   C.   Multi-family:
      1.   If structure is within 150 ft of a principal residential structure
in residential low density zone: Forty-five feet (45').
      2.   If structure is more than 150 ft of a principal residential
structure in residential low density zone: Fifty-five (55'). (Ord. 2024-01, 3-
25-2024)
10-12D-8: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
Impervious surface coverage, inclusive of all structures, impermeable surfaces
and detention ponds, shall be limited to sixty percent (60%) of the lot area.
(Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12D-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
In addition to above, as governed by section of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-
25-2024)
ARTICLE E. RHD RESIDENTIAL HIGH DENSITY
SECTION:
10-12E-1: Purpose
10-12E-2: Permitted Uses
10-12E-3: Accessory Uses
10-12E-4: Provisional Uses
10-12E-5: Conditional Uses
10-12E-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-12E-7: Maximum Building Height
10-12E-8: Maximum Impervious Coverage
10-12E-9: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-12E-1: PURPOSE:
The RHD district is intended to provide a mix of high density housing types
including multi-family townhouse/rowhouse, triplex and apartments. (Ord. 2024-
01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-2: PERMITTED USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Private residential garages, parking spaces and carports. Private residential
garages are to be used for storing the private passenger vehicles belonging to
the family upon the premises, and shall not be used to conduct commercial
business, service or industry.
Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and noncommercial
recreational equipment.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements of
chapter 17, article D of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions as outlined in section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See residential use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the criteria outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an RHD district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Dwelling: One thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet per dwelling
unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot Width:
      1.   Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex: Twenty-five feet (25')
per dwelling unit.
      2.   Multi-family Apartments and Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex Cluster
Development: One hundred feet (100').
      3.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Multi-family Townhouse/Rowhouse or Triplex Dwelling:
         a.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20') except that dwellings with attached
accessory garages with doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior side yard: Five feet (5').
            (1)   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
         d.   Street side yard: Twelve feet (12') except walls with garage
doors facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         e.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet
(10').
      2.   Multi-family Apartments:
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard and Rear yard: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Building separation between end units on same lot: Ten feet
(10').
      3.   Other principal uses
         a.   Front yard, Street side yard, Rear yard: Twenty-five feet (25').
            (1)   Front yard and Street side yard shall not be used for
parking.
         b.   Interior side yard:
            (1)   If adjacent to a single or two-family use: Twenty-five feet
(25').
            (2)   If adjacent to all other uses: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Design standards:
      1.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title, as approved by the zoning
administrator.
      2.   Multi-family Apartments and other principal uses:
         a.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to
include materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics, as approved by
the zoning administrator.
         b.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements, as approved by the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Multi-family:
      1.   If structure is within 150 ft of a principal residential structure
in residential low density zone: Forty-five feet (45').
      2.   If structure is more than 150 ft of a principal residential
structure in residential low density zone: Fifty-five (55'). (Ord. 2024-01, 3-
25-2024)
10-12E-8: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE:
Impervious surface coverage, inclusive of all structures, impermeable surfaces
and detention ponds, shall be limited to seventy percent (70%) of the lot area.
(Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
10-12E-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
In addition to above, as governed by section
10-18-3 of this title. (Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024)
CHAPTER 13
COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. NC NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
(Rep. by Ord. 2024-03, 7-22-2024)
ARTICLE B. CC COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-13B-1: Purpose
10-13B-2: Permitted Uses
10-13B-3: Accessory Uses
10-13B-4: Provisional Uses
10-13B-5: Conditional Uses
10-13B-6: Prohibited Uses
10-13B-7: Site Requirements
10-13B-8: Design And Construction
10-13B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the CC district is to provide an area to concentrate commercial
services offering a variety of goods and services. The CC district encourages a
variety of uses aimed at providing a diversity of jobs, commercial services and
shopping facilities. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the CC district:
   Buildings, structures or uses accessory to the principal use.
   Dwelling units for guards and custodians but such dwelling units shall not
occupy the front portion of the ground floor and shall not contain more than
one bedroom. The existence of this use requires notification to the zoning
administrator.
   Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to chapter 17E and 9 of
this title.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to employees on the premises, and shall not be used to conduct
commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and section
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-6: PROHIBITED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the CC district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
      4.   Street side yard: Ten feet (10')
      5.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      6.   Outdoor sales displays: None.
      7.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building:
         a.   If structure is within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
principal residential structure (measured by a straight line structure to
structure): Forty-five feet (45')
         b.   If structure is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
residential structure (measured by a straight-line structure to structure):
Fifty-five feet (55').
      2.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   E.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   G.   Impervious surface coverage: 85%.
      1.   The zoning administrator has the authority to authorize an
additional one (1) percent if:
         a.   Use of onsite stormwater retention pond or other manner that
would significantly reduce the visual impact of the impervious surface
coverage.
         b.   Use of other methods employed by developer that would
significantly reduce the impact of impervious surface coverage on the lot.
   H.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 .
   I.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity: Identifiable and safe pedestrian
walkways within the site recommended to interconnect front doors of
establishments to transit stops and/or public sidewalks.
   Developments should also establish a sidewalk connection to adjacent blocks
and between parking areas and adjacent uses.
   J.   Refuse and Recycling Storage: See Chapter 19. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-13B-8:   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the CC district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Siting and Architectural Design (see also chapter 17E for
properties in Gateway Overlay District):
      1.   Main entrances shall be emphasized by lighting or architectural
enhancements.
      2.   All exterior walls facing or abutting public sidewalks or streets
shall have equal design consideration to include materials, color, articulation
and general aesthetics.
      3.   Exterior building walls over sixty feet (60') in height or width
shall be divided visually into smaller sections and/or add architectural
features to break up the mass:
         a.   Vertical and horizontal architectural features may include, but
are not limited to:
            (1)   Roof line and/or roof overhang variations, projections or
recesses, windows, public art, building massing setbacks, changes in color,
material, or texture, awnings, canopies, balconies, porticoes and moldings.
      4.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      5.   Overhead doors and loading docks:
      a.   Shall not face public streets or frontage roads unless screened from
view;
      b.   Shall not face required front yards; and
      c.   Shall meet the requirements of chapter 21.
   6.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions to
this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the CC district.
(Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE C. RC REGIONAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-13C-1: Purpose
10-13C-2: Permitted Uses
10-13C-3: Accessory Uses
10-13C-4: Provisional Uses
10-13C-5: Conditional Uses
10-13C-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-13C-7: Site Requirements
10-13C-8: Building Design And Construction
10-13C-9: Maximum Building Height
10-13C-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the RC regional commercial district to provide areas for
commercial establishments that offer a wide variety of goods and services to
consumers from a trade area that extends beyond the city of Moorhead. The RC
district is intended for establishments that have a large customer draw,
generate significant traffic and parking needs, and require close access to
arterial streets. Uses in this district are generally less dependent on
adjacent commercial uses for spinoff business. It is the intent of the RC
district to provide for the integration of an attractive environment for
motorists and pedestrians with regional shopping services. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-
2013)
10-13C-2: PERMITTED USES:
See commercial/industrial district use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for permitted uses. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013)
10-13C-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in an RC district:
All permitted accessory uses as allowed in a CC district. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-
2013)
10-13C-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See commercial/industrial district use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for provisional uses. Provisional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the provisions outlined in chapter 6 and section
10-18-2 of this title. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013)
10-13C-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See commercial/industrial district use table in section
10-18-1 of this title for conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as
long as they meet the criteria outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title, and any additional conditions required by the city
council. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013)
10-13C-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an RC district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10'), or zero feet (0') where common
walls on attached buildings are located.
      3.   Street side yard: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
      5.   Rear or side yard when abutting a lot line of a residential zoning
district: Fifty feet (50').
   D.   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping: Parking lot perimeter screens shall
be located between off street parking areas and any adjacent street rights of
way in accordance with the following table:
PARKING LOT PERIMETER LANDSCAPING
 
Parking Area Size  Buffer Width   Minimum Requirements
(Number Of Spaces) (Minimum Feet)
                   4              Hedgerow (continuous shrubs)
1 - 50 spaces      4              Decorative fence with 50% transparency with
                                  plantings (1 PU per 5 linear feet)
51+ spaces         10             1 small tree plus 6 shrubs per 25 linear feet
 
Alternative parking lot perimeter screens and/or buffer widths may be approved
by the zoning administrator. Landscaping provided for the parking lot perimeter
landscaping shall not be counted toward meeting the landscaping and tree
standards of section
10-19-17 of this title.
All off street parking areas shall be subject to parking lot perimeter screens
of this subsection. The standards do not apply to areas used for storing
vehicles or equipment in conjunction with a vehicle sales or rental
establishment.
   E.   Impervious Surface Coverage: The total lot coverage of hard surfacing
and buildings shall not exceed eighty five percent (85%). Required stormwater
retention ponds shall count as impervious surface coverage. The city planner
has the authority to authorize an additional one percent (1%) of impervious
surface in each of the following circumstances:
      1.   Use of on site stormwater retention pond by location or other manner
will reduce significantly the visual impact of the impervious surface coverage
of the lot.
      2.   Other methods employed by the developer will reduce significantly
the impact of the impervious surface coverage of the lot. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-
2013)
10-13C-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping And Buffer Yards: Plantings used to fulfill the
requirements of section
10-19-17 of this title shall be grouped to maximize visual impact from
adjoining streets.
   B.   Lighting: Lighting shall be directed downward, inward and away from
public rights of way and adjoining uses, consistent with section
10-19-19 of this title.
   C.   Pedestrian Access: Identifiable and safe pedestrian walkways within the
site shall be provided that interconnect front doors of establishments and
connect to transit stops and to public sidewalks on the perimeter. Pedestrian
walkways shall be a minimum of four and one-half feet (41/2') in width and of
contrasting materials or color for easy identification. Pedestrian walkways
shall be maintained and kept clean.
   D.   Storage And Display:
      1.   No required setback shall be used for outdoor storage or display of
product.
      2.   Storage of refuse and recycling shall be in conformance with section
10-19-7 of this title. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013)
10-13C-8: BUILDING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings in the RC district shall meet the following standards, unless
specifically exempted:
   A.   Buildings shall be attractive and constructed of materials that will
maintain their appearance over the long term.
   B.   All exterior walls shall be of consistent quality and characteristics.
   C.   Main entrances shall be emphasized by distance recessed or projected,
by accent materials, change of grade or by pedestrian scale lighting and other
pedestrian amenities.
   D.   Exterior building walls greater than sixty feet (60') in length shall
be divided visually into sections or bays to break up the mass.
   E.   Architectural elements, approved by the zoning administrator, shall be
combined with landscaping to add interest to buildings, and especially to break
up long expanses. Standards for architectural elements include:
      1.   The exterior of buildings shall be comprised of at least thirty
percent (30%) quality materials other than steel and fiberglass; and
      2.   Exterior building walls visible from the public right of way shall
incorporate no fewer than three (3) architectural elements comparable to those
listed below or other architectural elements as approved by the zoning
administrator.
         a.   Accent materials,
         b.   Public art,
         c.   Architectural details, such as tile work and moldings integrated
into the building facade,
         d.   Windows,
         e.   Recesses/projections,
         f.   Roof overhang, which should vary according to building width, as
follows: one foot (1') overhang for buildings less than fifty feet (50') in
width, two foot (2') overhang for buildings fifty (50) to one hundred feet
(100') in width, and three foot (3') overhang for buildings greater than one
hundred feet (100') in width,
         g.   Varied rooflines,
         h.   Articulated cornice line,
         i.   Canopies/awnings/porticoes,
         j.   Arcades,
         k.   Planters and wing walls integrated with the building,
         l.   Outdoor patios,
         m.   Pedestrian plaza with benches and planters,
         n.   Window shopping walkway,
         o.   Outdoor playground,
         p.   Water feature, and
         q.   Display windows.
   F.   Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened in a manner that is
incorporated in the architectural form of the building.
   G.   Overhead doors and loading docks:
      1.   Shall not face gateways, other arterial or collector streets, unless
completely screened from view;
      2.   Shall not be located in required front yards; and
      3.   Shall meet the requirements of chapter 21 of this title. (Ord. 2013-
09, 6-24-2013)
10-13C-9: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Principal building: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-18-3 of this title. (Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013)
CHAPTER 14
INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-14A-1: Purpose
10-14A-2: Permitted Uses
10-14A-3: Accessory Uses
10-14A-4: Provisional Uses
10-14A-5: Conditional Uses
10-14A-6: Prohibited Uses
10-14A-7: Site Requirements
10-14A-8: Design And Construction
10-14A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the LI district is to provide an area to concentrate commercial
and light industrial uses. The LI district encourages commercial and light
industrial facilities with a variety of jobs. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the LI district:
   Buildings, structures or uses accessory to the principal use.
   Dwelling units for guards and custodians but such dwelling units shall not
occupy the front portion of the ground floor and shall not contain more than
one bedroom. The existence of this use requires notification to the zoning
administrator.
   Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to chapter 17E and 19 of
this title.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to employees on the premises, and shall not be used to conduct
commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and section
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-6: PROHIBITED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the LI district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
      4.   Street side yard: Ten feet (10')
      5.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      6.   Outdoor sales displays: None.
      7.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: None.
      2.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   E.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   G.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 .
   H.   Refuse and Recycling Storage: See Chapter 19. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14A-8:   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the LI district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Design and Siting (see also chapter 17E for properties in
Gateway Overlay District):
      1.   Main entrances shall be emphasized by lighting or architectural
enhancements.
      2.   All exterior walls facing or abutting public sidewalks or streets
shall have equal design consideration to include materials, color, articulation
and general aesthetics.
      3.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      4.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions
to this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the LI
district. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE B. HI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-14B-1: Purpose
10-14B-2: Permitted Uses
10-14B-3: Accessory Uses
10-14B-4: Provisional Uses
10-14B-5: Conditional Uses
10-14B-6: Prohibited Uses
10-14B-7: Site Requirements
10-14B-8: Design And Construction
10-14B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the HI district is to provide an area to concentrate light and
heavy industrial uses. The HI district encourages light and heavy industrial
facilities with a variety of jobs. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the HI district:
   Buildings, structures or uses accessory to the principal use.
   Dwelling units for guards and custodians but such dwelling units shall not
occupy the front portion of the ground floor and shall not contain more than
one bedroom. The existence of this use requires notification to the zoning
administrator.
   Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to chapter 17E and 19 of
this title.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to employees on the premises, and shall not be used to conduct
commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and section
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-6: PROHIBITED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the HI district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
      2.   Interior side yard: Twenty feet (20').
      3.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
      4.   Street side yard: Twenty feet (20')
      5.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20').
      6.   Outdoor sales displays: None.
      7.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
      8.   Maximum Building Height:
         a.   Principal building: None.
         b.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
   E.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   F.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 .
   G.   Refuse and Recycling Storage: See Chapter 19. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-14B-8:   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the HI district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Design and Siting (see also chapter 17E for properties in
Gateway Overlay District):
      1.   Main entrances shall be emphasized by lighting or architectural
enhancements.
      2.   All exterior walls facing or abutting public sidewalks or streets
shall have equal design consideration to include materials, color, articulation
and general aesthetics.
      3.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      4.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions
to this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the HI
district. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 15
MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. MU-1 DOWNTOWN CENTER MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-15A-1: Purpose
10-15A-2: Permitted Uses
10-15A-3: Accessory Uses
10-15A-4: Provisional Uses
10-15A-5: Conditional Uses
10-15A-6: Prohibited Uses
10-15A-7: Site Requirements
10-15A-8: Design And Construction
10-15A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the MU-1 district is to create a flexible approach to land use
for mixed residential and commercial development that promotes a variety of
commercial uses, jobs, residential opportunities and civic functions. The MU-
1 district encourages a scale of development and mixture of uses while also
maintaining a pedestrian-friendly and sustainable downtown environment. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the MU-1 district:
   Rooftop gardens, outdoor eating areas, public plazas, courtyards or other
gathering spaces.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to residents and/or employees on the premises, and shall not be used
to conduct commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following are prohibited uses in the MU-1 district:
   Outdoor storage and sales displays.
   Also see use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the MU-1 district
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks: None
   D.   Maximum Building Height: None
   E.   Parking and Loading: Off street parking and loading requirements
established in chapter 20 and 21 shall not apply to existing or new structures
in the MU-1 district.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering established in chapter 19 shall
not apply to existing or new structures in the MU-1 district except for the
following:
      1.   If provided, all existing and new parking lots must provide parking
lot perimeter screening according to chapter 19.
   G.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage: None.
   H.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 .
   I.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity: Identifiable and safe pedestrian
walkways within the site recommended to interconnect front doors of
establishments to transit stops and/or public sidewalks.
   Developments should establish a sidewalk connection to adjacent blocks and
between parking areas and adjacent uses, as applicable.
   I.   Refuse and recycling storage: See Chapter 19.
   J.   Floor Area Ratios: Minimum floor area ratio for new development shall
be 1.0. There is no maximum floor area ratio. In lieu of the minimum floor area
ratio requirement, the planning commission may approve plans for new
development with a floor area ratio less than 1.0. Building elevations and a
site plan shall be submitted for planning commission review. To appeal the
decision of the planning commission to the city council, a written notice of
appeal must be filed with the city within fifteen (15) days of the decision of
the planning commission. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15A-8: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the MU-1 district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Siting, Architectural Design, Street Level Transparency:
      1.   Building Orientation: View corridors from public spaces to key
visual qualities including the Red River of the North, the Hjemkomst Center and
the skyline are encouraged to be preserved through the orientation of buildings
and limited height restriction.
      2.   Buildings shall be attractive and constructed of materials that will
maintain their appearance over the long term.
      3.   Main Entrances And Corner Uses: Shall be enhanced with architectural
enhancements to emphasize the entrance by accent materials, change of grade or
by pedestrian scale lighting and other pedestrian amenities.
      4.   All exterior walls clearly visible from a street shall have equal
design consideration of consistent quality and characteristics.
      5.   Exterior building walls over sixty feet (60') in height or width
shall be divided visually into smaller sections and/or add architectural
features to break up the mass:
         a.   Vertical and horizontal architectural features may include, but
are not limited to:
            (1)   Roof line and/or roof overhang variations, projections or
recesses, windows, public art, building massing setbacks, changes in color,
material, or texture, awnings, canopies, balconies, porticoes and moldings.
      6.   Street Level Transparency: Street level fronts abutting public
sidewalks shall contain a minimum of thirty five percent (35%) surfaces such as
windows, doors, and other elements to allow sight lines into store fronts so as
to provide a safe pedestrian environment and facilitate window shopping.
Calculations shall be based on the linear footage of the ground floor.
         a.   Existing buildings along sidewalks to which interior renovations
or structural improvements are proposed shall be excluded from this requirement
only if they do not already meet the thirty five percent (35%) transparency
requirement. In those cases, the transparency requirement shall meet or exceed
the percentage of ground floor transparency provided by the existing structure.
      7.   Architectural Materials And Elements: Shall be combined to add
interest to buildings and especially to break up long expanses. In lieu of the
following requirements, the planning commission may approve plans for buildings
of exceptional architecture that utilize materials and design elements in
unique ways:
         a.   Required Materials: All walls visible from the street shall be
finished with a combination of multigenerational, architectural materials such
as brick, glass, stone, ceramic, stucco, precast panels, exterior insulation
finish systems, metal panels, cement board or curtain walls.
         b.   Prohibited Materials: Lap style siding applications, asphalt,
smooth or painted concrete blocks or cinder blocks.
            (1)   Exception: When MU-1 development includes townhouse/rowhouse,
triplex or historical residential structures that have been adaptively reused,
typical residential structure exterior materials may be accepted (e.g., typical
residential lap siding or composite brick).
      8.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      9.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions
to this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the MU-
1 district. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE B. MU-2 NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-15B-1: Purpose
10-15B-2: Permitted Uses
10-15B-3: Accessory Uses
10-15B-4: Provisional Uses
10-15B-5: Conditional Uses
10-15B-6: Prohibited Uses
10-15B-7: Site Requirements
10-15B-8: Design And Construction
10-15B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the MU-2 district is to promote a land use pattern that
establishes various neighborhood-serving retail and service uses and a mix of
low, medium and high-density residential uses. The MU-2 district encourages
development that is harmonious with the character of the area in which it is
located. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the MU-2 district:
   Limited Commercial Accessory Uses:
      Typical accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      Residential Accessory Uses:
      Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to residents and employees on the premises, and shall not be used to
conduct commercial business, service or industry.
      Private swimming pools, tennis courts and other recreational facilities.
      Sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic supplies and
noncommercial recreational equipment. See
10-18-3 .
      Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and which meet the requirements
of chapter 17, article D of this title. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following are prohibited uses in the MU-2 district:
   Outdoor storage and sales displays.
   Also see use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the MU-2 district
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this title:
   A.   Lot area:
      1.   Single And Two-Family: Four thousand (4,000) square feet per
dwelling unit.
      2.   Other principal uses: No minimum.
   B.   Lot Width: No minimum.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Single And Two-Family:
         a.   Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback may be the average of
adjacent structures on the same block except walls with garage doors facing
street must be twenty-five feet (25'). If only one adjacent lot is occupied by
a structure, the minimum front yard may be that of said principal structure.
         b.   Rear Yard: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Interior Side Yard: Five feet (5').
         d.   Common Wall: Zero feet (0').
         e.   Street Side Yard: The minimum street side yard setback may be the
average of adjacent structures on the same block except walls with garage doors
facing street must be twenty-five feet (25'). If only one adjacent lot is
occupied by a structure, the minimum street side yard may be that of said
principal structure.
         f.   Building Separation Between End Units On Same Lot: Ten feet
(10').
      2.   Other Principal Uses:
         a.   Front Yard: Ten feet (10') except walls with garage doors facing
street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         b.   Rear Yard: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Interior Side Yard: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
         e.   Street Side Yard: Ten feet (10') except walls with garage doors
facing street must be twenty-five feet (25').
         f.   Building Separation Between End Units On Same Lot: Ten feet
(10').
      3.    Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Single-Family: Thirty-five feet (35').
      2.   Two-Family: Forty-five feet (45').
      3.   Other Principal Uses:
         a.   If structure is within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
principal residential structure (measured structure to structure): Forty-five
feet (45').
         b.   If structure is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
principal residential structure (measured structure to structure): Fifty-five
feet (55').
   E.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
      1.   Credit shall be given to development projects that can utilize
shared parking arrangements and use of public parking facilities in order to
reduce parking requirements. A maximum twenty percent (20%) reduction can be
achieved provided shared parking arrangements are secured through the
development process.
      2.   Garages And Parking: Off street parking for residential and
commercial uses is encouraged to be underground, tuck under or structure
parking.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   G.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage: Seventy percent (70%).
   H.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 . Additionally:
      1.   All outdoor lighting shall be designed so as not to adversely impact
surrounding residential uses, while also providing a sufficient level of
illumination for access and security purposes. The source of light shall be
hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light adjacent property. Bare
light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public
streets. Such lighting shall not blink, flash, oscillate, or be of unusually
high intensity of brightness.
   I.   Noise: Commercial uses shall be designed and operated so that
neighboring residents are not exposed to offensive noise, especially from
traffic or late-night activity. No amplified music shall be audible to
neighboring residents, except as allowed by special city permit. Hours of
operation shall be limited, where appropriate.
   J.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity: Identifiable and safe pedestrian
walkways within the site recommended to interconnect front doors of
establishments to transit stops and/or public sidewalks.
   Developments should establish a sidewalk connection to adjacent blocks and
between parking areas and adjacent uses, as applicable.
   K.   Refuse and Recycling Storage: See Chapter 19. Additionally:
      1.   Refuse and recycling facilities shall be located within a principal
structure or a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') from any property line.
      2.   The City reserves the right to vary the location of containers when
necessary to collect and dispose of waste material, as outlined in section
3-4-2  of this code. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15B-8: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the MU-2 district shall address the following:
   A.   All principal and accessory uses must meet applicable site development
standards in chapter 19 of this title.
   B.   Multi-Family And Other Principal Uses:
      1.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to include
materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics.
      2.   Building elevations that face a public street shall have either
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall facing the street consisting of windows and/
or entrance areas or include other design elements.
   C.   Building Siting, Architectural Design, Street Level Transparency:
      1.   Building Orientation: Buildings shall be oriented toward primary
street frontage with parking in the rear of building, unless demonstrated to
fit with the character of the adjacent neighborhood.
      2.   Buildings shall be attractive and constructed of materials that will
maintain their appearance over the long term.
      3.   Main entrances and corner uses shall be emphasized with accent
materials, change of grade or by pedestrian scale lighting and other pedestrian
amenities.
      4.   Architectural design shall incorporate high quality,
multigenerational materials and be of a style to blend with the surrounding
residential neighborhood.
      5.   Exterior building walls over sixty feet (60') in height or width
shall be divided visually into smaller sections and/or add architectural
features to break up the mass:
         a.   Vertical and horizontal architectural features may include, but
are not limited to:
            (1)   Roof line and/or roof overhang variations, projections or
recesses, windows, public art, building massing setbacks, changes in color,
material, or texture, awnings, canopies, balconies, porticoes and moldings.
   D.   Architectural elements shall be combined with landscaping to add
interest to buildings, and especially to break up long expanses.
   E.   Corporate or franchise architecture shall be prohibited unless
demonstrated to fit with the character of the adjacent neighborhood.
   F.   Street level transparency shall be provided for development with street
level building fronts abutting a public sidewalk containing at least twenty-
five percent (25%) transparent surfaces such as windows, doors and other
transparent elements to allow sight lines into storefronts so as to provide a
safe pedestrian environment and facilitate window shopping. Calculations shall
be based on the linear footage of the ground floor.
      1.   Building plans with less than twenty-five percent (25%) street
transparency adjacent to public sidewalks may be approved provided that the
subject wall of the structure includes architectural or public art features
which offer visual relief from a blank wall through the use of texture,
recessed patterns, or other design features.
      2.   Existing buildings along sidewalks to which interior renovations or
structural improvements are proposed shall be excluded from this requirement
only if they do not already meet the twenty-five percent (25%) transparency
requirement. In those cases, the transparency requirement shall meet or exceed
the percentage of ground floor transparency provided by the existing structure.
   G.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
   H.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions to
this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the MU-
2 district. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE C. MU-3 COMMERCIAL MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-15C-1: Purpose
10-15C-2: Permitted Uses
10-15C-3: Accessory Uses
10-15C-4: Provisional Uses
10-15C-5: Conditional Uses
10-15C-6: Prohibited Uses
10-15C-7: Site Requirements
10-15C-8: Design And Construction
10-15C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the MU-3 district is to create a flexible approach to land use
for mixed residential and commercial development. The MU-3 district encourages
a scale of development that maintains the character and integrity of adjacent
residential neighborhoods and the Downtown Center. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15C-2: PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15C-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the MU-3 district:
   Buildings, structures or uses accessory to the principal use.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to residents and/or employees on the premises, and shall not be used
to conduct commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025;
amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15C-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15C-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15C-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following are prohibited uses in the MU-3 district:
   Adult use.
   Outdoor storage (does not include sales displays).
   Also see use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-
24-2025)
10-15C-7: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the MU-3 district
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
      4.   Street side yard: Ten feet (10')
      5.    Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      6.   Outdoor sales displays: None.
      7.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building:
         a.   If structure is within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
principal residential structure (measured by a straight line structure to
structure): Forty-five feet (45').
         b.   If structure is more than one hundred fifty feet (150') of a
principal residential structure (measured by a straight line structure to
structure): Fifty-five feet (55').
      2.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   E.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   G.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage: None.
   H.   Pedestrian Access: Identifiable and safe pedestrian walkways within the
site recommended to interconnect front doors of establishments to transit stops
and/or public sidewalks.
   Developments should also establish a sidewalk connection to adjacent blocks
and between parking areas and adjacent uses.
   I.   Noise: Commercial uses shall be designed and operated so that
neighboring residents are not exposed to offensive noise, especially from
traffic or late-night activity. No amplified music shall be audible to
neighboring residents, except as allowed by special city permit. Hours of
operation shall be limited, where appropriate.
   J.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity: Identifiable and safe pedestrian
walkways within the site recommended to interconnect front doors of
establishments to transit stops and/or public sidewalks.
   K.   Refuse and Recycling Storage: See Chapter 19. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025;
amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15C-8: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the MU-3 district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Siting, Architectural Design, Street Level Transparency:
      1.   Building siting shall be oriented toward primary street frontage
with parking in the rear of building, unless demonstrated to fit with the
character of the adjacent neighborhood.
      2.   Buildings shall be attractive and constructed of materials that will
maintain their appearance over the long term.
      3.   Main entrances and corner uses shall be emphasized with accent
materials, change of grade or by pedestrian scale lighting and other pedestrian
amenities.
      4.   Street level transparency: Building fronts abutting public sidewalks
or streets shall contain a minimum of twenty five percent (25%) surfaces such
as windows, doors, and other elements to allow sight lines into store fronts.
Calculations shall be based on the linear footage of the ground floor.
         a.   Existing buildings to which interior renovations or structural
improvements are proposed shall be excluded from this requirement only if they
do not already meet the twenty five percent (25%) transparency requirement. In
those cases, the transparency requirement shall meet or exceed the percentage
of ground floor transparency provided by the existing structure.
      5.   All exterior walls must have equal design consideration to include
materials, color, articulation and general aesthetics.
      6.   Exterior building walls over sixty feet (60') in height or width
shall be divided visually into smaller sections and/or add architectural
features to break up the mass:
         a.   Vertical and horizontal architectural features may include, but
are not limited to:
            (1)   Roof line and/or roof overhang variations, projections or
recesses, windows, public art, building massing setbacks, changes in color,
material, or texture, awnings, canopies, balconies, porticoes and moldings.
      7.   Architectural elements shall be combined with landscaping to add
interest to buildings, and especially to break up long expanses.
      8.   Materials: Walls of the building facing or abutting public sidewalks
or streets shall be comprised of at least thirty percent (30%) building
materials other than steel, vinyl and fiberglass.
      9.    Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened
to not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      10. Overhead doors and loading docks:
         a.   Shall not face public streets or frontage roads unless screened
from view;
         b.   Shall not face required front yards; and
         c.   Shall meet the requirements of chapter 21.
      11.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make
exceptions to this section if the design and construction meet the intent of
the MU-3 district. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE D. MU-4 GATEWAY MIXED USE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-15D-1: Purpose
10-15D-2: Permitted Uses
10-15D-3: Accessory Uses
10-15D-4: Provisional Uses
10-15D-5: Conditional Uses
10-15D-6: Prohibited Uses
10-15D-7: Site Requirements
10-15D-8: Design And Construction
10-15D-1:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of the MU-4 district is to create a flexible approach to land use
for mixed residential and commercial development and to provide a higher
standard of appearance along the Gateway Corridors. The MU-4 district
encourages a variety of uses aimed at providing a diversity of jobs,
residential opportunities, and concentrated commercial services and shopping
facilities. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15D-2:   PERMITTED USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15D-3:   ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in the MU-4 district:
   Buildings, structures or uses accessory to the principal use.
   Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages, parking
spaces and carports are to be used for storing of private passenger vehicles
belonging to residents and/or employees on the premises, and shall not be used
to conduct commercial business, service or industry. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025;
amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15D-4:   PROVISIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Provisional uses are permitted as long as they meet the provisions
outlined in chapter 6 and
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15D-5:   CONDITIONAL USES:
See use table in
10-18-1 . Conditional uses are permitted as long as they meet the criteria
outlined in chapter 4 and
10-18-2 , and any additional conditions required by the city council. (Ord.
2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-15D-6:   PROHIBITED USES:
The following are prohibited uses in the MU-4 district:
   Outdoor storage in Gateway Overlay District portion of property (does not
include sales displays).
   Also see use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-
24-2025)
10-15D-7:   SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the MU-4 district
subject to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in
this title:
   A.   Lot Area: None.
   B.   Lot Width: None.
   C.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front yard: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Interior side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Common wall: Zero feet (0').
      4.   Street side yard: Ten feet (10')
      5.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      6.   Outdoor sales displays: None.
      7.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   D.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Principal building: None.
      2.   Accessory buildings: See
10-18-3 .
   E.   Parking and Loading Spaces: See chapters 20 and 21. The off-street
parking regulations in chapter 20 may be reduced by submitting a plan
documenting the estimated parking demand for the proposed use, parking
reduction request, alternative parking options that will be integrated (e.g.,
shared parking facilities, bicycle parking, or other parking options) and
consistency with the purpose of this chapter.
   F.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: See Chapter 19.
   G.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage: Eighty five percent (85%).
      1.   The zoning administrator has the authority to authorize an
additional one percent (1%) of maximum impervious surface in each of the
following circumstances:
         a.   Use of onsite stormwater retention pond.
         b.   Other methods employed by the developer that will reduce
significantly the impact of the impervious surface coverage of the lot.
   H.   Lighting: Shall be directed downward, inward and away from public right
of way and adjoining uses, consistent with
10-19-19 .
   I.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity: Identifiable and safe pedestrian
walkways within the site recommended to interconnect front doors of
establishments to transit stops and/or public sidewalks.
   Developments should also establish a sidewalk connection to adjacent blocks
and between parking areas and adjacent uses, as applicable.
   J.    Refuse and recycling storage: See Chapter 19. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-
2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-15D-8:   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the MU-4 district shall meet Gateway Overlay District
standards (see 10-17E).
The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions to this
section if the design and construction meet the intent of the MU-4 and Gateway
Overlay Districts. (Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
CHAPTER 16
SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES
ARTICLE A. P PUBLIC FACILITIES DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-16A-1: Purpose
10-16A-2: Permitted Uses
10-16A-3: Accessory Uses
10-16A-4: Provisional Uses
10-16A-5: Conditional Uses
10-16A-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-16A-7: Maximum Building Height
10-16A-8: Maximum Lot Coverage
10-16A-1: PURPOSE:
The P public facilities district is established to promote the development,
maintenance, use, and identification of municipally owned, dedicated, or leased
land, structures, open space, parks, and other property. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-
2007)
10-16A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in any P district:
Essential services and essential service structures.
Municipally owned golf courses, tennis courts, skating rinks, playing fields,
and other recreational facilities.
Municipally owned parks and open space.
Restaurants, concessions, and hospitality services.
Towers which meet the requirements of chapter 17, article D of this title.
Other uses not listed but similar to the permitted uses herein and consistent
with the stated purpose of this district. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-3: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory uses and activities customarily incidental to and found with
the permitted uses outlined in this article. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
Limited licensed food operations; provided, that:
   A.   The food operation has received written permission from the parks and
recreation division manager or his or her designee, and
   B.   If listed as a requirement from the parks and recreation division
manager, the food operation is a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more
from any special event, and
   C.   All applicable state and city laws governing such uses are strictly
adhered to and all required operating permits and licenses are secured. (Ord.
2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in a P district:
None. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following minimum requirements should be observed in a P district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot area: None.
   B.   Lot width: None.
   C.   Lot depth: None.
   D.   Setbacks: None. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   None. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
10-16A-8: MAXIMUM LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   None. (Ord. 2007-4, 4-16-2007)
ARTICLE B. INS INSTITUTIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-16B-1: Purpose
10-16B-2: Permitted Uses
10-16B-3: Accessory Uses
10-16B-4: Provisional Uses
10-16B-5: Other Uses
10-16B-6: Lot Requirements And Setbacks
10-16B-1: PURPOSE:
The INS institutional district is intended to accommodate facilities capable of
providing services to large groups in a campuslike setting as the district
should encourage institutions to plan long range for geographical expansion,
providing surrounding property owners with information as to those plans. (Ord.
2007-3, 3-5-2007)
10-16B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in an INS district:
Any permitted uses in the zoning district in effect immediately prior to the
property being zoned institutional. Yard and setback requirements for these
uses shall be the same as were in effect for that property immediately prior to
the property being zoned institutional.
Colleges, universities and other postsecondary institutions of higher
education, including all facilities customarily located on such campuses, but
excluding campus organizations.
Elementary through secondary schools.
Essential services.
Hospitals, nursing homes, dependent care facilities and retirement homes.
Licensed preschool, childcare centers, and facilities that provide residential
and nonresidential programs.
Publicly owned governmental or cultural buildings, including, but not limited
to, libraries, city offices, county offices, public works facilities,
auditoriums, public administration buildings and historical developments.
Government and public regulated utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the city.
Religious institutions. (Ord. 2007-3, 3-5-2007; amd. Ord. 2008-26, 12-8-2008;
Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019)
10-16B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
The following are permitted accessory uses in an INS district:
Uses and activities customarily incidental to and found with the permitted and
conditional uses outlined in this article. (Ord. 2007-3, 3-5-2007; amd. Ord.
2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-16B-4: PROVISIONAL USES:
The following are provisional uses in an INS district:
Cemeteries or memorial gardens; provided that the site accesses a minor
arterial or arterial street.
Recreational facilities as a principal use; provided that:
   A.   The principal use, function or activity is open and outdoor in
character.
   B.   Not more than five percent (5%) of the land area of the site is covered
by buildings or structures.
   C.   When abutting a residential use or a residential use district, the
property is screened and landscaped in compliance with chapter 19 of this
title.
Towers which meet the requirements of chapter 17, article D of this title.
(Ord. 2007-3, 3-5-2007)
10-16B-5: OTHER USES:
Other uses not outlined above may be considered utilizing the planned unit
development process outlined in article C of this chapter and chapter 17,
article A of this title. (Ord. 2014-15, 8-25-2014)
10-16B-6: LOT REQUIREMENTS AND SETBACKS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in an INS district subject
to the additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title:
   A.   Lot area: Three (3) acres.
   B.   Lot width: One hundred feet (100').
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than thirty five feet (35'). For this section,
the front yard on a corner lot shall be determined by the zoning administrator
after giving consideration to visual impact, orientation of neighboring
buildings, the height and architectural style of the building, and predominance
of traffic flows on adjacent streets.
      2.   Side Or Rear Yard: Not less than fifteen feet (15') where abutting a
residential use or a public street provided that for any portion of a building
or structure within thirty five feet (35') of a side or rear lot line, one
additional foot of yard shall be provided for each foot of height in excess of
twenty five feet (25') up to a maximum of thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2007-3,
3-5-2007; amd. Ord. 2014-15, 8-25-2014)
ARTICLE C. PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-16C-1: Purpose
10-16C-2: Application
10-16C-3: Special Procedures
10-16C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the PUD planned unit development district is to provide a
district for master planning unique areas in a manner that allows for
creativity and innovation in site design, architecture, integration of land
uses, enhanced pedestrian environments, integration of storm water features and
connected open spaces. The PUD district is intended to allow development
patterns that are consistent with the comprehensive plan, but may otherwise be
prohibited under the traditional zoning standards. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-16C-2: APPLICATION:
All permitted, permitted accessory, or conditional uses contained in chapter 18
of this title shall be treated as potentially allowed uses within a PUD
district. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-16C-3: SPECIAL PROCEDURES:
Whether requested as a rezoning or initially established by city action alone,
a PUD planned unit development district shall be established and governed
subject to the amendment and procedure requirements as outlined in chapter 3 of
this title, plus the procedures and conditions imposed by chapter 17, article A
of this title. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 17
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-17A-1: Purpose
10-17A-2: General Requirements And Standards
10-17A-3: Submission Requirements
10-17A-4: Procedure For Processing A Planned Unit Development
10-17A-1: PURPOSE:
This article is established to provide comprehensive procedures and standards
designed to allow greater flexibility, uniqueness, innovative design and energy
conservation in the development of neighborhoods or areas by incorporating a
mixture of densities/intensities or use types when applied to a PUD district.
The PUD process, by allowing deviation from the strict provisions of this title
related to setbacks, height, lot area, width and depth, yards, etc., by
conditional use permit or the mix of uses by PUD zoning, is intended to
encourage:
   A.   Innovations in development to the end that the growing demands for all
styles of economic expansion may be met by greater variety in type, design and
siting of structures and by the conservation and more efficient use of land in
such developments.
   B.   Higher standards of site and building design through the use of land
planners, architects and landscape architects.
   C.   More convenience in location and design of development and service
facilities.
   D.   The preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics such
as natural topography and geologic features and the prevention of soil erosion.
   E.   A creative use of land and related physical development which allows a
phased and orderly transition of land from rural to urban uses.
   F.   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities and
streets thereby lowering development costs and public investments.
   G.   A development pattern in harmony with the objectives of the
comprehensive plan. (PUD is not intended as a means to vary applicable planning
and zoning principles.)
   H.   A more desirable and creative environment than might be possible
through the strict application of zoning and subdivision regulations of the
city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17A-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
   A.   Ownership: An application for PUD must be filed by the landowner or
jointly by all landowners of the property or their agent(s) included in a
project. The application and all submissions must be directed to the
development of the property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple
ownership, the approved final plan shall be binding on all owners.
   B.   Comprehensive Plan Consistency: The proposed PUD shall be consistent
with the city comprehensive plan.
   C.   Sanitary Sewer Plan Consistency: The proposed PUD shall be consistent
with the city comprehensive sewer plan.
   D.   Compatibility: The proposed PUD shall be compatible with the adjacent
land uses.
   E.   Common Open Space: Common open space at least sufficient to meet the
minimum requirements established in the comprehensive plan and such
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the benefit and enjoyment of the residents/users of the PUD shall be provided
within the area of the PUD development.
   F.   Operating And Maintenance Requirements For PUD Common Open Space/
Facilities: Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard. Common open space and service facilities
within a PUD may be placed under the ownership of one or more of the following,
as approved by the city:
      1.   Dedicated to public, where a communitywide use is anticipated and
the city agrees to accept the dedication.
      2.   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated.
      3.   Property owners' association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
         a.   Prior to the use or occupancy or sale or the execution of
contracts for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tracts or common
area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or an equivalent
document or document such as specified by laws 1963, chapter 457, section 11
and a set of floor plans such as specified by laws 1963, chapter 457, section
13 shall be filed with the city, said filing with the city to be made prior to
the filings of said declaration or document or floor plans with the recording
officers of Clay County.
         b.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of conveyance
affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses or apartments shall
subject said properties to the terms of said declaration.
         c.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall
provide that an owners' association or corporation shall be formed and that all
owners shall be members of said association or corporation which shall maintain
all properties and common areas in good repair and which shall assess
individual property owners proportionate shares of joint or common costs. The
intent of this requirement is to protect the property values of the individual
owner through establishing private control.
         d.   The declaration shall additionally, amongst other things, provide
that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain properties
in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city or fails to
pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due and in the event the
city incurs any expenses in enforcing its rules and regulations, which said
expenses are not immediately reimbursed by the association or corporation, then
the city shall have the right to assess each property its prorated share of
said expenses. Such assessments, together with interest thereon and costs of
collection, shall be a lien on each property against which such assessment is
made.
         e.   Membership must be mandatory for each owner and any successive
buyer.
         f.   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a given
period of years.
         g.   The association must be responsible for liability insurance,
local taxes, and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be deeded to
it.
         h.   Property owners must pay a prorated share of the cost of the
association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association which
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
Minnesota statutes.
         i.   The association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changed needs.
   G.   Staging Of Public And Common Open Space: When a PUD provides for common
or public open space, and is planned as a staged development over a period of
time, the total area of common or public open space or land escrow security in
any stage of development shall, at a minimum, bear the same relationship to the
total open space to be provided in the entire PUD as the stages or units
completed or under development bear to the entire PUD.
   H.   Density: The maximum allowable density in a PUD zoning district shall
be determined by standards negotiated and agreed upon between the applicant and
the city. In all cases, the negotiated standards shall be consistent with the
development policies as contained in the comprehensive plan. Whenever a PUD is
to be developed in stages, no such stage shall, when averaged with all
previously completed stages, have a residential density that exceeds one
hundred percent (100%) of the proposed residential density of the entire PUD. A
PUD by conditional use permit must comply with the applicable base zoning
district.
   I.   Utilities: In any PUD, all utilities, including telephone, electricity,
gas and telecable shall be installed underground.
   J.   Utility Connections:
      1.   Water Connections: Where more than one property is served from the
same service line, individual unit shutoff valves shall be provided as required
by the city.
      2.   Sewer Connections: Must comply with the state plumbing code.
   K.   Roadways: All streets shall conform to the design standards contained
in the subdivision title of this code, unless otherwise approved by the city.
In any PUD, at the request of the city, the applicant shall submit a snow
removal plan.
   L.   Landscaping: In any PUD, landscaping shall be provided according to a
plan approved by the city, which shall include a detailed planting list with
sizes and species indicated as part of the final plan. In assessing the
landscaping plan, the city shall consider the natural features of the
particular site, the architectural characteristics of the proposed structures
and the overall scheme of the PUD plan.
   M.   Urban/Rural Servicing Requirements: All development will be carefully
phased so as to ensure that all developable land will be accorded a present
vested right to develop at such time as services and facilities are available.
Lands which have the necessary available municipal facilities and services will
be granted approval in accordance with existing city code provisions and
development techniques. Lands which lack the available public facilities and
services may be granted approval for development, provided that all applicable
provisions of this title, this code and state regulations are complied with.
   N.   Setbacks: The front and side yard restrictions of the periphery of the
planned unit development conditional use permit site at a minimum shall be the
same as imposed in the base zoning districts. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17A-3: SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
Eight (8) large scale copies and one reduction, eight and one- half inches by
eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), of the following exhibits, analysis and plans
shall be submitted to the city during the PUD process, at the times specified
in chapter 3 of this title.
   A.   General Concept Stage:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   The landowner's name and address and their interest in the
subject property.
         b.   The applicant's name and address if different from the landowner.
         c.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property to effectuate the proposed PUD, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
subject property and including an up to date certified abstract of title or
registered property report, and such other evidences as the city attorney may
require to show the status of title or control of the subject property.
      2.   Present Status:
         a.   The address and legal description of the subject property.
         b.   The existing zoning classification and present use of the subject
property and all lands within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject
property.
         c.   A map depicting the existing development of the subject property
and all land within one thousand feet (1,000') thereof and indicating the
location of existing streets, property lines, easements, water mains and storm
and sanitary sewers, with invert elevations on and within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property.
      3.   Written Statement: A written statement generally describing the
proposed PUD and the market which it is intended to serve and its demand
showing its relationship to the comprehensive plan and how the proposed PUD is
to be designed, arranged and operated in order to permit the development and
use of neighboring property in accordance with the applicable regulations of
the city.
      4.   Site Conditions: Graphic reproductions of the existing site
conditions at a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         a.   Contours: Minimum one-half foot (1/2') intervals.
         b.   Location, type and extent of tree cover.
         c.   Slope analysis.
         d.   Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands and streams and
floodplains within three hundred feet (300') of the subject property.
         e.   Existing drainage patterns.
         f.   Soil conditions as they affect development.
All of the graphics should be the same scale as the final plan to allow easy
cross reference. The use of overlays is recommended for clear reference.
      5.   Schematic Drawings: Schematic drawing of the proposed development
concept including, but not limited to, the general location of major
circulation elements, public and common open space, residential and other land
uses.
      6.   Dwelling Units And Allocation Of: A statement of the estimated total
number of dwelling units proposed for the PUD and a tabulation of the proposed
approximate allocations of land use expressed in acres and as a percent of the
total project area, which shall include at least the following:
         a.   Area devoted to uses.
         b.   Area devoted to use by building type.
         c.   Area devoted to common open space.
         d.   Area devoted to public open space.
         e.   Approximate area devoted to streets.
         f.   Approximate area devoted to, and number of, off street parking
and loading spaces and related access.
      7.   Schedule Of Development: When the PUD is to be constructed in stages
during a period of time extending beyond a single construction season, a
schedule for the development of such stages or units shall be submitted stating
the approximate beginning and completion date for each such stage or unit and
the proportion of the total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units
to be provided or constructed during each such stage, and the overall
chronology of development to be followed from stage to stage.
      8.   Care And Maintenance Of Open Space/Service Facilities: When the
proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common open space or service
facilities, a statement describing the provision that is to be made for the
care and maintenance of such open space or service facilities.
      9.   Restrictive Covenants: General intent of any restrictive covenants
that are to be recorded with respect to property included in the proposed PUD.
      10.   Utilities Plans: Schematic utilities plans indicating placement of
water, sanitary and storm sewers.
      11.   Exemption From Submittal Requirements: The city may excuse an
applicant from submitting any specific item of information or document required
in this stage, which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the
specific proposal for PUD approval.
      12.   Additional Information: The city may require the submission of any
additional information or documentation which it may find necessary or
appropriate to full consideration of the proposed PUD or any aspect or stage
thereof.
   B.   Development Stage: Development stage submissions should depict and
outline the proposed implementations of the general concept stage for the PUD.
Information from the general concept stage may be included for background and
to provide a basis for the submitted plan. The development stage submissions
shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Zoning classification required for development stage submission and
any other public decisions necessary for implementation of the proposed plan.
      2.   Eight (8) sets of preliminary plans, drawn to a scale of not less
than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') or scale requested by the
city and one reduction eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x
11"), containing at least the following information:
         a.   Proposed name of the development (which shall not duplicate nor
be similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat theretofore recorded in
Clay County).
         b.   Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property and any
significant topographical or physical features of the property.
         c.   The location, size, use and arrangement including height in
stories and feet and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area,
of proposed buildings, and existing buildings which will remain, if any.
         d.   Location, dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb cuts,
parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other circulation
elements including bike and pedestrian; and the total site coverage of all
elements.
         e.   Location, designation and total area of all common open space.
         f.   Location, designation and total area proposed to be conveyed or
dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds, school sites and
recreational facilities.
         g.   Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system.
         h.   The location, use and size of structures and other land uses on
adjacent properties.
         i.   Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed landscaping.
         j.   General grading and drainage plans for the developed PUD.
         k.   Any other information that may have been required by the city in
conjunction with the approval of the general concept plan.
      3.   An accurate legal description of the entire area within the PUD for
which final development plan approval is sought.
      4.   A tabulation indicating the number of residential dwelling units and
expected population.
      5.   A tabulation indicating the gross square footage, if any, of
commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (e.g., drugstore, dry
cleaning, supermarket).
      6.   Preliminary architectural "typical" plans indicating use, floor
plan, elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed buildings, including
mobile homes.
      7.   A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the physical
layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights of way, utility
lines and facilities, lots, blocks, public and common open space, general
landscaping plan, structure, including mobile homes and uses.
      8.   Preliminary grading and site alteration plan illustrating changes to
existing topography and natural site vegetation. The plan should clearly
reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved concept plan.
      9.   A preliminary plat prepared in accordance with the subdivision title
of this code.
      10.   A soil erosion control plan acceptable to watershed districts,
department of natural resources, soil conservation service, or any other agency
with review authority clearly illustrating erosion control measures to be used
during construction and as permanent measures.
      11.   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made in any
document, plan, data or information previously submitted, together with revised
copies of any such document, plan or data.
      12.   Such other and further information as the city shall find necessary
to a full consideration of the entire proposed PUD or any stage thereof.
      13.   The city may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific item
of information or document required in this article it finds to be unnecessary
to the consideration of the specific proposal for PUD approval.
   C.   Final Plan Stage: After approval of a general concept plan by the
planning commission for the PUD and approval of a development stage plan by the
city council for a section of the proposed PUD, the applicant will submit the
following material for review by the city prior to issuance of a building
permit.
      1.   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior to
the sale of any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment
and activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility.
      2.   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recording of documents.
      3.   Final architectural working drawings of all structures.
      4.   A final plat and final engineering plans and specifications for
streets, utilities and other public improvements, together with a city/
applicant agreement for the installation of such improvements and financial
guarantees for the completion of such improvements.
      5.   Any other plan, agreements, or specifications necessary for the city
to review the proposed construction. All work must be in conformance with the
state uniform building code. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17A-4: PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   General Processing Requirements: The PUD request shall be processed
according to chapter 3 or chapter 4 of this title as may be applicable, except
as herein modified.
   B.   Application Conference: Prior to filing of an application for PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD is encouraged to arrange a conference with the
city. The primary purpose of the conference shall be to provide the applicant
with an opportunity to gather information and obtain guidance as to the general
suitability of the proposal for the area for which it is proposed and its
conformity to the provisions of this article before incurring substantial
expense in the preparation of plans, surveys and other data.
   C.   General Concept Plan:
      1.   Purpose: The general concept plan provides an opportunity for the
applicant to submit a plan to the city showing his basic intent and the general
nature of the entire development without incurring substantial cost. The
following elements of the proposed general concept plan represents the
immediately significant elements for city review and comment.
         a.   Overall maximum PUD density range.
         b.   General location of major streets and pedestrianways.
         c.   General location and extent of public and common open space.
         d.   General location of residential and nonresidential land uses with
approximate type and intensities of development.
         e.   Staging and time schedule of development.
         f.   Other special criteria for development.
      2.   Schedule:
         a.   The applicant shall file the concept stage application, together
with all supporting data and filing fee as established by council resolution.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days after verification by the city that the
application and required supportive material is completed and adequate, the
request shall be processed in accordance with the applicable procedures and
schedule as defined by chapter 3 of this title.
      3.   Optional Submission Of Development Stage Plan: In the case of single
stage PUDs or where the first stage of a multiple stage PUD is to begin
immediately, the applicant may initially submit development stage plans and
supportive material. In such case, the city shall consider and act upon such
plans according to the applicable provisions of this article.
      4.   Effect Of Concept Plan Approval: Unless the applicant shall fail to
meet time schedules for filing development stage and final plans, or shall fail
to proceed with development in accordance with the plans as approved, or shall
in any other manner fail to comply with any condition of this title or of any
approval granted pursuant to it, a general concept plan which has been approved
shall not be modified, revoked or otherwise impaired pending the application of
development stage and final plans by any action of the city without the consent
of the applicant.
      5.   Limitation On General Concept Plan Approval: Unless a development
stage plan covering at least ten (10) dwelling units or the area designated in
the general concept plan as the first stage of the PUD, whichever is greater,
has been filed within six (6) months from the date city grants general concept
plan approval, or in any case where the applicant fails to file development
stage and final plans and to proceed with development in accordance with the
provisions of this title and of an approved general concept plan, the approval
shall lapse. Upon request by the applicant, the council at its discretion may
extend for additional periods, not in excess of six (6) months each, the filing
deadline for any development stage plan, when, for good cause shown, such
extension is necessary.
   D.   Development Stage:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the development stage plan is to provide a
specific and particular plan upon which the planning commission will base its
recommendation to the council and with which substantial compliance is
necessary for the preparation of the final plan.
      2.   Submission Of Development Stage: Upon approval of the general
concept plan, and within the time established in subsection C5 of this section,
the applicant shall file with the city a development stage plan consisting of
the information and submissions required by subsection 10-17A-3B of this
article for the entire PUD or for one or more stages thereof in accordance with
a staging plan approved as part of the general concept plan. The development
stage plan shall refine, implement and be in substantial conformity with the
approved general concept plan.
      3.   Review And Action By City Staff And Planning Commission:
         a.   Immediately upon receipt of a completed development stage plan,
said plan shall be referred to the following city staff and/or official bodies
for the indicated action.
            (1)   The city attorney for legal review of all documents.
            (2)   The city engineer for review of all engineering data and the
city/developer agreement.
            (3)   The building official for review of all building plans.
            (4)   The city manager or his agent for review of all plans for
compliance with the intent, purpose and requirements of this title and
conformity with the general concept plan and comprehensive plan.
            (5)   The planning commission for review and recommendation to the
council.
            (6)   When appropriate, as determined by the city manager to other
special review agencies and governmental jurisdictions.
         b.   The review and action by city staff and/or official bodies so
designated shall be completed within ninety (90) days of the receipt of a
completed development stage plan.
      4.   Council Action: Within one hundred fifty (150) days of the receipt
of a completed development stage plan, the city council shall act to deny or
approve the request.
      5.   PUD Enactment: Final approval of a PUD conditional use permit or PUD
zoning district map amendment shall be considered granted only at the time of
development stage plan approval by the city council.
      6.   Limitation On Development Stage Plan Approval: Unless a final plan
covering the area designated in the development stage plan as the first stage
of the PUD has been filed within six (6) months from the date council grants
development stage plan approval, or in any case where the applicant fails to
file final plans and to proceed with development in accordance with the
provisions of this title and/or an approved development stage plan, the
approval shall expire. Upon application by the applicant, the council at its
discretion may extend for not more than six (6) months, the filing deadline for
any final plan when, for good cause shown, such extension is necessary.
      7.   Site Improvements: At any time following the approval of a
development stage plan by the council, the applicant may, pursuant to the
applicable city code provisions, apply for, and the city may issue, grading
permits for the area within the PUD for which development stage plan approval
has been given.
   E.   Final Plan:
      1.   Purpose: The final plan is to serve as a complete, thorough and
permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is to be
developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city code provisions as the land use regulation
application to the PUD. The final plan is intended only to add detail to, and
to put in final form, the information contained in the development stage plan
and shall conform to the development stage plan in all respects.
      2.   Schedule:
         a.   Upon approval of the development stage plan, and within the time
established in subsection D6 of this section, the applicant shall file with the
city a final plan consisting of the information and submissions required in
this section for the entire PUD or for one or more stages. This plan will be
reviewed and approved or denied by city staff.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of its approval, the applicant shall
cause the final plan, or such portions thereof as are appropriate, to be
recorded with the county recorder or registrar of titles. The applicant shall
provide the city with a signed copy verifying county recording within forty
(40) days of the date of approval.
      3.   Building And Other Permits: Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein, upon receiving notice from the city that the approved final plan has
been recorded and upon application of the applicant pursuant to the applicable
city code provisions, the city may issue building and other permits to the
applicant for development, construction and other work in the area encompassed
by the approved final plan; provided, however, that no such permit shall be
issued unless the city is first satisfied that the requirements of all codes
and city code provisions which are applicable to the permit sought, have been
met.
      4.   Limitation Of Final Plan Approval: Within one year after the
approval of a final plan for PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by
the approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with such approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall, unless an extension shall have been granted as hereinafter provided,
automatically render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan, and
the area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those
provisions of this title, and other city code provisions, applicable in the
district in which it is located. In such cases, the council shall forthwith
adopt a resolution repealing the PUD permit and all PUD approvals and
reestablish the zoning and other city code provisions that would otherwise be
applicable. The time limit established may, at the discretion of the council,
be extended for not more than one year.
      5.   Inspections During Development:
         a.   Compliance With Overall Plan: Following final plan approval of a
PUD, or a stage thereof, the city shall, at least annually until the completion
of the development, review all permits issued and construction undertaken and
compare actual development with the approved development schedule.
         b.   Noncompliance With Schedule: If the city finds that development
is not proceeding in accordance with the approved schedule, or that it fails in
any other respect to comply with the PUD plans as finally approved, the city
shall either by ordinance revoke the PUD permit, and the land shall thereafter
be governed by the regulations applicable in the district in which it is
located; or shall take such steps as it shall deem necessary to compel
compliance with the final plans as approved; or shall require the landowner or
applicant to seek an amendment to the final plan. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE B. FLOODWAY (FW) AND FLOOD FRINGE (FF) OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-17B-1: Statutory Authorization And Purpose
10-17B-2: FW And FF General Provisions
10-17B-3: Establishment Of Floodway And Flood Fringe Zoning Overlay Districts
10-17B-4: FW Floodway Overlay District
10-17B-4-1: FW Permitted Uses
10-17B-4-2: FW Conditional Uses
10-17B-4-3: FW Standards For Conditional Uses
10-17B-5: FF Flood Fringe Overlay District
10-17B-5-1: FF Permitted Uses
10-17B-5-2: FF Provisional Uses
10-17B-5-3: FF Conditional Uses
10-17B-5-4: Standards For All Flood Fringe Uses
10-17B-6: Additional Standards For All Flood Fringe And Floodway Uses
10-17B-7: Administration Of Floodway And Flood Fringe Overlay Districts
10-17B-7-1: Permits
10-17B-7-2: Variances, Board Of Adjustment And Appeals Action
10-17B-7-3: Conditional Use Permits; Planning Commission And Council Action
10-17B-7-4: Amendments
10-17B-8: Properties With An Approved Letter Of Map Revision - Based On Fill
(LOMR-F)
10-17B-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Minnesota has,
in Minnesota statutes chapters 103F and 462 delegated the responsibility to
local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
   B.   Purpose: The special flood hazard areas of the city of Moorhead are
subject to periodic inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare. It is the purpose of this article to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those
losses described above by provisions contained herein.
This article is adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the
national flood insurance program codified as 44 code of federal regulations
parts 59 - 78, as amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the
national flood insurance program. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-2: FW AND FF GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Study And Map Adopted By Reference: The flood insurance study for Clay
County, Minnesota and incorporated areas, the flood insurance rate maps therein
numbered 27027C0308E, 27027C0309E, 27027C0316E, 27027C0317E, 27027C0318E,
27027C0319E, 27027C0328E, 27027C0338E, 27027C0340E, 27027C0456E, 27027C0457E,
27027C0458E, 27027C0459E, 27027C0470E, 27027C0480E, 27027C0481E, 27027C0484E
and the flood insurance rate map index numbered 27027CIND2A and 27027CIND1A,
all dated April 17, 2012, and prepared by the federal emergency management
agency, are hereby adopted by reference and are hereby declared to be a part of
this title. The maps covering the city boundaries of the city of Moorhead and
any maps of property annexed into the city of Moorhead are declared to be part
of the official zoning map. The floodway district shall comprise those areas
shown as floodway on the flood insurance rate map. The flood fringe shall
comprise those areas within the 100-year floodplain (i.e., zone AE) shown on
the flood insurance rate map located outside of the floodway.
   B.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the floodway and flood fringe (the
floodplain) shall be determined by use of the 100-year flood profile, the
ground elevations that existed on the date of the first national flood
insurance program map showing the area in the floodplain (dated July 1, 1974)
and other supporting technical data in the flood insurance study and by scaling
distances off the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the official
zoning map or other appropriate maps, as for example, where there appears to be
a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions, the city
shall make the necessary interpretation based on the criteria stated above.
Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present their case to the board of adjustment and to
submit technical evidence.
   C.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: This title does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title will not
create liability on the part of the city of Moorhead or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this article
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this article imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this article shall prevail. All other regulations in this title
inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
   E.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
article is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this article shall not be affected thereby.
   F.   Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels: The flood insurance rate map panels
adopted by reference into subsection A of this section may include floodplain
areas that lie outside of the corporate boundaries of the city of Moorhead at
the time of adoption of this article. If any of these floodplain land areas are
annexed into the city of Moorhead after the date of adoption of this article,
the newly annexed floodplain lands shall be subject to the provisions of this
article immediately upon the date of annexation into the city of Moorhead.
(Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODWAY AND FLOOD FRINGE ZONING OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   The use districts lying within the floodplain areas under the
jurisdiction of this title are hereby divided into two (2) additional
districts: floodway district (FW) and flood fringe district (FF) as follows:
Floodway District: The floodway district shall include those areas designated
as floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in subsection 10-17B-2A of
this article.
Flood Fringe District: The flood fringe district shall include those areas
designated as floodway fringe. The flood fringe district shall include those
areas shown on the flood insurance rate map as adopted in subsection 10-17B-2A
of this article as being within zone AE but being located outside of the
floodway.
   B.   The boundaries of these districts shall be shown on the official zoning
map. Within these districts, all uses not allowed as permitted uses or as
conditional uses shall be prohibited. No new structure or land shall hereafter
be used and no structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of
this title.
   C.   Removal of lands from the designated floodplain shall require the
following: an amendment to the official zoning map as outlined in chapter 3 of
this title; adoption of the approved FEMA case number within this article; and
shall be in compliance with Minnesota rules 6120.5800 subpart 2. (Ord. 2012-1,
2-27-2012)
10-17B-4: FW FLOODWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT:
10-17B-4-1: FW PERMITTED USES:
The following uses must have a low flood damage potential, must be permissible
in the underlying zoning district if one exists, must not obstruct flood flows
or increase flood elevations, and must not involve structures, fill,
obstructions, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment.
General farming, farm fence, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis courts,
driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming
areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, fishing areas, bicycle and
pedestrian trails.
Residential, commercial and industrial lawns, gardens, plant nurseries, parking
and loading areas and play areas. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-06,
3-28-2022)
10-17B-4-2: FW CONDITIONAL USES:
Structures accessory to those uses listed in section
10-17B-4-1 of this article and the uses listed below:
Circuses, carnivals and similar transient amusement enterprises.
Drive-in theaters, new and used car lots, roadside stands, signs and
billboards.
Extraction of sand, gravel, dirt or other materials provided such materials are
not piled and/or stored in the floodway.
Fences that obstruct flood flows.
Kennels.
Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control structures.
Placement of fill.
Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, utility boxes, and
pipelines.
Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in existing or new
subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds, subject to the
exemptions and provisions of subsection 10-17B-6C of this article.
Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials.
Structural works for flood control such as dams, diversion channels, levees and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees and dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops.
Uses or structures accessory to passive or active open space areas. (Ord. 2012-
1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-4-3: FW STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USES:
All such uses require a conditional use permit based upon the procedures set
forth in and regulated by chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title.
   A.   Fill: Any fill proposed to be deposited in the floodway must be shown
to have some beneficial purpose and the amount thereof must not exceed that
necessary to achieve the intended purpose, as demonstrated by a plan submitted
by the owner showing the uses to which the filled land will be put and final
dimensions of the proposed fill or other materials. Such fill shall not
increase the designated 100-year flood elevation by more than 0.00 feet and
shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover, mulching, riprap, or other
acceptable method.
   B.   Accessory Structures (Temporary Or Permanent):
      1.   Structures shall not be designated for human habitation.
      2.   Structures shall have a low flood damage potential.
      3.   The structure or structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of floodwaters.
         a.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow, and
         b.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed approximately
on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
      4.   Structures shall be adequately anchored to prevent flotation which
may result in damage to other structures and/or restriction of bridge openings
and other narrow sections of the stream or river.
      5.   Utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer and water
systems to be located in the floodway shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the Minnesota state building code or elevated to above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      6.   Structures shall be elevated on fill or floodproofed to the FP-1 or
FP-2 floodproofing classifications as defined by the Minnesota state building
code. As an alternative, an accessory structure may be floodproofed to the FP-
3 or FP-4 floodproofing classification in the Minnesota state building code
provided the accessory structure constitutes a minimal investment, does not
exceed five hundred seventy six (576) square feet in size at its largest
projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be used solely
for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed accessory
structures must meet the following additional standards:
         a.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed to equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
         b.   Utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer and water
systems to be located in the floodway shall be floodproofed in accordance with
the Minnesota state building code or elevated to above the regulatory flood
protection elevation; and
         c.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there must
be a minimum of two (2) "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot (1') above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure.
Using human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not
satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
   C.   Storage Of Material And Equipment:
      1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      2.   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or readily
removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
   D.   Garbage And Solid Waste Disposal: No conditional use permits for
garbage and waste disposal sites shall be issued for floodway areas.
   E.   Permanent Structural Works For Flood Control:
      1.   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of Minnesota statutes, chapter 103G.
      2.   Communitywide structural works for flood control intended to remove
areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the floodway.
      3.   Structural works for flood control constructed in the floodway shall
not cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood unless the federal
emergency management agency has issued a conditional and final letter of map
revision pursuant to 44 code of federal regulations 65.12 authorizing the stage
increase to the 100-year flood elevation in the floodway. The technical
analysis must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a
stream.
      4.   Levees constructed to protect agricultural crops shall cause no
stage increase to the 100-year flood for any portion of the levee in the
floodway. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-5: FF FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICT:
10-17B-5-1: FF PERMITTED USES:
Any conditional use or permitted use in the floodway overlay district unless
otherwise identified in section
10-17B-5-2 of this article.
All structures, including accessory structures, constructed on fill so that the
lowest floor and electrical, heating, ventilation, duct work, plumbing, air-
conditioning, and other service equipment and facilities are at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. Except as provided in
10-17B-5-1A water, sewer, electrical, and other utility lines below the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall be constructed to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during flooding conditions.
The finished fill elevation shall be no lower than the base flood elevation for
the particular area and shall extend to such elevation at least fifteen feet
(15') beyond the limits of any structure or building erected thereon. As an
alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that constitute a
minimal investment and that do not exceed five hundred seventy six (576) square
feet at its largest projection may be internally floodproofed in accordance
with subsection
10-17B-4-3B6 of this article.
The storage of any materials or equipment elevated on fill to the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
Lots and subdivisions or otherwise legally described areas that have an
approved letter of map revision - based on fill (LOMR-F) as described in and
officially adopted by section
10-17B-8 of this article, which have been filled to an elevation at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation per Minnesota rules 6120.5800,
subpart 2, and are contiguous to other lands lying outside the flood fringe
district and which are in compliance with the following standards are herein
permitted:
   A.   Residential basements may be constructed below the regulatory flood
protection elevation if in compliance with the FP-1 floodproofing
classification (i.e., a W1 space) of the Minnesota state building code and in
accordance with the following minimum requirements, consistent with 44 code of
federal regulation 60.6(c) and the city of Moorhead "basement" exception from
the federal emergency management agency, or the federal emergency management
agency technical bulletin 10-01, as amended:
      1.   Flood Depth: Flood depths shall not be more than five feet (5') for
developable lots that are contiguous to land above the base flood elevation
(100-year flood) or three feet (3') for other lots.
      2.   Flood Velocity: Flood velocity shall be limited to five feet (5')
per second.
      3.   Flood Warning Time: Flood warning time shall be at least twelve (12)
hours. Flood warning times of two (2) hours or greater may be approved if the
community demonstrates that it has a flood warning system and an emergency plan
in operation that is adequate to ensure safe evacuation of affected residents.
      4.   Basement Structural Requirements:
         a.   Basements shall be designed and constructed so that any basement
area, utilities and sanitary facilities below the floodproofed level are
floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 floodproofing classification (e.g.,
watertight with walls impermeable to the passage of water without human
intervention).
         b.   Basement walls shall be built with the capacity to resist the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads as well as the effects of buoyancy resulting
from flooding to the floodproofed design level, and shall be designed so that
minimal damage will occur from floods exceeding that level.
         c.   Floodproofing design level shall be an elevation no lower than
the regulatory flood protection elevation where the difference between the 100-
year flood and the 500-year flood levels is three feet (3') or less and two
feet (2') above the 100-year flood level where the difference between the 100-
year flood and 500-year flood levels is greater than three feet (3').
      5.   Basement Floor: The top of basement floor shall be no lower than
five feet (5') below the 100-year flood level.
      6.   Fill:
         a.   The area surrounding the structure must be filled to an elevation
no lower than the base flood elevation for the particular area and shall extend
to such elevation at least fifteen feet (15') beyond the limits of any
structure or building erected thereon;
         b.   Fill must be compacted to at least ninety five percent (95%) of
standard laboratory maximum dry density (standard proctor), according to the
American Society For Testing And Materials (ASTM) standard D-698, or as
otherwise directed by the city. Fill soils must be fine grained soils of low
permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC, or ML according to the
ASTM standard D-2487, "Classification Of Soils For Engineering Purposes"; and
         c.   Slopes must be protected by a vegetative cover.
      7.   Develop/Review Of Structural Design Of Building: A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop or review the building's
structural design, specifications, and plans, including consideration of depth,
velocity, and duration of flooding and type and permeability of soils at the
building site, and inspect and certify that the basement design, as
constructed, is in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting
the provisions of this paragraph; and
      8.   Inspection Of Structure: The community building official is
authorized to inspect the structure to verify that it meets the provisions of
this section. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 3-28-2022)
10-17B-5-2: FF PROVISIONAL USES:
The following uses require a provisional use permit based upon procedures and
regulated by chapter 6 of this title. The city planner and zoning
administrator, or designee, will provide a copy of the provisional use permit
to the commissioner of natural resources within ten (10) days of its issuance.
   A.   Lots and subdivisions or otherwise legally described areas that have an
approved letter of map revision - based on fill (LOMR-F) as described in
section
10-17B-8 of this article and which are in compliance with the following:
      1.   Residential basements may be constructed below the regulatory flood
protection elevation if in compliance with the FP-1 floodproofing
classification (i.e., a W1 space) of the Minnesota state building code and in
accordance with the requirements in subsection 10-17B-5-1A of this article,
consistent with 44 code of federal regulations 60.6(c) and the city of Moorhead
"basement" exemption from the federal emergency management agency, or the
federal emergency management agency technical bulletin 10-01 as amended, and
only upon compliance with this article and the provisions of chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-5-3: FF CONDITIONAL USES:
Requires a conditional use permit based upon procedures and regulated by
chapter 4 of this title. The following uses may be allowed in the FF flood
fringe overlay district only upon compliance with this article and section
10-17B-7-3 of this article and the provisions of chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title:
   A.   Residential Basements: Residential basements may be constructed below
the regulatory flood protection elevation if in compliance with the FP-
1 floodproofing classification (i.e., a W1 space) of the Minnesota state
building code and in accordance with the requirements in subsection 10-17B-5-1A
of this article, consistent with 44 code of federal regulations 60.6(c) and the
city of Moorhead "basement" exemption from the federal emergency management
agency, or the federal emergency management agency technical bulletin 10-01 as
amended.
   B.   Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
      1.   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
      2.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if readily
removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning and in
accordance with a plan approved by the city.
   C.   Nonresidential Structures: All areas of nonresidential structures,
including basements to be placed below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, shall be floodproofed in accordance with the structurally dry
floodproofing classifications in the Minnesota state building code.
Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classification in the Minnesota state building code and this shall require
making the structure watertight with the walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy.
Structures floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not be
permitted.
   D.   Alternative Elevation Methods:
      1.   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above grade, enclosed areas. The base or
floor of an enclosed area shall be considered above grade and not a structure's
basement or lowest floor if: a) the enclosed area is above grade on at least
one side of the structure; b) it is designed to internally flood and is
constructed with flood resistant materials; and c) it is used solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage. The above noted alternative
elevation methods are subject to the following additional standards:
         a.   Design And Certification: The structure's design and as built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the Minnesota state
building code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at
or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent
floodwater from entering or accumulating within these components during times
of flooding.
         b.   Specific Standards For Above Grade, Enclosed Areas: Above grade,
fully enclosed areas must be designed to internally flood and the design plans
must stipulate:
            (1)   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two (2) openings on at least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade. The
automatic openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area
would suffice. The automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters without any form of human intervention; and
            (2)   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the Minnesota
state building code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of
vehicles or storage. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-5-4: STANDARDS FOR ALL FLOOD FRINGE USES:
   A.   Commercial uses: Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks,
and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a floodplain development permit for such
facilities to be used by the employees or the general public shall not be
granted in the absence of a flood warning system that provides adequate time
for evacuation if the area would be inundated to a depth and velocity such that
when multiplying the depth (in feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the
product number exceeds four (4) upon occurrence of the 100-year flood.
   B.   Manufacturing and industrial uses: Measures shall be taken to minimize
interference with normal plant operations especially along streams having
protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards and
parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
subsection A of this section. In considering permit applications, due
consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires
that it be located in floodplain areas.
   C.   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
   D.   The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation - FEMA's
requirements may incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
   E.   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   F.   Standards for recreational vehicles are contained in subsection 10-17B-
6C of this article. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-6: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR ALL FLOOD FRINGE AND FLOODWAY USES:
   A.   Floodplain Developments: Floodplain developments shall not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment
limit has not been specified on the official zoning map. No use shall affect
the capacity of the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream,
drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or stream.
   B.   Public Utilities, Railroads And Bridges:
      1.   Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be designed to prevent floodwater from entering or accumulating within
during times of flooding or floodproofed in accordance with the Minnesota state
building code or elevated to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      2.   Public Transportation Facilities: Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges shall comply with this article and the zoning title. Elevation to the
regulatory flood protection elevation shall be provided where failure and
interruption of these transportation facilities would result in danger to the
public health or safety or where such facilities are essential to the orderly
functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary railroad tracks, roads or bridges
may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption of
transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety and as
long as such construction is in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the department of natural resources, state of Minnesota, and the federal
emergency management agency.
   C.   Manufactured Homes And Manufactured Home Parks And Placement Of
Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by section
11-7-3 of this code.
      2.   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are located in
floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be placed only
if elevated in compliance with section
10-17B-5 of this article. If vehicular road access for preexisting manufactured
home parks is not provided in accordance with section
10-17B-5-2 of this article, then replacement manufactured homes will not be
allowed until the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan
acceptable to the city.
         a.   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
      3.   Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in subsection C3a of this section shall be subject to the provisions
of this title and as specifically spelled out in subsections C3c and C3d of
this section.
         a.   Exemption: Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions
of this article if they are placed in any of the areas listed in subsection C3b
of this section and further they meet the following criteria:
            (1)   Have current licenses required for highway use.
            (2)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it.
            (3)   The recreational vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any preexisting, underlying zoning use district.
         b.   Areas Exempted For Placement Of Recreational Vehicles:
            (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record.
            (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds.
            (3)   Existing condominium type associations.
         c.   Loss Of Exemption: Recreational vehicles exempted in subsection
C3a of this section lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a structural addition to the
recreational vehicle or exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for an
accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The recreational
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation requirements and the use of
land restrictions specified in this article. There shall be no development or
improvement on the parcel or attachment to the recreational vehicle that
hinders the removal of the recreational vehicle to a flood free location should
flooding occur.
         d.   New Commercial Recreational Vehicle Parks Or Campgrounds: New
commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and new residential type
subdivisions and condominium associations and the expansion of any existing
similar use exceeding five (5) units or dwelling sites shall be subject to the
following:
            (1)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed
in the floodway or flood fringe districts provided said recreational vehicle
and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection
elevation and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with
section
10-17B-5-1 of this article. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or
regional flood.
            (2)   All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of subsection C3d(1) of this section may, as an alternative, be
allowed as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and
the provisions of chapter 4 of this title. The applicant must submit an
emergency plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the
100-year flood. Said plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other
qualified individual, shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist
to carry out the evacuation, and shall demonstrate the provisions of
subsections C3a(1) and C3a(2) of this section will be met. All attendant sewage
and water facilities for new or replacement recreational vehicles must be
protected or constructed so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times
of flooding. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-7: ADMINISTRATION OF FLOODWAY AND FLOOD FRINGE OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
10-17B-7-1: PERMITS:
   A.   Application For Building Permits And Floodplain Development Permits:
Application for a building permit and floodplain development permit shall be
made in accordance with city regulations and the Minnesota state building code.
Additional information for properties located in the floodway district or flood
fringe overlay district shall include plans drawn to scale; elevations of the
lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of materials; and the
location of the foregoing in relation to the channel.
   B.   Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans And
Permits: Additional requirements beyond those provided elsewhere in this title
for properties in the floodway or flood fringe overlay district include the
requirement to submit certification by a registered professional engineer,
architect or land surveyor as appropriate, that the finished fill and building
floor elevations, floodproofing or other flood protection measures were
designed and constructed in compliance with the provisions of this title.
   C.   State And Federal Permits: Prior to granting a building permit,
floodplain development permit, conditional use permit or variance it shall be
determined that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits, if required.
   D.   Permits Required: Permits, when required, shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof in the
floodway and flood fringe overlay districts; prior to the use or change of use
of a building, structure or land; prior to the construction of a dam, fence, or
on site septic system; prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use;
prior to the repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source; and prior to the placement of fill or excavation
of materials within the floodway and/or flood fringe overlay districts.
   E.   Record Of First Floor Elevation: The city shall maintain a record of
the elevation of the first floor and basement floor (if applicable) of all new
structures or alterations or additions to existing structures in the floodway
and flood fringe district. The city shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures, alterations, or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
   F.   Notifications For Watercourse Alterations: The zoning administrator, or
designee, shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
commissioner of the department of natural resources prior to the community
authorizing any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has
applied for a permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota
statutes, chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the
commissioner of natural resources. A copy of said notification shall also be
submitted to the Chicago regional office of the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA).
   G.   Notification To FEMA When Physical Changes Increase Or Decrease The
100-Year Flood Elevation: As soon as is practicable, but not later than six (6)
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the zoning
administrator, or designee, shall notify the Chicago regional office of FEMA of
the changes by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data. (Ord.
2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-7-2: VARIANCES, BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS ACTION:
   A.   Procedures: All variance requests are subject to the procedures set
forth in and regulated by chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   Variances: No variance shall have the effect of allowing any district
uses prohibited therein, permit a lesser degree of flood protection than the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit
standards lower than those required by state law.
   C.   Hearings: For properties within the floodway or flood fringe overlay
district, the board shall submit to the commissioner of natural resources a
copy of the application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that
the commissioner will receive at least ten (10) days' notice of the hearing.
   D.   Decisions: A copy of all decisions granting variances for properties in
the floodway or flood fringe shall be forwarded to the commissioner of natural
resources within ten (10) days of such action.
   E.   Additional Criteria: The following additional variance criteria of the
federal emergency management agency must be satisfied:
      1.   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase by more than 0.00 feet in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon: a) a showing of
good and sufficient cause, b) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship and practical difficulties to the
applicant, and c) a determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights by more than 0.00 feet, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
   F.   Flood Insurance Notice And Recordkeeping: The zoning administrator, or
designee, shall notify the applicant for a variance that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and
      2.   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property. Such notification shall be maintained
with a record of all variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report
such variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
administrator of the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-7-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS; PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Permit Requests: All conditional use permit requests are subject to the
procedures set forth in and regulated by chapter 4 and section
10-18-2 of this title.
   B.   Application Requirements: Upon receiving an application for a
conditional use permit in the floodway or flood fringe district, the planning
commission, in formulating its recommendation to the council, may prior to
rendering its recommendation thereon:
      1.   Require the applicant to furnish the following information if deemed
necessary by the planning commission to determine the suitability of the
particular site for the proposed use:
         a.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, floodproofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the channel.
         b.   A typical valley cross section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross sectional
areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water information.
         c.   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the ground,
pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location and spatial
arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site; location and
elevations of streets, water supply, sanitary facilities; photographs showing
existing land uses and vegetation upstream and downstream; and soil types.
         d.   Profile showing the slope of the water surface of the stream.
         e.   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         f.   Additional information as requested.
      2.   Transmit one copy of the information described in subsection B1 of
this section to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency selected
by the planning commission for technical assistance, where necessary, to
evaluate the proposed project in relation to flood heights and velocities,
potential flood damage to the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and
other technical matters. The fees of such expert shall be paid by the
applicant.
      3.   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the planning commission shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
   C.   Hearings: For properties within the floodway or flood fringe overlay
district, the planning commission shall submit to the commissioner of natural
resources a copy of the application for proposed conditional use permits
sufficiently in advance so that the commissioner will receive at least ten (10)
days' notice of the hearing.
   D.   Decisions: A copy of all decisions granting conditional use permits for
properties in the floodway and flood fringe shall be forwarded to the
commissioner of natural resources within ten (10) days of such action.
   E.   Factors Upon Which Decisions To Issue Conditional Use Permit Shall Be
Based: In passing upon conditional use permits, the following shall be
considered in addition to other applicable factors that may be required to be
considered elsewhere in this title (including chapter 4 of this title):
      1.   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or that may block bridges, culverts, or
other hydraulic structures.
      3.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
      4.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      5.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      6.   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
      7.   The availability of the alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed uses.
      8.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      9.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program of the area.
      10.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      11.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
      12.   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
title.
   F.   Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purposes of this title, the following
conditions may be attached to the granting of conditional use permits or
variances within the floodway or flood fringe overlay districts to fulfill the
purposes of this title. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
      1.   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      2.   Limitations on period of use and operation.
      3.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restructures.
      4.   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, compensatory
storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures.
      5.   The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing measures
are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and associated
flood factors for the particular area as well as floodproofing measures, in
accordance with the Minnesota state building code and this title. (Ord. 2012-1,
2-27-2012)
10-17B-7-4: AMENDMENTS:
The floodplain designation on zoning maps shall not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to an elevation at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to other lands lying outside the floodplain
district. Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the commissioner
of natural resources if it is determined that, through other measures, lands
are protected adequately for the intended uses. All amendments, including
amendments to the floodway or flood fringe districts on the official zoning
map, must be submitted to and approved by the commissioner of natural resources
prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the federal
emergency management agency's (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must
receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The commissioner of natural
resources must be given ten (10) days' written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this article, flood related definitions in section
10-2-2 of this title, and any floodway or flood fringe related sections of this
title and said notice shall include a draft of the amendment or technical study
under consideration. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
10-17B-8: PROPERTIES WITH AN APPROVED LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL
(LOMR-F):
The city zoning administrator, or designee, shall maintain a master list of
letters of map revision - based on fill (LOMR-F) approved by the federal
emergency management agency. That master list, consisting only of approved
LOMR-Fs, is hereby adopted by this article. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
ARTICLE C. WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS OVERLAY (WECS)
SECTION:
10-17C-1: Purpose
10-17C-2: Application
10-17C-3: Site Plan Drawing
10-17C-4: Compliance With State Building Code
10-17C-5: Compliance With National Electrical Code
10-17C-6: Manufacturer Warranty
10-17C-7: Design Standards
10-17C-8: Ornamental Wind Devices
10-17C-9: Building Permit Required
10-17C-10: Inspection
10-17C-11: Abandonment
10-17C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish standards and procedures by which
the installation and operation of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) shall
be governed within the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-2: APPLICATION:
Wind energy conversion systems may be allowed as a conditional use within any
nonresidential district of the city, subject to the regulations and
requirements of this article. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-3: SITE PLAN DRAWING:
All applications for a WECS conditional use permit shall be accompanied by a
detailed site plan drawn to scale and dimension, displaying the following
information:
   A.   Lot lines and dimensions.
   B.   Location and height of all buildings, structures, aboveground utilities
and trees on the lot, including both existing and proposed structures and guy
wire anchors.
   C.   Locations and height of all adjacent buildings, structures, aboveground
utilities and trees located within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the
exterior boundaries of the property in question.
   D.   Existing and proposed setbacks of all structures located on the
property in question.
   E.   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed WECS
and its relationship to structures on adjacent lots. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-4: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BUILDING CODE:
Standard drawings of the structural components of the wind energy conversion
system and support structures, including base and footings shall be provided
along with the engineering data and calculations to demonstrate compliance with
the structural design provisions of the state building code especially with
regards to wind and icing loads. Drawings and engineering calculations shall be
certified by a registered engineer. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-5: COMPLIANCE WITH NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
WECS electrical equipment and connections shall be designed and installed in
adherence to the national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-6: MANUFACTURER WARRANTY:
The applicant shall provide documentation or other evidence from the dealer or
manufacturer that the WECS has been successfully operated in atmospheric
conditions similar to the conditions within the city. The WECS shall be
warranted against any system failures reasonably expected in severe weather
operation conditions. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-7: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Height: The permitted maximum height of a WECS shall be determined in
one of two (2) ways. In determining the height of the WECS, the total height of
the system shall be included. System height shall be measured from the base of
the tower to the highest possible extension of the rotor.
      1.   A ratio of one foot (1') to one foot (1') between the distance of
the closest property line to the base of WECS to the height of the system.
      2.   A maximum system height of fifty feet (50').
The shortest height of the two (2) above mentioned methods shall be used in
determining the maximum allowable height of a WECS system. The height of a WECS
must also comply with FAA regulation part 77 "Objects Affecting Navigable Air
Space" and/or MnDot rule 14, MCAR 1.3015 "Criteria For Determining Obstruction
To Air Navigation".
   B.   Setbacks: No part of a WECS (including guy wire anchors) shall be
located within or above any required front, side or rear yard setback and in no
event shall any part of the system be within ten feet (10') of any property
line. WECS towers shall be set back from the closest property line one foot
(1') for every one foot (1') of system height. WECS shall not be located within
thirty feet (30') of an aboveground utility line.
   C.   Rotor Size: All WECS rotors shall not have rotor dimensions greater
than twenty six feet (26').
   D.   Rotor Clearance: Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a minimum of
thirty feet (30') of clearance over any structure or tree within a two hundred
foot (200') radius.
   E.   Rotor Design: The blade design and materials are to be designed and
constructed to ensure safe operation in an urban area.
   F.   Rotor Safety: Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and
automatic braking device capable of stopping WECS operation in high wind (40
mph or greater) or in conditions of imbalance.
   G.   Lightning Protection: Each WECS shall be grounded to protect against
natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national electrical code as
adopted by the city.
   H.   Component Compatibility: The wind turbine and wind turbine tower are to
be designed and constructed to be compatible.
   I.   Tower Access: To prevent unauthorized climbing, WECS towers must comply
with one of the following provisions:
      1.   Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within twelve feet
(12') of the ground.
      2.   A locked anticlimb device shall be installed on the tower.
      3.   Tower capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet (6') high.
   J.   Signs: WECS shall have one sign, not to exceed two (2) square feet at
the base of the tower and said sign shall contain the following information:
      1.   Warning high voltage.
      2.   Manufacturer's name.
      3.   Emergency phone number.
      4.   Emergency shutdown procedures.
   K.   Lighting: WECS shall not have affixed or attached any lights,
reflectors, flashers or any other illumination, except for illumination devices
required by FAA regulations part 77 "Objects Affecting Navigable Air Space" and
FAA advisory circular 70/7460-1F, September 1978, "Obstruction Marking And
Lighting".
   L.   Electromagnetic Interference: WECS shall be designed and constructed so
as not to cause radio and television interference.
   M.   Noise Emissions: Noises emanating from the operation of WECS shall be
in compliance with and regulated by the state pollution control standards,
Minnesota regulations NPC 1 and 2, as amended.
   N.   Utility Company Interconnection: No WECS shall be interconnected with
the local electrical utility company until the utility company and the Moorhead
public service commission has reviewed and commented upon it. The
interconnection of the WECS with the utility company shall adhere to the
national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-8: ORNAMENTAL WIND DEVICES:
Ornamental wind devices that are not a WECS shall be exempt from the provisions
of this article and shall conform to other applicable provisions of this title
and this code. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-9: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
A building permit shall be required for the installation of a WECS in the city.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-17C-10: INSPECTION:
The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any WECS conditional use permit
to inspect the premises on which the WECS is located. If a WECS is not
maintained in operational condition and poses a potential safety hazard, the
owner shall take expeditious action to correct the situation. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-
3-2005)
10-17C-11: ABANDONMENT:
Any WECS or tower which is not used for six (6) successive months shall be
deemed abandoned and shall be dismantled and removed from the property at the
expense of the property owner. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
ARTICLE D. WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERLAY (WT)
SECTION:
10-17D-1: Purpose
10-17D-2: Definitions
10-17D-3: Proof Of Need
10-17D-4: Towers And Antennas In Zoning Districts
10-17D-5: Tower Construction And Design Requirements
10-17D-6: Nonconforming Towers
10-17D-7: Abandoned Or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers
10-17D-8: Interference With Public Safety Telecommunications
10-17D-1: PURPOSE:
In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses
while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, these regulations are necessary to facilitate provisions of wireless
telecommunications services to the residents and businesses of the city,
minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and siting
standards, avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from structural
failure through structural standards and setback requirements, and maximize the
use of existing and approved structures and buildings to accommodate new
wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the number of towers
needed to serve the community. (Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting lines, cables,
wires, braces, and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an
antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
TOWER ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT: Wires, cables, generators, air conditioning units,
and other structures located at the base of a tower housing radio receiving/
transmitting equipment and other associated electronic equipment necessary for
a communications facility.
TOWER HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average grade at the base of a
tower to the highest point of a tower or to the highest point of the highest
wireless communications facilities on a tower, whichever is higher. When towers
are mounted upon other structures, the combined height of the structure and
tower must meet the height restrictions set forth in this article. (Ord. 2016-
11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-3: PROOF OF NEED:
All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city must comply with the following requirements:
   A.   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunications tower must
not be approved unless the applicant proves that the telecommunications
equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing
or approved tower, building or other structure within a reasonable search
radius of the proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified
professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced
or modified to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable
cost.
      2.   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified professional engineer and the interference cannot
be prevented at a reasonable cost.
      3.   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified professional engineer.
      4.   Other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   B.   Any proposed commercial telecommunications tower must be designed,
structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate both the
applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least one additional user.
For all ground mounted commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
letter of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successor to allow
the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
   C.   Where due to the complexity of the methodology or analysis required to
review an application for a commercial telecommunications tower, the city may
require a technical review by a third party expert. The costs of this review
shall be borne by the applicant and shall be in addition to any applicable
conditional use permit or building permit fees. The applicant shall submit an
escrow deposit that may be applied toward the cost of such technical review
upon notification from the city that a technical review is required and shall
remit any outstanding balance to the city prior to issuance of a building
permit. The technical review may address any or all of the following:
      1.   The accuracy and completeness of submissions;
      2.   The applicability of analysis techniques and methodologies;
      3.   The validity of conclusions reached;
      4.   Whether the proposed wireless communications facility complies with
the applicable criteria set forth in these regulations;
      5.   Other matters deemed by the city to be relevant to determining
whether a proposed wireless communications facility complies with the
provisions of these regulations. (Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-4: TOWERS AND ANTENNAS IN ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Towers in residentially zoned districts shall conform to the following
provisions:
      1.   Any new ground, roof or building mounted towers and antennas which
comply with provisions within this code, are allowed as follows:
 
P = Permitted use CU = Conditional use Blank = Prohibited
 
 
Use Type                            Residential Districts
                                    RLD-0 RLD-1 RLD-2 RLD-3 RMD-1 RMD-2 RHD-1
Ground mounted tower structure      P     P     P     P     P     P     P
Ground mounted tower maximum height 15'   15'   15'   15'   15'   15'   15'
Roof and building mounted antennas  P     P     P     P     P     P     P
Roof and building mounted antennas  10'   10'   10'   10'   10'   10'   10'
maximum height
 
      2.   Ground mounted towers shall be limited to noncommercial towers and
antennas, are allowed only in the rear yard of residentially zoned property and
shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from all property lines.
      3.   Private wireless telecommunications antennas, such as satellite
dishes and other similar antennas, are permitted in all residential districts
to a maximum height of fifteen feet (15') and may not be located in a required
front or side yard setback; except for private wireless telecommunications
antennas less than thirty inches (30") in diameter which may be located within
a required front or side yard setback if mounted upon a residential structure.
   B.   Towers in nonresidentially zoned districts shall conform to the
following provisions:
      1.   Allowed: Any new ground, roof or building mounted tower and antennas
which comply with provisions within this code, are allowed as follows:
 
P = Permitted use CU = Conditional use Blank = Prohibited
 
Use Type Mixed Use Districts Commercial Districts Industrial Special Use
                                                  Districts  Districts
         MU-1 MU-2 MU-3      NC CC RC             LI HI      INS PUBLIC
Use Type      Mixed Use Districts            Commercial Districts      Industrial Districts  Special Use Districts
              MU-1      MU-2      MU-3       NC  CC         RC         LI         HI         INS        PUBLIC
Ground
mounted tower                   CU            CU         CU         P          P          P          P
structure
Ground
mounted tower                   150'          150'       150'       No maximum No maximum 150'       No maximum
maximum                                                                height     height                height
height
                                  50' from       50' from   50' from
                                  all public     all public all public
Ground                            street         street     street     Underlying Underlying Underlying Underlying
mounted tower                     right of       right of   right of   zoning     zoning     zoning     zoning
minimum                         way and       way and    way and    district   district   district   district
setback from                      underlying     underlying underlying setbacks   setbacks   setbacks   setbacks
property line                     zoning         zoning     zoning
                                  district       district   district
                                  setbacks       setbacks   setbacks
Ground
mounted tower
minimum
setback from                    300'          300'       300'       300'       300'       300'       300'
all
residentially
zoned
districts 1
Roof and
building
mounted       P         P         P          P   P          P          P          P          P          P
towers and
antennas
Roof mounted
towers and
antennas      None      15'       15'        15' 25'        25'        None       None       25'        None
maximum
height
              Maximum   Maximum   Maximum        Maximum    Maximum                          Maximum
              10'       10'       10'            10'        10'                              10'
Building      extension extension extension      extension  extension                        extension
mounted       from side from side from side     from side  from side  None       None       from side  None
antenna       of        of        of             of         of                               of
extension     building  building  building       building   building                         building
              affixed   affixed   affixed to     affixed to affixed to                       affixed to
              to        to
 
Note:
    1.    RLD-0, RLD-1, RLD-2, RLD-3, RMD-1, RMD-2, RHD-1.
      2.   Exceptions: Antennas which comply with provisions within this code
and are placed or otherwise attached to any existing tower facility, or any
existing or replacement public utility structure or any existing or replacement
light pole less than 50 feet in height are permitted in all zoning districts.
and are not subject to the setbacks listed in this Section 10-17D-4 or the
requirements of Section
10-17D-3.
      3.   Lease Or City Approval: With the exception of the necessary utility
services and connection lines approved by the city, no part of any antenna or
tower nor any lines, cable, equipment, or wires or braces in connection with
either may at any time extend across or over any part of the public right of
way, public street, highway, sidewalk, or property line without a lease or
other approval by the city.
      4.   Setback: A tower's setback may be reduced or its location in
relation to a public street adjusted, at the sole discretion of the city
council, if the applicant provides evidence that a setback reduction is
necessary to successfully engage in telecommunication services. (Ord. 2016-11,
6-27-2016; amd. Ord. 2022-19, 8-8-2022)
10-17D-5: TOWER CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All towers and antennas erected, constructed, or located within the
city, and all wiring therefor, must comply with the Minnesota state building
code. Unless otherwise approved by the building officials, requests for new or
modified towers and antennas must be accompanied by plans prepared by a
qualified Minnesota professional engineer and include the following:
      1.   The tower or building construction and/or suitability to accept
additional antennas and the proposed method for affixing the antenna to the
structure.
      2.   Complete details of all fixtures and couplings, and the precise
point of attachment.
      3.   Descriptions of the tower height and design including a cross
section and elevation.
      4.   Documentation of the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas.
      5.   Descriptions of the tower's capacity, including the number and type
of antennas that can be accommodated.
      6.   Documentation regarding what steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications.
      7.   Other information necessary to evaluate the request or as required
within the code.
      8.   Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations administered
by the federal communications commission, federal aviation administration and
other applicable governing agencies.
      9.   A report from a qualified professional engineer which demonstrates
the tower's compliance with the aforementioned structural and electrical
standards.
   B.   Commercial wireless telecommunication towers must be a monopole design
unless the city council determines that an alternative design is necessary to
successfully engage in commercial telecommunication services.
   C.   Towers must not be illuminated by artificial means and not display
strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the federal
aviation administration or other federal or state authority for a particular
tower. When incorporated into the approved design of the tower, light fixtures
used to illuminate public recreational areas, parking lots, or similar areas
may be attached to the tower.
   D.   The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than warning or
equipment information signs is prohibited. (Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-6: NONCONFORMING TOWERS:
   A.   If a legal, nonconforming tower is destroyed by fire or other peril, it
may be restored to its former extent if it is reconstructed within twelve (12)
months of the date of said damage.
   B.   Normal tower and antenna replacement and repair to a lawful,
nonconforming tower is permitted, including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not physically extend, increase, or intensity
the nonconforming tower and which comply with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-7: ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS:
All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities must be removed within
twelve (12) months of the cessation of operations at the site, unless a time
extension is approved by the city council. In the event that a tower is not
removed within twelve (12) months of the cessation of operations at a site, the
tower and associated facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of
removal assessed against the property. (Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
10-17D-8: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
No new or existing telecommunications facilities or services may interfere with
public safety telecommunications. Before the introduction of new service,
changes in frequencies, or maximum signal output, telecommunication providers
must notify the city at least fifteen (15) calendar days in advance of such
changes and allow the city to monitor interference levels during the testing
process. (Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016)
ARTICLE E. GO GATEWAY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-17E-1: Purpose
10-17E-2: Applicability
10-17E-3: Permitted Uses
10-17E-4: Accessory Uses
10-17E-5: Provisional Uses
10-17E-6: Conditional Uses
10-17E-7: Prohibited Uses
10-17E-8: Site Requirements
10-17E-9: Building Design And Construction
10-17E-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the GO district is to provide a higher standard of appearance
for corridors that serve as the main entrances to the community. The GO
district includes properties within three hundred feet (300') of I-94 and its
ramps, Highway 10 east of 21st Street, 8th Street south of 24th Avenue South,
Highway 75 north of Highway 10, Main Avenue SE from 5th Avenue to Interstate
94, 34th Street and frontage roads abutting those gateways. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-
24-2025)
10-17E-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Development plans for property in the GO district shall include
building elevations. Context and compatibility with neighboring buildings shall
be considered in the plan review.
   B.   New buildings and additions to existing buildings that increase the
floor areas by more than one thousand (1,000) square feet or ten percent (10%),
whichever is greater, within the gateway overlay district shall meet the
requirements established herein except for those portions of the building which
are not visible from a gateway or are separated from a gateway by another
building.
   C.   For additions to existing buildings, consideration will be given to
existing building materials and site layout and exemptions from the
requirements noted herein may be granted by the zoning administrator if the
proposed addition is consistent with the existing structure and site layout.
The city reserves the right to reject projects that do not meet the intent of
this article. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-3: PERMITTED USES:
Permitted uses are limited to those in the underlying zoning district. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-4: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses are limited to those in the underlying zoning district. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-5: PROVISIONAL USES:
Provisional uses are limited to those in the underlying zoning district and are
permitted as long as they meet the requirements of chapter 6 and
10-18-2 . (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses are limited to those in the underlying zoning district and are
permitted as long as they meet the requirements of chapter 4 and
10-18-2  and any additional conditions set by the city council. (Ord. 2025-02,
3-24-2025)
10-17E-7: PROHIBITED USES:
The following are prohibited uses in the GO district:
   Adult use.
   Cannabis or hemp cultivation.
   Outdoor storage (does not include sales displays).
   Also see use table in
10-18-1 . Any use not specifically identified in the use table in
10-18-1  as permitted (P), provisional (PU) or conditional (CU) or that are not
deemed consistent with the intent of the comprehensive plan or the purpose of
this title, are not permitted, as determined by the zoning administrator. (Ord.
2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-8: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the GO district subject
to additional requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this
title; the more restrictive shall apply:
   A.   Requirements specified in the underlying zoning district shall apply
to:
      1.   Lot Area
      2.   Lot Width
      3.   Setbacks
      4.   Maximum Building Height
      5.   Parking and Loading Spaces
      6.   Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
      7.   Lighting
      8.   Noise
      9.   Pedestrian Access and Connectivity
      10.   Refuse and Recycling Storage
   B.   Landscaping, Screening and Buffering: In addition to requirements of
chapter 19, sites in the GO district are subject to the following:
      1.   Minimum plant units: Four (4) per one thousand (1,000) square feet
of lot area or fraction thereof.
      2.   Plantings used to fulfill the requirements of this section shall be
grouped for visual impact from the gateways, located to accentuate buildings
and planted to maximize environmental benefits. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-17E-9: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION:
Buildings and sites in the GO district shall address the following:
   A.   Building Siting and Architectural Design: Buildings in the GO district
shall meet the following standards, except for those portions of the building
which are not visible from a gateway, are separated from a gateway by another
building or unless specifically exempted:
      1.   Buildings shall be attractive and constructed of materials that will
maintain their appearance over the long term.
      2.   Main entrances are encouraged to be emphasized by distance recessed
or projected, by accent materials, change of grade or by pedestrian scale
lighting and other pedestrian amenities.
      3.   All exterior walls clearly visible from a street shall be of
consistent quality and characteristics.
      4.   Exterior building walls over sixty feet (60') in height or width
shall be divided visually into smaller sections and/or add architectural
features to break up the mass:
         a.   Vertical and horizontal architectural features may include, but
are not limited to:
            (1)   Roof line and/or roof overhang variations, projections or
recesses, windows, public art, building massing setbacks, changes in color,
material, or texture, awnings, canopies, balconies, porticoes and moldings.
      5.   Architectural materials and elements shall be combined with
landscaping to add interest to buildings, and especially to break up long
expanses.
      6.   Materials:
         a.   Exterior walls of industrial buildings shall be comprised of at
least thirty percent (30%) quality materials other than steel, vinyl and
fiberglass.
         b.   Exterior walls of commercial and multi-family residential
buildings shall be comprised of at least fifty percent (50%) quality materials
other than steel, vinyl and fiberglass, except that percentage may be reduced
to thirty percent (30%) if the building incorporates a minimum of six (6)
elements from the elements list below or other architectural elements are
incorporated in the building.
      7.   Elements: Exterior building walls shall incorporate a combination of
no fewer than three (3) architectural elements comparable to those listed
below. Architectural elements contributing to this requirement shall have
sufficient visual impact to be noticeable from the gateway or other adjacent
street, as determined by the zoning administrator, and may include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Accent materials that vary the color, type and/or texture of the
walls,
         b.   Public art,
         c.   Architectural details, such as tile work and moldings, integrated
into the building facade,
         d.   Windows,
         e.   Recesses/projections offset a minimum of sixteen inches (16"),
         f.   Roof overhang, which should vary according to building width, as
follows: one foot (1') overhang for buildings less than fifty feet (50') in
width, two foot (2') overhang for buildings fifty (50) to one hundred feet
(100') in width, and three foot (3') overhang for buildings greater than one
hundred feet (100') in width,
         g.   Varied rooflines, including gables, dormers, cupolas, changes in
heights, and/or styles,
         h.   Trim including frieze boards (located on wall below eaves) of not
less than five inches (5") width, articulated cornice line, window and door
trim and corner boards of not less than three inches (3") in width,
         i.   Canopies/awnings/porticoes
         j.   Arcades,
         k.   Planters and wing walls integrated with the building
         l.   Outdoor patios,
         m.   Pedestrian plaza with benches and planters,
         n.   Window shopping walkway and/or display windows,
         o.   Outdoor playground
         p.   Water feature.
      8.   Ground-mounted and rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to
not be visible from public streets or sidewalks.
      9.   Overhead doors and loading docks:
         a.   Shall not face gateways, public streets or frontage roads unless
screened from view;
         b.   Shall not face required front yards; and
         c.   Shall meet the requirements of chapter 21.
   10.   The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make exceptions
to this section if the design and construction meet the intent of the GO
district. (Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
ARTICLE F. AERONAUTICAL ZONING OVERLAY
SECTION:
10-17F-1: Purpose
10-17F-2: Establishment Of Aeronautical Zoning Overlay
10-17F-1: PURPOSE:
This article is established to comply withe the rules and regulations outlined
within State of Minnesota statutes and adopted by the Moorhead Municipal
Airport Florence Klingensmith Field Joint Airport Zoning Board. (Ord. 2024-06,
7-22-2024)
10-17F-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF AERONAUTICAL ZONING OVERLAY:
   A.   The aeronautical zoning overlay is hereby adopted within this overlay
district.
   B.   The aeronautical zoning overlay shall be defined, described and
enforced within recorded document 846561, related zoning maps, and any recorded
amendments hereto. (Ord. 2024-06, 7-22-2024)
CHAPTER 18
USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Use Tables And Unlisted Uses
10-18-2: Provisional And Conditional Use Requirements
10-18-3: Accessory Buildings, Structures, Equipment And Uses
10-18-4: Nonconforming Lots, Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-18-1: USE TABLES AND UNLISTED USES:
The following table specifies permitted, provisional and conditional land uses
in the city of Moorhead:
 
P = Permitted Use           PU = Provisional Use
CU = Conditional Use Permit Blank = Prohibited
( ) = Letters in round brackets refer to the corresponding subsection of
section
10-18-2 of this chapter.
Use                  Residential           Mixed Use &               Industrial
Category  Use Type   Districts             Commercial Districts   Districts
(General) (Detailed) RLD RLD RLD RM D RH D MU - MU -2 MU -3 MU -4 CC LI HI
                     -1  -2  -3            1
                               Residential              Mixed Use &                Industrial
Use Category   Use Type        Districts                Commercial Districts    Districts
(General)      (Detailed)      RLD  RLD  RLD  RM D RH D MU - MU - MU - MU - CC     LI   HI
                               -1   -2   -3             1    2    3    4
Adult          All types                                                           P1   P1
establishments
Agricultural   Farm                                                                CU   CU
related        cooperatives
              Farm supply                                        P    P    P      P
               store
              Feed mixing                                                         CU   CU
              Fertilizer                                                               CU
               manufacturing
               Grain elevator
              or produce                                                          CU   CU
               collection/
               distribution
              Implement                                          PU   PU   PU (P) P    P
               dealer/services                                    (P)  (P)
               Manufacturing/
              process ing                                                         CU   CU
               general
Animal         Animal shelter                                     PU   PU   PU (Q) P    P
services                                                          (Q)  (Q)
              Groomer (no                              P         P    P    P      P
               kennel)
              Groomer/kennel/                                    PU   PU   PU (Q) P    P
               daycare                                            (Q)  (Q)
              Pet store (live                          PU        PU   P    PU (Q) P
               animals)                                 (Q)       (Q)
               Veterinary                               PU        PU
              clinic or                                (Q)       (Q)  P    PU (Q) P
               hospital
               Auto/truck/
               recreational
Auto/          vehicles/boats/
transportation trailers/                                          CU   CU   CU (R) CU   CU
related        motorcycles                                        (R)  (R)         (R)  (R)
               sales, rental,
               service and
               repair
               Automotive
               service station                                    CU   CU          CU   CU
              (gasoline/                                         (R)  (R)  CU (R) (R)  (R)
               repair/service
               facility)
              Car wash and                                       PU   PU   PU (R) P    P
               auto detailing                                     (R)  (R)
              Impound lot                                                         CU   CU
                                                                                   (Y)  (Y)
               Parking lot (as CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   PU   CU   PU   PU
              a principal     (I)  (I)  (I)  (I)  (I)  (S)  (I,  (S & (S)  PU (S) P    P
               use)                                          S)   I)
              Parking                                  CU        CU   P    P      P    P
               structure                                (M)       (M)
              Salvage yard                                                             CU
               Tire shredding/
              recapping or                                                        CU   CU
               retreading
               Transportation/
              freight/                                                            P    P
               cartage
               terminals
              Truck stops/                                                        P    P
               truck parking
               Cannabis or
Cannabis and   tobacco
hemp related   paraphernalia                            P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               or tobacco/vape
               shop
               Home/personal
              cultivation of  P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
               hemp or
               cannabis flower
               Home/personal
               extraction or
              sale of hemp or
               cannabis flower
               and products
               State-licensed
               lower-potency
               hemp edible
               retailer - only
               and the
               following
              cannabis-                                P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               related uses:
               delivery
               service, event
               organizer
               business and
               retailer-only
               State-licensed
              medical                                  P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               cannabis
               retailer-only
               State-licensed
               medical                                  PU   PU   PU   PU   PU
              cannabis                                 (FF) (FF) (FF) (FF) (FF)   P    P
               combination
               business
               State-licensed
               medical
              cannabis                                                            P    P
               cultivator or
               processor
               State-licensed
               lower potency
               hemp edible,
               cannabis edible
               or medical
              cannabis edible                          P         P    P    P      P    P
               production
               (breweries and
               small-batch
               baking/cooking
               with associated
               packing only)
               State-licensed
               lower-potency
               hemp
               concentrate
               manufacturing
               and the
               following
              cannabis-                                                           P    P
               related uses:
               cultivator,
               manufacturer,
               testing
               facility,
               transporter and
               wholesaler
               State-licensed                           PU   PU   PU   PU   PU (GG PU   PU
              cannabis                                 (GG) (GG) (GG) (GG) )      (GG  (GG )
               microbusiness                                                       )
               State-licensed                           PU   PU   PU   PU   PU (HH PU   PU
              cannabis                                 (HH) (HH) (HH) (HH) )      (HH  (HH )
               mezzobusiness                                                       )
               State-licensed  PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU          PU
Dependent care assisted living (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  (D)  PU (D) (D)
               facilities
               State certified                               PU
              or licensed                              PU   (E&  PU        PU (E) PU
               childcare                                (E)  H)   (E)              (E)
               center
               State licensed  PU   PU   PU   PU   PU        PU
              family          (F&H (F&H (F&H (F&  (F&       (F&H
               childcare (home )    )    )    H)   H)        )
               based)
               Dwelling,
Dwellings      multi-family -            P    P    P    P    P    P
               apartments
               Dwelling,
               multi-family -
              townhouse/           P    P    P    P    P    P    P
               rowhouse or
               triplex
              Dwelling,       P    P    P    P              P
               single-family
               Dwelling, two-
              family twin          P    P    P              P    P
               home or duplex
               Dwelling,
              temporary
               family
               healthcare
              Dwelling unit,
               accessory
              Dwelling/home   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU   PU
               occupations     (H)  (H)  (H)  (H)  (H)  (H)  (H)  (H)
               Dwellings,
              manufactured                   CU   CU
               home park
               Gas/fuel/
Gas/fuel/      chemical bulk                                                            CU
chemicals      storage plants/
               distribution
               Gas/fuel/
              chemical                                                                 CU
               manufacturing
               Oil filtering/                                                      CU   CU
              mixing                                                              (CC  (CC )
                                                                                   )
               Other injurious
               hazardous or
              offensive                                                                CU
               chemical use
               not listed
Lodging/       Bed and         CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU
temporary      breakfast       (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  (A)  CU (A)
overnight stay
              Campgrounds
               Hotel (with or
              without                                  P         P    P    P
               conference
               center)
               Housing
              shelters/                                CU        CU   CU   CU (O)
               temporary                                (O)       (O)  (O)
               housing
Manufacturing/ Advertising
production/    products                                                     CU     P    P
assembl y/     (signs/
processing     billboards)
               Asphalt and
               concrete
              batching or                                                              CU
               ready-mix
               plants
              Bottling                                           P    P    P      P    P
              Concrete or                                                         P    P
               cement products
              Dairy products                                                      P    P
               Equipment                                          PU   PU
              repair (non-                                       (R)  (R)  PU (R) P    P
               auto)
              Packing and                                        P    P    P      P    P
               crating
               Slaughterhouse
              (not                                                                     CU
               stockyards)
              Wholesale                                          P    P    P      P    P
               Wood shops/
               cabinetry/
              carpentry                                          PU   PU   PU (X) P    P
               products (with                                     (X)  (X)
               limited
               manufacturing)
               Wood shops/
               cabinetry/
              carpentry                                                           P    P
               products (with
               manufacturing)
               Barber/hair
Personal       salon/massage/                           PU   PU   PU   PU          PU
services       nail salon/                              (C)  (C)  (C)  (C)  PU (C) (C)
               spa/tattoo/body
               piercing
               Mortuary/
              funeral                                                             P    P
               services
               (cremation)
               Mortuary/
              funeral                                  P    P    P    P    P      P
               services (no
               cremation)
Public/        Campus               CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU (B)
institutional  organizations        (B)  (B)  (B)  (B)  (B)  (B)  (B)  (B)
               Community
              theater/arts                             P    P    P    P    P
               center/museums
               Government
               offices or
              other non-                               P         P    P    P      P
               public works
               facilities
              Hospital/                                P         P    P    P      P
               ambulance
              Library                                  P    P    P    P    P
               Parks/
              playgrounds/op  P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
               en space
               Public and
              semipublic      P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
               recreation uses
               Public
               regulated
              utility         P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               structures
               (non-
               substation)
               Public
               regulated
              utility                                                             P    P
               structures
               (substation)
              Public works                                                        P    P
               facilities
               Religious
               institutions/   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU          CU
              group assembly/ (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  CU (L) (L)
               membership
               organizations
               Religious
               institution     CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU     CU
              micro-dwelling  (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE) (EE)   (EE)
               unit sacred
               community
               Schools,
               primary,
              secondary,      CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU   CU (L)
               collegiate      (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)  (L)
               (public or
               private)
              Transit center                           P         P    P    P      P    P
               Amphitheater/
               amuse ment
               park/putt putt
               golf/ax
Recreation/    throwing/                                          PU   PU          PU   PU
entertainment  batting cages/                                     (T)  (T)  PU (T) (T)  (T)
               driving ranges/
               cornhole/
               pickleball/
               paintball /
               skate park
               Bars, taverns,
               nightclub,
               brewery,                                 PU        PU   PU
              distillery with                          (U)       (U)  (U)  PU (U)
               or without live
               music/DJ or
               patio
               Bar/restaurant
               or cocktail/                             PU        PU   PU
              wine bar with                            (U)       (U)  (U)  PU (U)
               live music/DJ
               or patio
               Bar/restaurant
               or cocktail/
              wine bar                                 P    P    P    P    P
               without live
               music/DJ or
               patio
              Bowling or                               P         P    P    P
               movie theater
               Cafes/coffee
              houses (without                          P    P    P    P    P
               live
               performance)
               Cafes/coffee
              houses (with                             PU        PU   PU   PU (U)
               live                                     (U)       (U)  (U)
               performance)
               Community
               center/
              recreation                               P    P    P    P    P      P
               center/physical
               fitness center
               Radio and
              television                               PU        PU   PU   PU (Z) P    P<
               offices/                                 (Z)       (Z)  (Z)
               stations
               Recording
              studios for                              PU        PU   PU   PU (Z) P    P
               audio, video,                            (Z)       (Z)  (Z)
               film
              Restaurants (no                          P    P    P    P    P      P
               drive-through)
               Restaurants
              (with drive-                             P         P    P    P      P
               through)
              Shooting range                                          PU          PU   PU
               (indoor)                                                (T)         (T)  (T)
              Shooting range
               (outdoor)
Retail and     Banks (with                              P         P    P    P      P
office         drive-through)
              Banks (without                           P    P    P    P    P      P
               drive-through)
               Baking, candy
               and other food
              products (on                             P    P    P    P    P      P
               site production
               and retail)
              Catering                                 P    P    P    P    P      P
               Contractor
               offices/sales
              rooms/supplies                           PU        PU   PU   PU (V) P    P<
               (no outdoor                              (V)       (V)  (V)
               display or
               storage)
               Contractor
               offices/sales
              rooms/supplies                                          PU          P    P
               (with outdoor                                           (V)
               display and/or
               storage)
               Contractor
               offices/sales/
              rooms/supplies                                     PU   PU   PU     P    P
               (with outdoor
               display only)
              Contractor yard                                                     P    P
               Convenience                                        PU
              grocery stores                                     (R)  P    P      P    P
               (with gas)
               Grocery/
              convenience                              P    P    P    P    P      P
               store (no gas)
               Home
               improvement/
               hardware                                           PU   PU          PU   PU
              retailers with                                     (W)  (W)  PU (W) (W)  (W)
               outdoor sales
               display/
               lumberyards
               Home
               improvement/
               hardware
              retailers                                P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               without outdoor
               sales display/
               lumberyards
              Laundromat                               P    P    P    P    P
              Liquor store                             P    P    P    P    P
              Lumberyards                                             PU   PU (W) PU   PU
                                                                       (W)         (W)  (W)
               Meat market
              including                                               P    P      P    P
               processing
               Meat market not
              including                                P    P    P    P    P      P    P
               processing
              Medical/dental                           P    P    P    P    P      P
               offices/clinics
              Nursery/lawn                             P         P    P    P      P    P
               and garden
              Offices,                                 P    P    P    P    P      P
               professional
              Retail (with                             P         P    P    P      P
               drive-through)
               Textiles,
               spinning,
               weaving,
               dyeing,
              printing, knit                           P    P    P    P    P      P
               goods, yarn,
               thread and
               cordage duty
               with retail
               component
               Textiles,
               spinning,
               weaving,
               dyeing,
              printing, knit                                                      P    P
               goods, yarn,
               thread and
               cordage duty
               without retail
               component
              Thrift store/                            P    P    P    P    P      P
               consignment
               Self-storage
Warehousing/   and/or outdoor                                          CU   CU     P    P
storage        storage                                                 (BB) (BB)
               facilities
               Self-storage
              facilities                                         CU   CU   CU     P    P
               without outdoor                                    (BB) (BB) (BB)
               storage
               Cold-storage,
               warehouse and
              distribution                                                        P    P
               centers for
               nonexplosive
               material
Notes:
   1.   Adult establishments are prohibited in that portion of the district that is within
the Gateway Overlay District.
   2.   Pursuant to the authority granted by Minn. Stat. § 462.3593, subdivision 9, the city
opts out of the requirements of Minn. Stat. § 462.3593.
 
    C.   Unlisted Uses:
      1.   Procedure For Approving Unlisted Uses: Where a particular use
category or use type is not specifically allowed under this title, the use
category or type may be permitted by the zoning administrator or designee upon
a finding that the criteria below are met. The zoning administrator or designee
shall give due consideration to the vision elements of the comprehensive plan
purpose and intent of this title concerning the district(s) involved, the
character of the uses specifically identified, and the character of the use(s)
in question.
      2.   Criteria For Approving Unlisted Uses: The zoning administrator or
designee may allow an unlisted use (permitted, provisional, conditional, or
accessory) in the zoning district if he/she finds that the proposed use has an
impact that is similar in nature, function, and duration to the other uses
allowed in a specific zoning district. In making such finding, the zoning
administrator or designee shall assess all relevant characteristics of the
proposed use, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   The volume and type of sales, retail, wholesale; size and type of
items sold and nature of inventory on the premises;
         b.   Any processing done on the premises, including assembly,
manufacturing, warehousing, shipping, distribution; any dangerous, hazardous,
toxic, or explosive materials used in the processing;
         c.   The nature and location of storage and outdoor display of
merchandise; enclosed, open, inside or outside the principal building; and
predominant types of items stored (such as business vehicles, work in process,
inventory, and merchandise, construction materials, scrap and junk, and raw
materials including liquids and powders hazardous or not);
         d.   The type, size, and nature of buildings and structures;
         e.   The number and density of employees and customers per unit area
of site in relation to business hours and employment shifts;
         f.   Transportation requirements, including the modal split for people
and freight, by volume type and characteristic of traffic generation to and
from the site, trip purposes and whether trip purposes can be shared by other
uses on the site;
         g.   Parking requirements, turnover and generation, ratio of the
number of spaces required per unit area or activity, and the potential for
shared parking with other uses;
         h.   The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the premises,
including, but not limited to, noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration, radiation
and fumes;
         i.   Any special public utility requirements for serving the proposed
use, including, but not limited to, water supply, wastewater, pretreatment of
wastes and emissions required or recommended, and any significant power
structures and communications towers or facilities; and
         j.   The impact on adjacent properties created by the proposed use
will not be greater than that of other uses allowed in the district.
      3.   Effects Of Finding By Zoning Administrator Or Designee:
         a.   Typical Uses Added To Title:
            (1)   The city shall initiate periodic amendments to this title if
the zoning administrator or designee finds that the particular use or class of
use(s) is likely to be common or to recur frequently, or that omission of
specific inclusion and reference to this title is likely to lead to public
uncertainty and confusion.
            (2)   Until final action has been taken on such proposed amendment,
the determination of the zoning administrator or designee shall be binding on
all officers and departments of the city.
         b.   Atypical Uses; Determination Binding: In making a determination
whether to approve an unlisted use, the zoning administrator's or designee's
determination shall thereafter be binding on all officers and departments of
the city, without further action or amendment of this title, if the zoning
administrator or designee finds the particular use or class of use(s) is of an
unusual or transitory nature, or is unlikely to recur frequently.
         c.   Appeals: Appeals of decisions to approve or deny unlisted uses
shall be appealed to the planning commission or zoning board of appeals. (Ord.
2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012; Ord. 2013-09, 6-24-2013; 2014-
01, 1-27-2014; Ord. 2014-15, 8-25-2014; Ord. 2016-11, 6-27-2016; Ord. 2016-17,
10-11-2016; 2016-21, 12-12-2016; Ord. 2017-17, 11-27-2017; Ord. 2018-06, 3-26-
2018; Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2022-21, 11-14-2022; Ord. 2023-09, 11-27-
2023; Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024; Ord. 2024-02, 2-26-2024; Ord. 2024-033, 7-22-
2024; Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025; Ord. 2025-06, 5-27-2025)
10-18-2: PROVISIONAL AND CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS:
The following are approval criteria established for provisional and conditional
uses identified within this chapter. These criteria, and any additional
conditions required by the city council, shall be met in order to be approved
within their respective district.
The criteria listed below are applicable where uses are identified in a
particular district as “provisional use” or “conditional use”. The provisions
also shall be applicable in guiding conditional use permit applications as
defined in chapter 4 of this title.
   A.   Bed and breakfast:
      1.   The facility shall have a license for lodging and food and comply
with building and fire codes.
      2.   The facility shall be owner occupied.
      3.   The principal structure shall have a minimum size of one thousand
five hundred (1,500) gross square feet and shall be located on a lot which
meets the minimum lot size of the district in which it is located.
      4.   All bed and breakfast units shall be established within the
principal structure.
      5.   Not more than the equivalent of one full time person who is not a
resident of the structure shall be employed by the bed and breakfast facility.
      6.   Dining and other facilities shall not be open to the public but
shall be used exclusively by the registered guests and residents.
      7.   No liquor may be sold on the premises.
      8.   Two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for the home
plus one space for each bed and breakfast unit. Parking areas shall be screened
and landscaped pursuant to section
10-19-17  of this title. Shared parking may be utilized in the mixed use
districts.
      9.   Adequate lighting shall be provided between the principal structure
and the parking area for safety purposes. Any additional external lighting is
prohibited.
      10.   All uses shall comply with state and city laws governing bed and
breakfast establishments.
      11.   Stays shall be limited to four (4) consecutive weeks.
   B.   Campus organizations:
      1.   Location: In the RLD-3 and RMD-1 districts, campus organizations
shall be allowed only on properties that are directly across a public street
from the campus of Minnesota State University - Moorhead.
      2.   Approval: Approval of the building official is required to ensure
that the fire protection, ventilation, plumbing and electrical systems, the
structure and square footage of the interior spaces are adequate for the
proposed number of residents.
      3.   Landscaping: Appropriate landscaping shall be installed and
maintained, according to a plan approved by the zoning administrator, to buffer
the parking lot and outdoor activity areas of campus organizations from
adjoining residential uses.
      4.   Usable Open Space: “Usable open space” (as defined in section
10-2-2  of this title) must be equal to a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of
the gross lot area.
      5.   Occupancy Limit: The maximum number of unrelated adults living in a
campus organization at any time shall be determined by the most restrictive of
the following:
         a.   The number of dwelling units allowed on the lot based on square
footage per dwelling unit required by the zoning district, times four (4);
         b.   The number of persons allowed by the Minnesota state building
code and title 9 of this code.
      6.   Maintaining Property: The property shall be maintained according to
site and building plans approved by the zoning administrator. Any changes to
either plan also must be approved by the zoning administrator. Mechanical
equipment, refuse and recycling collection, loading and unloading shall be
screened from public rights of way and adjacent residential development.
      7.   Ingress/Egress: Building ingress/egress shall be adequately lit with
lighting that faces down and inward toward the building to limit light
pollution.
      8.   Setback: Setback and site development regulations for multi-family
residential uses shall apply to new construction of campus organization
facilities located within residential districts, except for special conditions
as stated in this section or in the conditional use permit.
      9.   Parking: A parking plan shall be submitted as part of the
application for conditional use permit that either: a) meets the parking
requirement in section
10-20-9  of this title; or b) addresses the parking needs of residents and
guests in a manner deemed satisfactory by the planning commission. The parking
plan shall not rely on street spaces to accommodate vehicles of the residents.
Any change to an approved parking plan requires approval by the zoning
administrator and, if deemed necessary, an amendment to the conditional use
permit.
      10.   Registration: Campus organizations must be registered with and
inspected by the city’s rental registration program (title 9, chapter 7 of this
code) whether the property is owner occupied or rented and must comply with its
rules. Violation of the rules of section
9-7-12 , “Conduct On Registered Premises”, of this code that would cause
revocation of a rental registration permit also shall cause the conditional use
permit to be revoked automatically.
   C.   Barber/hair salon/massage/nail salon/spa/tattoo/body piercing:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes
and zoning and business licensing requirements. All applicable state and local
laws regulations shall strictly be adhered to and all required operating
permits and licenses shall be secured.
   D.   State licensed assisted living and service-based facilities adhering to
all regulations of MN Statute 245.11:
      1.   Requirements: All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and
health codes, zoning and licensing requirements. All applicable state and city
local laws regulations governing such use are strictly adhered to and all
required operating permits are secured.
      2.   Single-Family Zoning:
         a.   Residential programs with a licensed capacity of six (6) or fewer
persons shall be considered a permitted single-family residential use of
property.
            (1)   Exception: Residential programs whose primary purpose is to
treat juveniles who have violated criminal statutes relating to sex offenses or
have been adjudicated delinquent on the basis of conduct in violation of
criminal statutes relating to sex offenses shall not be considered a permitted
use.
         b.   Adult foster care and community residential setting license
capacity with a maximum licensed capacity of four beds, including nonstaff
roomers and boarders, shall be considered permitted.
            (1)   Exception: May have a maximum licensed capacity of five beds
if all persons in care are age 55 or over.
         c.   Adult foster care: family adult day services for adults age 18 or
over shall also be considered permitted.
      3.   Multi-Family Zoning: Residential programs with a licensed capacity
of seven (7) to sixteen (16) persons shall be considered a permitted multi-
family residential use of property for the purposes of zoning and other land
use regulations.
   E.   State licensed or certified childcare centers adhering to all
regulations of MN Statute 142B:
      1.   Requirements: All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and
health codes, zoning and licensing requirements. All applicable state and local
regulations governing such use are strictly adhered to and all required
operating permits are secured.
   F.   State licensed family childcare adhering to all regulations of MN
Statute 142B:
      1.   Requirements: All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and
health codes, zoning and licensing requirements. All applicable state and local
regulations governing such use are strictly adhered to and all required
operating permits are secured.
   G.   Reserved.
   H.   Home occupations:
      1.   Use: Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary
to the residential use of the premises.
         a.   No home occupation shall require internal or external alterations
or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings except
where required to comply with local and state regulations including, but not
limited to, building code, health, fire and police requirements.
         b.   The home occupation should not change the residential character
thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
         c.   All permitted home occupations must be conducted entirely within
a building.
      2.   May not create nuisance: No home occupation shall produce light
glare, noise, fumes, odor or vibration that will in any way have an
objectionable effect upon adjacent or nearby property.
      3.   May not create electrical, visual or audible disturbances: No
equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will create electrical,
visual or audible interferences to surrounding properties.
      4.   Exterior Storage: There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or
materials used in the home occupation, except personal automobiles use for the
home occupation may be parked on the site.
      5.   Signage: One (1) exterior or interior sign (visible from exterior)
that is a maximum of 4 square feet is permitted.
      6.   Hours of operation: No home occupation shall be conducted between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
      7.   Parking: Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in
excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway.
      8.   Employees: Not more than one person other than those who customarily
reside on the premises shall be employed.
      9.   Prohibited Uses: The home occupation shall not involve any of the
following: woodworking, manufacturing, small engine or auto repair or hemp and/
or cannabis-related businesses.
      10.   Limited Uses: Garage sales, yard sales and/or onetime seasonal
sales shall be conducted no more than four (4) days total in any one hundred
eighty (180) day period.
      11.   The home occupation shall meet all local, state and federal
regulations.
   I.   Parking facilities in residential districts:
      1.   The lot must be surfaced with asphalt or concrete and may be used
only for the parking of passenger automobiles of employees, customers, or
guests of the person or firm controlling and operating the lot. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to maintain the parking space, driveways, striping,
and required screening of the off street parking facility.
      2.   The lot shall not be used for outdoor storage, sales, repair work,
or servicing of any kind.
      3.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement, and shall be subject to the approval of
the City Engineer.
      4.   No advertising sign or material is to be located on the lot. Any
additional signing and informational or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with chapter 22 of this title.
      5.   Setback for parking lots:
         a.   Not less than twenty five feet (25') from the street property
line when directly across the street from a residential use. This may be
reduced to twelve feet (12') when a greenbelt planting strip is provided
consisting of evergreen trees and/or deciduous trees and plants of sufficient
width and density to provide an effective visual screen. This planting strip
shall be designed to provide substantial visual screening to a height of four
feet (4'). Earth mounding or berms may be used but shall not be used to achieve
more than three feet (3') of the required screen. The planting plan and type of
plantings shall require the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
         b.   Not less than twelve feet (12') when abutting the side or rear
yard of a residential use. This may be reduced to three feet (3') when a
greenbelt planting strip, as described in subsection I5a of this section, is
provided to a height of six feet (6') or a screening fence is provided. The
fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick, wood or metal. Such fence shall
provide a solid screening effect six feet (6') in height. The design and
materials used in construction of the fence shall be subject to the approval of
the Zoning Administrator.
         c.   Not less than four feet (4') from the street property line when
directly across the street from any nonresidential use. The four foot (4')
strip must be landscaped.
         d.   Landscaping and buffer yards shall be consistent with chapter 19
of this title.
      6.   The entire area shall have a drainage system that is subject to the
approval of the City Engineer.
      7.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-19-19  of this title.
      8.   Variations to the above noted criteria may be considered if it is
determined to be beneficial to the overall design and neighboring area.
   J.   Reserved.
   K.   Reserved.
   L.   Religious institutions, group assembly, membership organizations,
schools and/or educational facilities:
      1.   Location Criteria:
         a.   Uses such as religious institutions and middle or high school
facilities that demand a significant volume of traffic and parking shall be
located on the edge of residential neighborhoods with direct access to arterial
and collector streets.
         b.   Uses such as elementary schools may be located more internal to
the neighborhood with access to collector or arterial streets acceptable via a
residential collector street.
      2.   Trails And Sidewalks: Sites shall be connected to adjacent
neighborhoods via trails and sidewalks.
      3.   Light And Noise Pollution: Where surface parking lots abut adjacent
residential development, significant landscaping shall be used to buffer light
and noise pollution, consistent with the provisions of chapter 19 of this
title.
      4.   Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment, refuse and recycling
collection, loading and unloading shall be screened from public rights of way
and adjacent residential development.
      5.   Building Ingress/Egress: Building ingress/egress shall be adequately
lit with lighting that faces down and inward toward the building to limit light
pollution.
      6.   Cemeteries shall be adequately screened from adjacent uses and
public right-of-way by utilizing a combination of screening and buffering
methods to provide an effective visual screen, where needed, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator.
   M.   Parking facilities in mixed use districts:
      1.   Parking structures shall incorporate the following along all street
level frontages of the structure, or a combination thereof:
         a.   Fifty percent (50%) street level active uses such as retail,
office or other commercial uses.
         b.   One hundred percent (100%) decorative window treatments or other
architectural enhancement to soften the appearance of a parking structure.
   N.   Reserved.
   O.   Housing shelters/temporary housing:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes,
zoning and licensing requirements. All applicable state and local regulations
governing such use are strictly adhered to and all required operating permits
are secured.
      2.   Uses shall meet the landscaping and buffering requirements for
commercial uses under section
10-19-17  of this title.
      3.   Parking shall be provided according to chapter 20 of this title.
   P.   Agricultural related commercial uses:
      1.   Building footprints shall amount to a minimum of one thousand
(1,000) square feet or five percent (5%) of the site, whichever is greater, and
the buildings shall be oriented to front on adjacent arterial or collector
streets. Where parcels have double frontage such as along an interstate
corridor, the building shall have a similar architectural character on both
frontages.
   Q.   Animal sales and services:
      1.   When permitted in mixed use, commercial and industrial districts,
all animal related uses and services (including kennels, runs, yards or
storage) shall be conducted within an enclosed soundproof structure or building
designed to minimize noise pollution. Any outside area used for pens and
exercise yards shall be located at least six hundred feet (600') from
residential uses and shall be screened from view.
   R.   Sales, rental or repair of auto related uses including, but not limited
to, trucks, automobiles, recreational vehicles, trailers, motorcycles and
boats, and nonauto equipment repair:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes,
zoning, local and state licensing.
      2.   Buildings: Buildings shall occupy a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
square feet or five percent (5%) of the site, whichever is greater, and shall
be oriented toward arterial or collector streets.
      3.   Buffering And Landscaping: Shall be provided when adjacent to
residential uses consistent with chapter 19 of this title.
      4.   Access: Auto related uses shall have access to streets without
passing by property zoned for residential or mixed use.
      5.   Auto Related Uses Not Owned By Dealer shall not be stored on the
site. Auto related uses shall not be displayed “for sale” or sold where
permitted unless as part of an approved licensed sales dealership in accordance
with the city’s business and licensing regulations.
      6.   Convenience grocery store with gas or service stations with gas and/
or auto repair shall be a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') from any
residential use.
      7.   Equipment, parts and other outdoor storage must be completely
enclosed in a permanent structure with no outside storage.
      8.   Display Standards for sales and rentals: The display must meet the
following conditions:
         a.   Must be displayed on a concrete or asphalt surface.
         b.   Must provide an on premises permanent structure as a sales
office, clearly displaying the name of the license holder, phone number, and
hours of operation that meets
10-18-2 .R.1.
         c.   Must occur on private property and may not encroach into the
public right of way.
         d.   Display items for sale must be licensed and operable.
   S.   Surface parking lots (as principal use):
      1.   Surface parking lots may be used as a principal use of a parcel as
long as its use is necessary to provide parking for an adjacent use that
otherwise would be unable to accommodate adequate parking needs. Such lots
should be shared between the private and public parking needs and shall not be
used as a private business enterprise in the mixed use or commercial districts.
      2.   The lot must be surfaced with asphalt or concrete. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to maintain the parking space, driveways, striping,
and required screening of the off street parking facility.
      3.   The lot shall not be used for outdoor storage, sales, repair work,
or servicing of any kind.
      4.   Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum of
conflict with through traffic movement, and shall be subject to the approval of
the city engineer.
      5.   Setback for parking lots:
         a.   Not less than twenty five feet (25') from the street property
line when directly across the street from a residential use. This may be
reduced to twelve feet (12') when a greenbelt planting strip is provided
consisting of evergreen trees and/or deciduous trees and plants of sufficient
width and density to provide an effective visual screen. This planting strip
shall be designed to provide substantial visual screening to a height of four
feet (4'). Earth mounding or berms may be used but shall not be used to achieve
more than three feet (3') of the required screen. The planting plan and type of
plantings shall require the approval of the city.
         b.   Not less than twelve feet (12') when abutting the side or rear
yard of a residential use. This may be reduced to three feet (3') when a
greenbelt planting strip, as described in subsection S5a of this section, is
provided to a height of six feet (6') or a screening fence is provided. The
fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick, wood or metal. Such fence shall
provide a solid screening effect six feet (6') in height. The design and
materials used in construction of the fence shall be subject to the approval of
the city.
         c.   Not less than four feet (4') from the street property line when
directly across the street from any nonresidential use. The four foot (4')
strip must be landscaped.
         d.   Landscaping and buffer yards shall be consistent with chapter 19
of this title.
      6.   The entire area shall have a drainage system that is subject to the
approval of the city engineer.
      7.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-19-19  of this title.
   T.   Amusement park, drive-in theater, amphitheater, shooting range:
      1.   All laws pertaining to noise impacts shall be adhered to.
      2.   Indoor shooting ranges shall be within a soundproofed building and
shall have hours limited to normal daytime business hours.
   U.   Bars, taverns, nightclubs:
      1.   Where feasible, shared parking or use of public parking facilities
shall be utilized.
      2.   Said uses in the neighborhood commercial district shall be limited
to no more than two thousand (2,000) square feet of serving area.
      3.   Any of said uses located within four hundred feet (400') of a
residential district shall be completely enclosed whenever amplified sound is
used, except as allowed by city permit or in section
4-4-2 , “Noise Control Regulations”, of this code. “Completely enclosed” means
that windows and doors are not open and where necessary, the entrance to the
establishment shall include a double set of doors separated by an entryway to
prevent sound from escaping to the outside as patrons enter.
      4.   Said uses shall not be established immediately adjacent to (directly
above, below or beside) any residential use without first receiving a
conditional use permit.
         a.   Exception: Uses which have a patron service area of two thousand
(2,000) square feet or less are permitted and do not require a conditional use
permit if they are established immediately adjacent to a residential use.
      5.   Said uses shall locate and operate in conformance with the city’s
business and license regulations and noise control regulations.
   V.   Contractor, industrial office, off site service/repair, yards (roofers,
landscapers, builders, etc.):
      1.   All equipment and materials shall be enclosed in a permanent
structure or completely screened from adjoining properties and public right of
way.
      2.   Contractor’s work vehicles, when on site and not in use, shall be
parked behind the principal building and not within required building setbacks.
      3.   Contractor’s work vehicles and delivery vehicles shall be directed
to the nearest collector or arterial street and shall not be routed through
residential streets.
      4.   Fabrication or similar work is not conducted at the site.
   W.   Lumberyards:
      1.   All lumber materials shall be stored in an enclosed structure or in
an area that is screened from adjoining property and public right of way.
   X.   Woodshops/cabinetry/carpentry products (with limited manufacturing):
      1.   All materials shall be stored in an enclosed structure or in an area
that is screened from adjoining property and public right of way.
   Y.   Car impound lots:
      1.   The entire site other than that occupied by the building, structure
and planting areas shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage, subject to the approval of the city engineer.
      2.   Impounded cars for the purpose of this title shall be considered
“outdoor storage”, and lighting, fencing, drainage, landscaping and other site
development standards in chapter 19 of this title shall apply accordingly.
      3.   Impound lots shall be set back a minimum of two hundred feet (200')
from a residential district. Required screening from residential use (section
10-19-18  of this title) shall be not less than six feet (6') in height at the
time of installation. Building and impervious setbacks must be sized to
accommodate the required screening.
      4.   Vehicular access points shall be subject to approval of the city
engineer and create a minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
      5.   Impound lots shall not operate as automobile wrecking yards,
junkyards or salvage yards, as defined in section
10-2-2  of this title.
   Z.   Recording studios for audio, video and film:
      1.   All recording activity involving amplified sound shall be within a
completely enclosed building with soundproofing of the building or area within
the building used for such activities and sound shall not be audible outside
the building or outside the area of the business premises.
   AA.   Textiles, spinning, weaving, dyeing, printing, knit goods, yarn,
thread and cordage duty production:
      1.   Uses shall be in conjunction with a retail business serving the end
consumer.
   BB.   Self-storage facilities:
      1.   Storage shall be screened from street frontages by other principal
uses or building(s) and from adjacent properties by a combination of solid
fencing and landscaping.
      2.   Storage shall be located so that truck traffic is not routed through
a residential district.
      3.   Screening and buffering standards in section
10-19-18  of this title shall apply.
      4.   Lighting shall comply with the provisions of section
10-19-19  of this title.
   CC.   Oil filtering/mixing in the LI and HI districts:
      1.   Oil filtering/mixing and storage of hazardous materials shall be no
closer than five hundred feet (500') from a residential use.
      2.   The business shall not cause an annoyance or nuisance to neighbors
by reason of unsightliness or excessive emission of odors, fumes, smoke,
vibration, dirt, dust, glare, wastes or noise.
      3.   Input materials shall be limited to used and new oils, gasoline,
kerosene and catalyst only. No other materials shall be processed or stored on
the site. Used restaurant oils shall be prefiltered, sanitized and deodorized
prior to arriving at the filtering/mixing plant.
      4.   The industry shall include no combustion, drying or heating
processes.
      5.   The filtering and mixing processes shall be closed, except during
maintenance. All processing shall be conducted within a building.
      6.   All storage shall be containerized. Dikes and/or equal containment
structures shall be sized to accommodate potential leaks. No on site storage of
finished product is allowed.
      7.   The owner shall obtain and keep current all required permits,
including, but not limited to, fire, building and MPCA permits.
   DD. Reserved.
   EE.   Micro-Dwelling Unit Sacred Community: As stated in Minnesota Statutes
327.30 added by Chapter 53, Article 11, Section 57, approved on May 24, 2023, a
Micro-Dwelling Unit Sacred Community shall be considered a conditional use of
property for the purposes of zoning and other land use regulations and must
meet all regulations contained within 327.30.
   FF.   State Licensed Medical Cannabis Combination Businesses:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes,
zoning, local registration and state licensing.
      2.   The following uses licensed for a Medical Cannabis Combination
Business are permitted in LI: Light Industrial and HI: Heavy Industrial zoning
districts:
         a.   Grow cannabis plants from seed or immature plant to mature plant
and harvest adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis flower from a mature
plant;
         b.   Make cannabis concentrate;
         c.   Make hemp concentrate, including hemp concentrate with a delta-
9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than 0.3 percent as measured by
weight;
         d.   Manufacture adult-use cannabis products and hemp-derived consumer
products for public consumption;
         e.   Package and label medical cannabis and medical cannabinoid
products for sale;
         f.   Package and label adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products for
sale to customers.
      3.   The following uses licensed for a Medical Cannabis Combination
Business are permitted in CC: Community Commercial, MU-1: Downtown Center Mixed
Use, MU-3: Commercial Mixed Use and MU-4: Gateway Mixed Use zoning districts:
         a.   Make artificially derived cannabinoids (small-batch baking/
cooking with associated packaging only);
         b.   Make medical cannabinoid products (small-batch baking/cooking
with associated packaging only);
         c.   Make lower-potency hemp edibles (small-batch baking/cooking with
associated packaging only);
         d.   Make adult-use cannabis edibles (small-batch baking/cooking with
associated packaging only.
      4.   The following uses licensed for a Medical Cannabis Combination
Business are permitted in CC: Community Commercial, MU-1: Downtown Center Mixed
Use, MU-2: Neighborhood Mixed Use, MU-3: Commercial Mixed Use and MU-4: Gateway
Mixed Use zoning districts:
         a.   Sell medical cannabis flower and medical cannabinoid products;
         b.   Sell immature cannabis plants and seedlings, adult-use cannabis
flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived
consumer products, and other products authorized by law.
   GG. State Licensed Cannabis Microbusiness:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes
and zoning, local registration and state licensing.
      2.   The following uses are permitted in LI: Light Industrial and HI:
Heavy Industrial zoning districts:
         a.   Grow, make, sell, and buy: cannabis (including immature plants
and seedlings), cannabis and lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived
consumer products.
         b.   May have an indoor on-site space where customers consume cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edibles.
         c.   Exterior cultivation is not permitted in the GO: Gateway Overlay
District.
      3.   The following uses are permitted in CC: Community Commercial, MU-1:
Downtown Center Mixed Use, MU-3: Commercial Mixed Use and MU-4: Gateway Mixed
Use zoning districts:
         a.   Sell: cannabis (including immature plants and seedlings),
cannabis and lower-potency hemp, and hemp-derived consumer products.
         b.   May have an indoor on-site space where customers consume cannabis
or lower-potency hemp edibles.
         c.   Exterior cultivation is not permitted in the GO: Gateway Overlay
District.
         d.   Cultivation and Production: consideration may be made if located
in a single tenant, stand-alone building where cannabis or hemp business is the
only tenant and building is not abutting or adjacent to a residential use.
      4.   The following uses are permitted in MU-2: Neighborhood Mixed Use
zoning district:
         a.   Sell: cannabis (including immature plants and seeds), cannabis
and lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products.
   HH. State Licensed Cannabis Mezzobusiness:
      1.   All uses shall comply with building, fire safety and health codes
and zoning, local registration and state licensing.
      2.   The following uses are permitted in LI: Light Industrial and HI:
Heavy Industrial zoning districts:
         a.   Grow, make, sell, and buy: cannabis (including immature plants
and seedlings), cannabis and lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived
consumer products.
      3.   The following uses are permitted in CC: Community Commercial, MU-1:
Downtown Center Mixed Use, MU-2: Neighborhood Mixed Use, MU-3: Commercial Mixed
Use and MU-4: Gateway Mixed Use zoning districts:
         a.   Sell: cannabis (including immature plants and seedlings),
cannabis and lower-potency hemp, and hemp-derived consumer products.
      4.   Exterior cultivation is not permitted in the GO: Gateway Overlay
District. (Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012; amd. Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014; 2016-21, 12-
12-2016; Ord. 2018-06, 3-26-2018; Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2022-21, 11-14-
2022; Ord. 2023-09, 11-27-2023; Ord. 2024-01, 3-25-2024; Ord. 2024-02, 2-26-
2024; Ord. 2024-03, 7-22-2024; Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025; Ord. 2025-06, 5-27-
2025)
10-18-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, EQUIPMENT AND USES:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Single-Family On Individual Lots In RLD-1:
Accessory Buildings,  RLD-1
Structures, Equipment Parcels 1 acre or Parcels greater than Parcels 5 acres or
and Uses              less              1 acre up to 5 acres more
Accessory        RLD-1
Buildings,                      Parcels greater
Structures,      Parcels 1 acre than 1 acre up to Parcels 5 acres or more
Equipment and    or less        5 acres
Uses
Floor Area Limit Up to principal dwelling footprint
Floor Area       Additional 680 Additional 1,500  Additional 1,500 sf total
Exceptions       sf total floor sf total floor    floor area - additional area
                 area           area              may be requested by CUP
Number           3              3                 4 - additional structures may
Permitted3                                        be requested by CUP
                 Limited to:
                    1.   Sidewalls no higher than height of principal structure
                 sidewalls or 12 ft (measured from grade to base of roof
Maximum Height   truss), whichever is greater, or
                    2.   Height of principal structure average roof ridge
                 (measured from grade to each roof ridge and then average)
                 Exception: Parcels 5 acres or more - additional height may be
                 requested by CUP.
Architectural
Detailing &
Fenestration
Required. Design
& Orientation    Structures 1,000 sf or over and/or wall length 30 ft or over
reviewed and
approved by
Zoning
Administrator
Attached         Same as principal structure or 25 ft - if overhead garage door
Setbacks1        faces street.
   Detached Setbacks 2 - 200 sf or less
Front Yard       Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
                 3 ft
Rear yard        3 ft - adjacent to alley
                 25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side    3 ft
Yard
Street Side Yard 15 ft
   Detached Setbacks2 - over 200 sf (Building Permit required)
Front Yard       Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
                 3 ft - if fire-rated walls face property line
                 3 ft - adjacent to alley
Rear Yard        5 ft - if non-fire-rated walls face property line
                 15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
                 25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side    3 ft
Yard             15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
Street Side Yard 15 ft
                 25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
 
   2.   Single-Family, Two-Family, Three-Family and Townhomes/Rowhomes On
Individual Lots In Residential Other Than RLD-1:
Accessory Buildings, Structures, Equipment and Uses RLD-2, RLD-3, RMD & RHD
Accessory
Buildings,
Structures,   RLD-2, RLD-3, RMD & RHD
Equipment and
Uses
Floor Area    Up to principal dwelling footprint or 800 sf, whichever is greater
Limit
Floor Area    At least (1) shed - 200 sf or less
Exceptions
Number        2
Permitted3
              Single & Two-Family Limited to:
              1.   Sidewalls no higher than height of principal structure sidewalls or 12 ft
Maximum       (measured from grade to base of roof truss), whichever is greater, or
Height        2.   Height of principal structure average roof ridge (measured grade to each
              roof ridge and then average)
              Townhome/rowhome/stacked duplex or triplex - side walls no higher than 15 ft or
              height of principal structure side walls, whichever is less
Architectural
Detailing &
Fenestration
Required.
Design &      Structures 1,000 sf or over and/or wall length 30 ft or over
Orientation
reviewed and
approved by
Zoning
Administrator
Attached      Same as principal structure or 25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street.
Setbacks1
   Detached Setbacks2 - 200 sf or less
Front Yard    Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
              3 ft - if fire-rated walls face property line
              3 ft - adjacent to alley
Rear Yard     5 ft - if non-fire-rated walls face property line
              15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
              25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side 3 ft
Yard          15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
Street Side   12 ft
Yard          25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
 
   3.   Single-Family, Two-Family And Three-Family On Individual Lots In Mixed
Use Districts:
Accessory Buildings, Structures, Equipment and Uses Mixed Use
Accessory
Buildings,
Structures,   Mixed Use
Equipment and
Uses
Floor Area    Up to principal dwelling footprint or 800 sf, whichever is greater
Limit
Floor Area    At least (1) shed - 200 sf or less
Exceptions
Number        2
Permitted3
              Single & Two-Family - Limited to:
              1.   Sidewalls no higher than height of principal structure sidewalls or 12 ft
Maximum       (measured from grade to base of roof truss), whichever is greater, or
Height        2.   Height of principal structure average roof ridge (measured grade to each
              roof ridges and then average)
              Townhome/Rowhome/stacked Duplex or Triplex - side walls no higher than 15 ft or
              height of principal structure side walls, whichever is less
Architectural
Detailing &
Fenestration
Required.
Design &      Structures 1,000 sf or over and/or wall length 30 ft or over
Orientation
reviewed and
approved by
Zoning
Administrator
Attached      Same as principal structure or 25 ft - if overhead door faces street.
Setbacks1     Three-Family only: Zero setback entry permitted for one (1) overhead door
              associated with at-grade or underground parking
   Detached Setbacks2 - 200 sf or less
Front Yard    Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
              3 ft
Rear Yard     3 ft - adjacent to alley
              25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side 3 ft
Yard
Street Side   3 ft
Yard
   Detached Setbacks2 - over 200 sf (Building Permit required)
Front Yard    Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
              3 ft - if fire-rated walls face property line
              3 ft - adjacent to alley
Rear Yard     5 ft - if non-fire-rated walls face property line
              15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
              25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side 3 ft
Yard          15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
Street Side   12 ft
Yard          25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
 
   4.   Multi-Family And Cluster Developments On Single Lot In Residential and
Mixed Use:
Accessory Buildings, Structures, Equipment and Uses    Residential & Mixed Use
Accessory
Buildings,
Structures,      Residential & Mixed Use
Equipment and
Uses
Floor Area    No more than 50% of gross floor area of principal structure
Limit
Floor Area    None
Exceptions
Number        No more than 50% of gross floor area of principal structure
Permitted
              Single & Two-Family - Limited to:
Maximum       1.   Sidewalls no higher than height of principal structure sidewalls or 12 ft
Height        (measured from grade to base of roof truss), whichever is greater, or
              2.   Height of principal structure average roof ridge (measured grade to each
              roof ridges and then average)
Architectural
Detailing &
Fenestration
Required.
Design &      Structures 1,000 sf or over and/or wall length 30 ft or over
Orientation
reviewed and
approved by
Zoning
Administrator
Attached      Same as principal structure or 25 ft - if overhead door faces street.
Setbacks1     Zero setback entry permitted for one (1) overhead door associated with at-grade
              or underground parking
   Detached Setbacks2 - 200 sf or less
Front Yard    Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
Rear Yard     3 ft
              3 ft - adjacent to alley
Interior Side 3 ft
Yard
Street Side   3 ft
Yard
   Detached Setbacks2 - over 200 sf (Building Permit required)
Front Yard    Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
              10 ft
Rear Yard     15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
              25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
Interior Side 10 ft
Yard          15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
Street Side   10 ft
Yard          15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
              25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
 
   B.   Institutional, Commercial, Industrial Districts and Commercial Uses in
Mixed Use Districts:
                     Institutional,
Accessory Buildings, Commercial,
Structures,          Industrial Districts Commercial Uses in Commercial Uses in
Equipment & Uses     & Commercial Uses in Mixed Use-1        Mixed Use-2
                     Mixed Use-3 & Mixed
                     Use-4
                   Institutional,
Accessory          Commercial,
Buildings,         Industrial Districts Commercial Uses in Commercial Uses in
Structures,        & Commercial Uses in Mixed Use-1        Mixed Use-2
Equipment & Uses   Mixed Use-3 & Mixed
                   Use-4
                   No more than 50% of                     No more than 30% of
Floor Area Limit / gross floor area of  No limit           the gross floor area
Number Permitted   principal structure                     of principal
                                                           structure
Floor Area         None
Exceptions
Maximum Height     No higher than principal structure
Architectural
Detailing &
Fenestration
Required. Design & Structures 1,000 sf or over and/or wall length 30 ft or over
Orientation
reviewed and
approved by Zoning
Administrator
                   Same as principal structure or 25 ft - if overhead door
Attached Setbacks1 faces street.
                   Zero setback entry permitted for one (1) overhead door
                   associated with at-grade or underground parking
Detached Setbacks2 - 200 sf or less
Front Yard         No permitted beyond front façade of principal structure
Rear, Interior and 10 ft
Street Side Yard   25 ft - if overhead door faces street
Detached Setbacks2 - over 200 sf (Building Permit required)
Front Yard         Not permitted beyond front facade of principal structure
Rear, Interior of  10 ft
Street Side Yard   15 ft - structures over 576 sf in Flood Fringe
                   25 ft - if overhead garage door faces street
 
   C.   Notes for all accessory buildings, structures, equipment and uses:
      1.   Overhead Doors: For attached and detached accessory structures that
face a public or private street, road or drive, the front, rear or street side
yard setback is 25 ft to provide adequate driveway depth to prevent vehicles
overhanging a sidewalk or boulevard.
      2.   Accessory Setbacks:
         i.   Single-Family, Two-Family and Three-Family on Individual Lots in
Residential and Mixed Use Districts: An additional 1 ft setback is required for
every 2 ft over 10 ft in accessory structure sidewall height.
         ii.   Institutional, Commercial Industrial Districts and Commercial
Uses in Mixed Use Districts: Additional setback area must be provided to meet
screening requirements for adjacent residential uses (see
10-19-18 ).
      3.   Accessory Number Limit Exemptions: The following and the like, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, do not count toward accessory number
limits but are subject to maximum impervious requirements: gazebos, outdoor
living rooms, pools, hot tubs and pool enclosures, green houses, chicken coops
and kennels/runs.
      4.   Building Permit required for accessory structure over 200 sf.
      5.   Easements: Accessory buildings, structures and equipment are not
permitted within recorded easements.
      6.   Materials:
         i.   Residential Districts and Residential uses in Mixed Use Districts
- Shall be compromised of materials and colors customarily used on dwellings.
         ii.   Commercial Uses in Mixed Use Districts, and Institutional,
Commercial and Industrial Districts - Shall be compromised of materials and
colors similar to principal structure.
         iii.   Non-durable materials, such as, but not limited to, cloth,
nylon, plastic tarps, are prohibited.
      7.   Carports: only permanent carports with two (2) or more open sides
and made of durable materials are permitted if Building Code standards met
(e.g., anchored into pavement).
      8.   Anchoring: All accessory structures, regardless of size, must be
anchored to prevent movement during windstorms. Product specification should be
verified by property owner.
      9.   Temporary storage units and construction job trailers are not
subject to this section but are subject
10-19-8 .
      10.   Accessory buildings, structures, equipment or uses are not
permitted on a parcel without a principal structure, building or use. (Ord.
2012-2, 2-27-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 6-24-2024; Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-18-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS, BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
regulation of legal nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify
those requirements, circumstances and conditions under which legal
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained.
This title establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area
for the location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary
and consistent with the establishment of these districts that nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction.
   B.   Intent: This title permits nonconformities to continue until they are
removed, but does not encourage their survival. Furthermore, it is the intent
of this section that all nonconforming uses shall be eventually brought into
conformity. Such uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this
title that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses not permitted in the
district.
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record Platted Prior To 2004: For the purposes of
orderly development of older areas of the community platted prior to 2004, a
single-family dwelling and two-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on nonconforming lots of record at the effective date
of this title, provided that the use fronts on a public right of way and
provided that the frontage, depth and area measurements are at least sixty six
percent (66%) the minimum requirements of the district where the use is
permitted. This provision shall apply provided that the side yards and front
yard setback requirements are met for the district.
Furthermore, for areas platted prior to 2004, multiple- family dwellings of
three (3) or more units and customary accessory buildings may be erected on
nonconforming lots of record at the effective date of this title provided that
they front on a public right of way and provided that the frontage, depth and
area measurements are at least ninety percent (90%) of the minimum requirements
of the district where the use is permitted. This provision shall apply provided
that side yard and front yard setback requirements are met for the district.
   D.   Provisions: If a lawful use of structures or of structures and land in
combination (referred to as use) exists at the effective date of this title
that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this title, that
use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   No existing use not permitted by this title in the district in which
it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or
structurally altered except in changing the use to a use permitted in the
district in which it is located, or as otherwise provided herein.
      2.   Any proposed structure which will, under this title, become
nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior
to the effective date of this title may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided construction is started within sixty (60) days of the
effective date of this title, is not abandoned for a period of more than one
hundred twenty (120) days, and continues to completion within two (2) years.
Such structure and use shall thereafter be a legally nonconforming structure
and use.
      3.   As described in Minnesota statutes 462.357, if at any time, a lawful
nonconforming building, structure or use shall be destroyed to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its market value, then without further action
by the city council, the building and the land on which such building was
located or maintained may be rebuilt to its former extent if a building permit
is obtained within one hundred eighty (180) days of said destruction except
that structures damaged in the floodway and flood fringe districts are subject
to subsection D14 of this section, consistent with Minnesota statutes chapter
462.357. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in
order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property. After one
hundred eighty (180) days of said destruction, such building will be subject to
all the regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the district in
which such land and buildings are located. Any building which is damaged to an
extent of less than fifty percent (50%) of its market value may be restored to
its former extent, if it is reconstructed within twelve (12) months after the
date of said damage. The market value determination of the extent of damage or
destruction shall be made by the city in either of the above described
situations.
      4.   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary
nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do not physically extend
or intensify the nonconforming use.
      5.   On any structure devoted in whole or in part to any lawful
nonconforming use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing provided that the
cubic content of the building as it existed at the effective date of this title
may not be increased. Any residential nonconforming use may be extended
throughout any part of a building which was unfinished but intended for such
use at the time of adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use may be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.
      6.   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official or an improvement limited to what is necessary to comply with
state or federal accessibility laws, providing the necessary repairs or
improvements shall not constitute more than fifty percent (50%) of fair market
value of each structure as determined by the city.
      7.   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful
nonconforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof,
provided, they will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume
or nonconformity of the building. A dwelling may not be demolished and a new
dwelling constructed unless the new dwelling is in full compliance with this
title.
      8.   Within any district, the owner of a legally nonconforming single-
family residential unit may request the board of adjustment and appeals for a
permit to physically expand or enlarge a structure, including the construction
or reconstruction of garages and other accessory buildings normally found in
residential areas. The request shall be filed with the city on an official
application form. The information requirements, notice requirements, hearing
requirements, and appeal procedures shall be identical to that provided for
variances in this title. Furthermore, the board of adjustment and appeals shall
not grant such a permit unless it makes the findings required to grant a
variance, with the exception that the prohibition of granting variances for
uses or considering nonconforming uses shall not be considered for this type of
a permit. If the proposed addition or new structure is in violation of any lot
coverage or setback requirements of an RLD-2 district (notwithstanding the
actual district in which the structure is located) a separate variance must
also be obtained.
      9.   No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be moved to
another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this title adoption unless such
movement shall bring the nonconformance into substantially closer compliance
with the requirements of this title.
      10.   Any lawful nonconforming use may be changed to another lawful
nonconforming use provided that the city council, by making findings in the
specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally or more appropriate
to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change,
the city council may require appropriate conditions and safeguards in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
      11.   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve (12) months,
the original nonconforming use may not be resumed and any future use must be
made to conform with the provisions of this title, unless otherwise approved by
a resolution of a majority of the city council. A single-family dwelling will
be deemed to be discontinued only when it is replaced with a different use or
unoccupied for a period in excess of two (2) years. Provided, however, that if
the owner of the dwelling establishes to the zoning administrator that he or
she has been making a good faith effort to sell or lease the property for
residential use, the zoning administrator may grant an additional one year
extension.
      12.   Where a lawful nonconforming use applies to a structure and land in
combination, continuing use of the land in a nonconforming manner shall not be
permitted if the structure is removed or destroyed.
      13.   Any legal nonconforming use which is replaced or changed, in whole
or in part, to a conforming use, shall thereafter, as applicable, conform to
the regulations as prescribed by this title or amendments thereto. The
nonconforming use, whether in whole or in part, may not thereafter be resumed.
      14.   Existing lots cannot be made nonconforming: No lot, yard or other
open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make such lot, yard
or open space less than the minimum required by this title, and if the existing
yard or other open space as existing is less than the minimum required, it
shall not be further reduced. No required open space provided for any building
or structure shall be included as part of any open space required for another
structure.
      15.   Additions to nonconforming structures permitted: If a lawfully
established structure, which because of a change in the setback requirements
over time, is not in conformance with the current requirements, an addition may
be made, even if the addition violates the current setback requirements,
provided that:
         a.   The addition does not encroach across a property line.
         b.   The addition does not extend into the applicable nonconforming
yard requirement greater than the existing nonconforming structure.
         c.   The addition must meet other current zoning requirements
including other setbacks .
      16.   Additional standards for floodway and flood fringe overlay
districts:
         a.   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformity.
         b.   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged or
experiences a "repetitive loss", as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of
chapter 17, article B of this title. The applicable provisions for establishing
new uses or new structures in
chapter 17, article B of this title will apply depending upon whether the use
or structure is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
         c.   If a "substantial improvement" occurs, as defined in section
10-2-2 of this title, from any combination of a building addition to the
outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration, or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of
chapter 17, article B of this title for new structures, depending upon whether
the structure is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
         d.   In floodway or flood fringe overlay districts, any structural
alteration or addition to a nonconforming use or structure which would result
in increasing the flood damage potential of that use or structure shall be
floodproofed in accordance with the Minnesota state building code (i.e., FP-
1 through FP-4 floodproofing classifications), except as further restricted by
subsections D6 and D14c of this section. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012; amd. Ord.
2024-04, 6-24-2024)
CHAPTER 19
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Dwelling Unit Restriction
10-19-3: Platted And Unplatted Property
10-19-4: Swimming Pools (Rep. by Ord. 2010-9, 8-23-2010)
10-19-5: Fences
10-19-6: Drainage Plans
10-19-7: Refuse And Recycling Spaces
10-19-8: Outside Storage
10-19-9: Usable Open Space (Rep. by Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012)
10-19-10: Height
10-19-11: Building Type And Construction
10-19-12: Allowed Extension Into Required Setbacks
10-19-13: Minimum Lot Area, Unsewered Lots
10-19-14: Single-Family Dwellings
10-19-15: Used Automobile Sales (Rep. by Ord. 2007-2, 2-5-2007)
10-19-16: Traffic Visibility Standards
10-19-17: Landscaping And Tree Standards
10-19-18: Screening And Buffering Standards
10-19-19: Outdoor Lighting Standards
10-19-20: Allowed Increase To Impervious Surface Areas
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish general development performance
standards. These standards are intended and designed to assure compatibility of
uses; and to enhance the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the city. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-19-2: DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTION:
   A.   No garage, tent, accessory building, travel trailer or motor home shall
at any time be used as living quarters, temporarily or permanently.
   B.   Tents, playhouses, travel trailers or motor homes or similar structures
may be used only for play or recreational purposes.
   C.   No accessory building or structure other than a fence or temporary
construction office may be constructed prior to the time of construction of the
principal building or structure. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-
24-2025)
10-19-3: PLATTED AND UNPLATTED PROPERTY:
   A.   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the building
official an accurate description of the property to be improved including
front, rear and side yard lot lines of said premises and information on the
location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of
easements crossing the property, encroachments and any other information which
may be necessary to ensure conformance to city code provisions.
   B.   All buildings shall be placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
   C.   Except in the case of planned unit developments as provided for in
chapter 17, article A of this title, not more than one principal building shall
be located on a lot in a residentially zoned area, excluding the RMD and RHD
districts. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-4: SWIMMING POOLS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2010-9, 8-23-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 9 of this code.
10-19-5: FENCES:
Fences shall be permitted in all yards subject to the following:
   A.   Barbed Wire And Electric Fences: Except as specified in this
subsection, electric fences shall only be permitted in the TZ district when
related to farming, and hobby farms, and on farms in other districts when
related to farming, and must be located a minimum of five feet (5') from a
property line. Barbed wire fences are not permitted in any districts within the
city except as permitted in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
   B.   Residential District Fences:
      1.   Front yard: Fences shall not exceed three feet (3') in height except
fences that are at least seventy five percent (75%) light permeable may be up
to four feet (4') in height.
      2.   Side and rear yards: Fences shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height from the rear lot line to the front wall line of the existing principal
structure. Fences exceeding eight feet (8') in height require a conditional use
permit.
      3.   Fences exceeding three feet (3') in height shall not be placed
within forty feet (40') of intersecting curb lines or within ten feet (10') of
a driveway unless at least seventy five percent (75%) light permeable.
      4.   Fences exceeding seven feet (7') in height require a permit from the
building codes office.
      5.   Fences shall not obstruct natural drainage.
      6.   For lots which may not comply with existing yard requirements, the
zoning administrator may determine front, side and rear lot designated areas
based on building configuration, site visibility and other applicable factors.
   C.   Business And Industrial District Fences:
      1.   Front yard: Fences shall not exceed three feet (3') in height except
fences that are at least seventy five percent (75%) light permeable may be up
to six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Side and rear yards: Fences may be up to ten feet (10') in height.
Fences exceeding ten feet (10') in height require a conditional use permit.
      3.   Fences extending across a front yard shall be at least seventy five
percent (75%) light permeable. Fences abutting a street shall be at least
seventy five percent (75%) light permeable within the area necessary to
maintain traffic visibility outlined in section
10-19-16 of this chapter.
      4.   Fences exceeding seven feet (7') in height require a permit from the
building codes office.
      5.   Fences shall not obstruct natural drainage.
      6.   Fences which are primarily erected as a security measure may have
arms projecting into the applicant's property on which barbed wire can be
fastened commencing at a point at least seven feet (7') above the ground.
      7.   For lots which may not comply with existing yard requirements, the
zoning administrator may determine front, side and rear lot designated areas
based on building configuration, site visibility and other applicable factors.
(Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016)
10-19-6: DRAINAGE PLANS:
   A.   In the case of all residential subdivisions, multi-family, mixed use,
commercial and industrial developments, the drainage plans with appropriate
spot site elevations shall be submitted to the city engineer for review and the
final drainage plan shall be subject to written approval. In the case of such
uses, no modifications in grade and drainage flow through fill, erection of
retaining walls or other such actions shall be permitted until such plans have
been reviewed and received written approval from the city engineer.
   B.   Unless authorized in writing by the city engineer, the top of the
foundation and garage floor of residential dwellings may not be less than
twenty two inches (22") above the top of the curb. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005;
amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-19-7: REFUSE AND RECYCLING SPACES:
   A.   Location And Screening:
      1.   All refuse handling equipment including, but not limited to, garbage
cans, dumpsters and recycling containers must be stored within the principal
structure, within an accessory building, or in a screened enclosure, except for
the following:
         a.   Single-family dwellings.
         b.   Two-family dwellings.
         c.   Roll-off dumpsters are allowed for temporary use in any zoning
district during demolition or construction. They do not have to be screened,
however, they shall be positioned so that they do not encroach into public
right of way, do not block traffic visibility per section
10-19-16 of this chapter, and are a minimum of three feet (3') from any
property line. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-19-2008)
      2.   Screened enclosures must meet the following:
         a.   Screened enclosures must be located in a rear or side yard and
must meet all applicable setback requirements and easements unless waived by
the public works department in accordance with subsection 3-4-2C of this code.
         b.   The screened enclosure must be in an accessible location for
sanitation vehicles.
         c.   Screened enclosures must consist of a fence or wall at least six
feet (6') in height and a minimum opaqueness of eighty percent (80%).
      3.   Recycling spaces must be designed in accordance with the building
code. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-8: OUTSIDE STORAGE:
   A.   In residential and institutional zoning district, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Vehicle Storage: All vehicles, recreational vehicles, utility
trailers, off road vehicles, and similar equipment stored on residential
property shall meet the provisions of sections
9-8-3 and
9-8-4 of this code. Recreational vehicles stored in yards of residential
properties shall be a minimum of three feet (3') from any property line.
      2.   Vehicle Occupancy: No recreational or oversized vehicle shall be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes while parked or
stored. Exception: A nonpaying guest of the owner of the property may occupy
one recreational vehicle in addition to those permitted herein. Such vehicle
shall be parked subject to the provisions of this section and used for sleeping
purposes for a period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days at one time or
more than fourteen (14) days total in one calendar year.
      3.   Screening: Within all multi-family zoning districts, recreational
and oversized vehicles may be stored on site only if stored in an area that is
completely screened from eye level view from adjacent properties and public
streets.
      4.   Permanent use of shipping containers is not permitted in residential
or institutional zoning districts.
   B.   In commercial, industrial and mixed use districts, the following
provisions shall apply:
      1.   Area Prohibited: The area occupied is not within a required front or
required side yard, or on the freeway side side yard when adjacent to any state
highway or interstate highway.
      2.   Fence Or Screen: The storage area is fenced or screened in
accordance with section
10-19-18 of this chapter. For purposes of this section, "storage" does not
include the display of goods which are being sold at retail to the general
public such as automobiles, trucks, farm equipment, and similar items.
      3.   Concrete Or Asphalt Surface: The storage area is surfaced with
concrete or asphalt to control dust and drainage according to a plan submitted
to and subject to approval of the city engineer. Provided, however, gravel
surface storage is permitted in industrial zoned areas.
      4.   Lighting: All lighting must be hooded and so directed that the light
source will be in compliance with section
10-19-19 of this chapter.
      5.   Parking Or Loading Spaces: The storage area does not encroach upon
required parking space or required loading space as required by this title.
      6.   Traffic Visibility Triangle: No outdoor display activities shall
occur in a traffic visibility triangle, sidewalk, right of way or public
property.
      7.   Site Plan: The site plan documenting the location and grading of the
storage operation must be submitted and will be subject to the approval of the
city engineer.
      8.   Sidewalk Displays: Retail and service oriented commercial uses
within the NC district shall keep all storage of goods and products within an
enclosed structure, except for the occasional sidewalk sale or daily display of
goods. Any daily display of goods must be returned inside the building during
nonbusiness hours.
      9.   Seasonal Goods: Seasonal goods and products shall be limited to a
period of no more than thirty (30) consecutive days and shall be located on a
lot such that a minimum number of parking stalls are taken out of the parking
inventory.
      10.   Exemptions: Motor vehicles necessary to the operation of the
principal use and of not more than one ton capacity may be stored and parked
within permitted parking areas. Storage of trucks or other vehicles in excess
of one ton capacity or equipment shall be prohibited in front yard areas.
      11.   Permanent use of shipping containers is permitted in Mixed Use-3,
commercial and industrial zoning districts only if the following are met:
         a.   May not be visible from public streets.
         b.   Not permitted in Mixed Use Districts 1 or 2 or Gateway Overlay
area (i.e. I-94, Hwy 10, Hwy 75, Main Avenue SE, 34th St. S.)
         c.   Installation must meet Building Code.
         d.   Must be camouflaged by either painting the same color as
principal structure or by adding similar materials of principal structure (e.g.
siding).
      12.    Prohibited Storage: Storage shall not be allowed in trucks,
trailers or similar containers, unless the truck/trailer is in a roadworthy
condition as determined by the zoning administrator and the storage is for less
than seven (7) days. (Ord. 2008-3, 2-19-2008)
   C.   Temporary Storage:
      1.   Storage units, moving pods, shipping containers and construction job
trailers may be located in residential, commercial, mixed use, institutional
and industrial districts temporarily, as follows:
         a.   One unit of one hundred fifty (150) square feet or less may be
located for up to twenty-one (21) days on any parcel. Additional units may be
approved by the zoning administrator for large projects or natural disasters,
including fire.
            (1)   Exception-Existing Structures: The storage container may
remain at an address that has an active building permit where construction of a
structure has commenced for up to ninety (90) days. The zoning administrator
may extend this time for good cause.
            (2)   Exception-New Construction: The storage container may remain
at an address that has an active building permit where construction of a
structure has commenced for up to twenty-one (21) days following the completion
of the project or expiration of the building permit, whichever comes first.
         b.   Units may not encroach into public right of way.
         c.   Units may not block traffic visibility per section
10-19-17 of this chapter or traffic circulation.
         d.   Units must be placed a minimum of five feet (5') from any
property line.
         e.   Units must be placed on a hard surface driveway or parking lot.
      2.   Storage of temporary buildings or structures, including but not
limited to, manufactured homes, accessory buildings, tiny/micro homes and
temporary family healthcare dwellings is limited to seven (7) days in
commercial and industrial district parcels unless part of a permitted sales
display area. Temporary storage in residential, institutional and mixed use
districts is not permitted.
   D.   All open or outdoor service, sale and rental must conform to the
following:
      1.   Outdoor service, sale and/or rental as a primary use (i.e., motor
vehicle sales, large equipment rental, nurseries, etc.) shall conform to the
following provisions:
         a.   Outside service, sales and rental areas are fenced or screened
from view of neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district
in compliance with section
10-19-18 of this chapter.
         b.   The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-19-19 of this chapter.
         c.   The use does not take up parking space as required for conformity
to this title.
         d.   No outdoor display activities shall occur in a traffic visibility
triangle, sidewalk, right of way or public property.
         e.   All open or outdoor service, sale and rental must be consistent
with section
10-18-2, auto related uses, of this title. (Ord. 2007-2, 2-5-2007)
      2.   Outdoor service, sale and rental as a secondary or accessory use
shall conform to the following:
         a.   Outside service sales and rental shall be limited in size to ten
percent (10%) of the gross floor area of the principal structure, and in no
case shall exceed four thousand (4,000) square feet per development site.
         b.   The display area shall meet the required building setbacks for
the district in which it is located.
         c.   No outdoor display activities shall occur in a traffic visibility
triangle, sidewalk, right of way or public property.
         d.   The display area shall not take up required parking spaces or
required landscaping areas.
         e.   The area shall be fenced or screened from adjacent residential
uses or districts in accordance with section
10-19-18 of this chapter.
         f.   All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source will be in compliance with section
10-19-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 6-24-
2024)
10-19-9: USABLE OPEN SPACE:
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012)
10-19-10: HEIGHT:
   A.   Building heights in excess of those standards contained in the district
provisions may be allowed through a conditional use permit, provided that:
      1.   The site is capable of accommodating the increased intensity of use.
      2.   The increased intensity of use does not cause an increase in traffic
volume beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets.
      3.   Public utilities and services are adequate.
      4.   For each additional story over the district limitation or for each
additional ten feet (10') above the maximum allowed per district, front and
side yard setback requirements shall be increased by ten percent (10%).
      5.   The provisions of subsection 10-4-3E of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
   B.   The building height limits established for district shall not apply to
the following:
      1.   Belfries.
      2.   Chimneys or flues.
      3.   Church spires.
      4.   Cooling towers.
      5.   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable floor space.
      6.   Elevator penthouses.
      7.   Flagpoles.
      8.   Monuments.
      9.   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet (3') above the
limiting height of the building.
      10.   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services.
      11.   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances.
      12.   Farming buildings.
      13.   Wind energy conversion system towers as regulated by chapter 17,
article C of this title.
      14.   Communication reception/transmission devices as regulated by
chapter 17, article D of this title.
   C.   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond the
limited height of a building may occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the area of such roof nor exceed ten feet (10') unless otherwise noted in
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-11: BUILDING TYPE AND CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No galvanized or unfinished steel, galvalum or unfinished aluminum
buildings (walls or roofs), except those specifically intended to have a
corrosive designed finish shall be permitted in any zoning district, except in
association with farming operations, or in industrial zones, or as allowed by
this title.
   B.   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials comparable in
grade and quality to the following:
      1.   Brick.
      2.   Natural stone.
      3.   Decorative concrete block.
      4.   Cast in place concrete or precast concrete panels.
      5.   Wood; provided, the surfaces are finished for exterior use and wood
of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood or cypress.
      6.   Curtain wall panels of steel, fiberglass and aluminum
(nonstructural, nonload bearing); provided such panels are factory fabricated
and finished with a durable nonfade surface and their fasteners are of a
corrosion resistant design.
      7.   Glass curtain wall panels and glass block.
      8.   Stucco.
      9.   Vinyl.
      10.   Steel, aluminum and masonite siding.
      11.   Other materials as determined by the city building official but not
including galvanized or unfinished metal, except in industrial zones and for
farming operations. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-12: ALLOWED EXTENSION INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS:
A.   The following shall not be considered as encroachments on yard setback
requirements:
   1.   Residential Zoning Districts:
 
Primary and
Accessory         Front Yard        Interior Side Street Side Yard Rear Yard
Structure Minimum                   Yard
Setbacks
Chimneys, sills,
eaves, gutters,
balconies, decks,
open porches/
stoops/entryways, 15 ft             At least 2 ft 7 ft             15 ft
open fire
balconies/fire
escapes, window
wells, stairs/
steps
                  Not permitted
Solar and wind    beyond front
energy systems    facade of         10 ft         10 ft            10 ft
(ground-mounted)  principal
                  structure
Walks, utilities
(other than
heating and
cooling
equipment),
landscaping and
gardening
structures,       0 ft              0 ft          0 ft             0 ft
fences, private
recreation
structures
(except swimming
pools, hot tubs
and ice rinks),
and accessibility
ramps
                  Not permitted
                  beyond front
                  facade of
Heating and       principal
cooling equipment structure. If
including wood    heating and
boilers and       cooling equipment
above-ground      can only be
geothermal        placed in the     0 ft1         0 ft1            0 ft1
equipment and     front yard by
satellite dishes  determination of
less than 40      Building
inches wide       Official, the
                  zoning adminis
                  trator may allow
                  in front yard
                  with screening
                  Not permitted
Swimming pools,   beyond front
hot tubs and ice  facade of         5 ft1         5 ft1            5 ft1
rinks             principal
                  structure
 
   Note:
      1.    Product specification clearance requirements should be verified by
property owner.
      2.   Residential Zoning Districts: Applicable building code requirements
for the above shall apply.
      3.   Adjacent Structures: Where existing adjacent structures have front
yard setbacks less than those required, the minimum front yard setback may be
the average of adjacent structures on the same block for the purpose of this
section. If only one adjacent lot is occupied by a structure, the minimum front
yard may be that of said principal structure.
(Ord. 2015-18, 8-24-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 6-24-2024)
10-19-13: MINIMUM LOT AREA, UNSEWERED LOTS:
Lot sizes where public sewer is not available shall conform to the minimum
requirements set forth below:
   A.   The minimum single-family lot size is two and one-half (21/2) acres.
This minimum lot size shall not apply to smaller separate parcels of record in
separate ownership lawfully existing prior to January 1, 1991; provided, that
it can be demonstrated by means satisfactory to the city that the smaller
parcels will not result in groundwater, soil or other contamination which may
endanger the public health.
   B.   Apartments and multiple-family dwellings are not allowable uses.
   C.   Subject to other provisions of this title, other uses may be permitted
by conditional use permit. The minimum lot size for each principal use is two
and one-half (21/2) acres. A conditional use permit shall not be granted unless
it can be demonstrated by means satisfactory to the city that the use:
      1.   Will not result in groundwater, soil or other contamination which
may endanger the public health.
      2.   Will not negatively affect future city utility service demands and
expense.
      3.   Will not jeopardize public safety and general welfare.
      4.   The provisions of subsection 10-4-3E of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-14: SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
All single-family detached homes except as otherwise approved by PUD shall:
   A.   Be constructed upon a permanent foundation that meets the requirements
of the state building code.
   B.   Not be less than twenty two feet (22') in width. Width measurements
shall not take account of overhang and other projections beyond the principal
walls.
   C.   The exterior material on all single-family dwellings must be of a
color, material and scale customarily used on existing dwellings within the
general area. The exterior material must extend to within eight inches (8") of
the ground and an opaque surface extend from the bottom of the exterior
material to the ground level, except that when a solid concrete or masonry
perimeter foundation is used the exterior covering material need not extend
below the top of the foundation. The exterior material skirting a piered or
wood foundation must be securely fastened to the foundation via a frame or
similar construction to the walls of the dwelling.
   D.   The roof on all single-family dwellings must be pitched with a minimum
vertical rise of four inches (4") for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal
run and must consist of shingles or other nonreflective roof material
customarily used for conventional dwellings, and other such passive spaces
shall be exempt from the roof pitch requirement. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-19-15: USED AUTOMOBILE SALES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2007-2, 2-5-2007)
10-19-16: TRAFFIC VISIBILITY STANDARDS:
Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision between a height of two feet (2') and eight feet
(8') above street grade where it will interfere with traffic or pedestrian
visibility at an intersection or from a driveway or alley to a public way.
   A.   Corner Lots: On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a
height of two feet (2') and eight feet (8') within forty feet (40') from the
intersecting curb lines, or within twenty five feet (25') from the intersecting
property lines if there is no curb. Exception: Corner lots in districts in
which the required front yard and/or side yard setbacks are zero (e.g., MU-1)
may be exempt from this requirement, if approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Fences, Walls, Hedges, And Structures:
      1.   Front Yard: In required front yards, fences, walls, hedges, and
structures shall be at least seventy five percent (75%) open to passage of air
and light.
      2.   Street Side Yard: Within ten feet (10') of a driveway or alley in a
required side yard abutting a street, any portion of a fence, wall, hedge or
structure exceeding twenty four inches (24") in height shall be at least
seventy five percent (75%) open to passage of air and light. (Ord. 2008-2, 2-
19-2008)
10-19-17: LANDSCAPING AND TREE STANDARDS:
   A.   Goal/Objective: The following landscaping standards are intended to
promote the creation of green space within the city in order to maintain and
increase aesthetics, buffer off street parking areas, reduce drainage off site,
filter noise and light, and encourage the planting of trees throughout the
community.
   B.   General Applicability: A landscaping plan shall be submitted and
approved prior to the issuance of building permits for developments in all
zoning districts except MU-1 and for single and two-family development, subject
to the standards below:
      1.   Change Of Land Use: Whenever a new land use is established or a
property is converted to a new land use type, landscape requirements shall be
applicable to the entire lot.
      2.   Existing developments:
         a.   Whenever an owner makes improvements or repairs to existing
properties that increase the floor area by more than one thousand (1,000)
square feet or ten percent (10%), whichever is greater, or the property is
improved beyond fifty percent (50%) of the assessed value of the structure(s),
landscaping and tree standards shall apply to the entire site.
         b.   Whenever a building(s) is constructed or structurally altered by
one or more smaller additions, landscape requirements shall be applicable to
the new construction and adjoining yard only.
      3.   New and expanded parking areas shall meet landscape requirements.
Parking areas without permanent hard surfaces shall meet the requirements if
surfaced or altered in any way.
      4.   Whenever storage of materials or equipment is commenced on a site
that has not previously been used for that purpose, screening shall be provided
according to the landscape regulations.
      5.   If a property will be developed in phases, a site plan for the
entire property shall be provided with the initial phase; plant units, however,
unless part of a required screen or buffer, may be installed as phases are
developed.
      6.   Exemptions and exceptions shall be as follows: Special consideration
will be given to site design, topography, unique relationships to adjacent
properties and existing utilities in enforcing screening requirements. If the
applicant can demonstrate that the public interest is better served through
alternative landscape design, the zoning administrator may permit variation
from these regulations.
   C.   Planting:
      1.   Plants shall be planted in permeable, green spaces of adequate size
to ensure the health of the plantings. Plants used to fulfill requirements of
this section shall meet the standards of the American Nursery And Landscape
Association.
      2.   Plant Units Required:
         a.   Within all zoning districts except MU-1, LI, HI and single and
two-family development, a minimum of three (3) plant units shall be provided
for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area or fraction thereof.
         b.   Within any LI or HI district, a minimum of one (1) plant unit
shall be provided for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of lot area or
fraction thereof.
         c.   For properties abutting a gateway, as defined by Title 10-17E.
GO: Gateway Overlay District, the minimum plant units for each one thousand
(1,000) square feet of lot area or fraction thereof shall be increased to four
(4).
         d.   A minimum of forty (40) plant units shall be provided for
anyproperty.
         e.   Plant unit equivalencies:
 
Type Of Plant Material     Minimum Size At Time Of Planting Equivalent
                                                            Plant Units
Large, mature evergreen or 6 - 8' in height                 10
deciduous tree
Small, mature evergreen or 3 - 6' in height                 5
deciduous tree
Mature shrub               2 - 3 feet in height             2.5
Perennials                 1 gallon                         1
 
      3.   Boulevard Trees: All developments within the city shall provide
boulevard trees in addition to and separate from plant unit requirements of
this subsection and in conformance with the standards outlined below:
         a.   All boulevard trees planted will be a minimum of six to eight
feet (6 ‘ 8') in height at the time of planting and of a variety and placement
approved by the City Forester.
         b.   The number of trees planted on any lot will be equivalent to that
lot's total linear footage along the public street right of way divided by
thirty feet (30') provided the total number of trees may be reduced so as to
not conflict with driveways, fire hydrants, utilities and easement location or
other impediments.
            (1)   Boulevard tree requirements may be waived by the zoning
administrator due to conflicts.
            (2)   If boulevard trees cannot be placed in the boulevard due to
conflicts, the same number of required boulevard trees shall be located along
the front property line of the development, or as approved by zoning
administrator.
   D.   Maintenance And Replacement: Trees, shrubs, fences, walls and other
landscape features depicted on plans approved by the city will be considered as
elements of the project in the same manner as parking, building materials and
other plan details. The landowner, or successor in interest, or agent, if any,
will be jointly responsible for regularly maintaining all landscaping so that
it presents a healthy, neat, and orderly appearance, including the removal of
weed species as well as the repair or replacement of damaged or destroyed
landscaping.
   E.   Traffic Visibility Standards: Traffic visibility standards within
section
10-19-16 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2006-5, 3-6-2005; Ord. 2024-03, 7-
22-2024)
10-19-18: SCREENING AND BUFFERING STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Protection Screening: Where any non-residential use or
multi- family building of three (3) or more units, including their accessory
uses, abuts or is adjacent a residential use, screening along the boundary of
the non-residential property or multi-family building shall be provided. All
fencing and screening specifically required by this title shall be subject to
section
10-19-5  of this chapter and shall consist of either a solid fence or a
greenbelt planting strip as provided for below:
      1.   A greenbelt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees and/or
deciduous trees and plants and shall be:
         a.   Of sufficient width and density to provide an effective visual
screen, as approved by zoning administrator.
         b.   Minimum height of six (6) feet.
         c.   Earth mounding or berms may be used but shall not be used to
achieve more than three (3) feet of the required screen.
      2.   A screening fence shall be constructed of masonry, brick, wood,
metal or vinyl and shall be a minimum of six (6) feet in height. The design and
materials used in constructing a required screening fence shall be subject to
approval by zoning administrator.
      3.   A combination of screening and buffering methods, which provide an
effective visual screen to a minimum of six (6') feet in height, may be
utilized subject to approval by zoning administrator.
      4.   Exception: Multi-family buildings of three (3) or more units
abutting other multi-family buildings are not required to provide screening.
   B.   Parking Lot Screening: All parking lots abutting public sidewalks and/
or streets must provide a parking lot screening buffer as follows:
      1.   Screening buffer shall:
         a.   Be a minimum depth of four (4) feet along sidewalk or curb.
         b.   Contain a continuous hedgerow or shrubs no taller than 3 feet
(3') plus 1 small tree per 25 linear feet of parking lot with breaks for
pedestrian access to adjacent sidewalks/uses, if necessary; or
         c.   Contain a decorative fence, railing or wall no taller than 3 feet
(3') plus 1 plant unit per five (5) linear feet) of parking lot with breaks for
pedestrian access to adjacent sidewalks/uses, if necessary.
      2.   Alternative parking lot screens or buffer widths may be approved by
the zoning administrator.
      3.   Exception: Existing parking lots are not required to meet the
standards above unless:
         a.   Reconstructed (minor maintenance excluded).
         b.   Additional pavement added to existing surface.
      4.   These standards do not apply to vehicle or equipment sales and
rental uses. (Ord. 2013-16, 8-26-2013; Ord. 2024-03, 7-22-2024; Ord. 2025-02,
3-24-2025)
10-19-19: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area, sign or other
structure, shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential or mixed use or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected
glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The
source of light shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light
adjacent property. Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right of way. Any light or combination of lights which casts
light on residential property shall not exceed four (4) foot-candles (meter
reading) as measured from said property. This section shall not apply to sports
stadiums and athletic fields or to public recreational facilities. (Ord. 2004-
40, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 3-24-2025)
10-19-20: ALLOWED INCREASE TO IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREAS:
As outlined within section
3-8A-3, a stormwater management plan may, but is not required to, include
analysis of stormwater quality and quantity that would allow impervious areas
that exceed those outlined within title 10, chapter 12. The city engineer, or
designee, shall maintain the list of all stormwater management plans. (Ord.
2020-08, 8-24-2020)
CHAPTER 20
OFF STREET PARKING
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose
10-20-2: Application Of Off Street Parking Regulations
10-20-3: Site Plan Drawing Necessary
10-20-4: General Provisions
10-20-5: Maintenance
10-20-6: Location
10-20-7: Use Of Required Area
10-20-8: Accessible Parking Spaces
10-20-9: Number Of Parking Spaces Required
10-20-10: Shared Parking Facilities
10-20-1: PURPOSE:
The regulation of off street parking spaces in these zoning regulations is to
alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right of way and to promote the
safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum requirements
for off street parking of motor and other vehicles in accordance with the
utilization of various parcels of land or structures. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-2: APPLICATION OF OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
The regulations and requirements set forth herein will apply to all off street
parking spaces in all of the zoning districts of the city except the MU-
1 downtown mixed use zoning district. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-3: SITE PLAN DRAWING NECESSARY:
All applications for a building or an occupancy permit in all zoning districts
must be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and fully dimensioned
indicating the location of off street parking and loading spaces in compliance
with the requirements set forth in this chapter and chapter 21 of this title.
All site plans for single-family homes must provide two (2) off street parking
spaces. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Floor Area: The term "floor area" for the purpose of calculating the
number of off street parking spaces required will be determined on the basis of
the floor area dimensions dedicated to each use within the structure(s).
   B.   Nonconforming Structures: Any nonconforming structure that is destroyed
by any means may be reestablished when permitted by section
10-18-4 of this title. Any use reestablished must retain any existing off
street parking.
   C.   Change Of Use Or Occupancy Of Land: No change of use or occupancy of
land already dedicated to a parking area or parking spaces may be made, nor may
any sale of land or division or subdivision of land be made which reduces area
necessary for parking, parking stalls or parking requirements below the minimum
prescribed by these parking regulations.
   D.   Change Of Use Or Occupancy Of Buildings: Any change of use or occupancy
of any building or buildings including additions requiring additional parking
spaces will not be permitted unless there are furnished additional parking
spaces as required by these parking regulations.
   E.   Calculating Space:
      1.   When determining the number of off street parking spaces results in
a fraction, each fraction over one-half (1/2) will constitute another space.
      2.   If a structure contains two (2) or more uses, the sum of the
required spaces for each use will be used for determining the total number of
off street parking spaces required. For shared parking facilities, refer to the
stated standards as provided later in this chapter.
   F.   Design And Construction Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   Minimum Parking Space Size: The minimum parking space size is eight
feet by eighteen feet (8' x 18') except parallel parking stalls shall be twenty
two feet (22') in length and accessible stalls must meet the size requirements
of the building code.
      2.   Parking Spaces Within Structures: Off street parking spaces may be
provided within the principal building or another structure or structures on
the same lot. Should any building or structure providing required parking
spaces be converted to another use, parking spaces equal to those lost in the
conversion of the building must be replaced in accordance with this title.
      3.   Circulation: Except for single-family, two-family and attached
single-family dwellings, parking spaces must be designed so that circulation
between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot and
does not depend upon a public street or alley.
      4.   Compliance: Except in the case of single-family, two-family and
attached single-family dwellings, parking areas and their aisles must be
developed in compliance with recognized standards approved by the zoning
administrator.
      5.   Surfacing: Except in the case of farm dwellings and operations,
seasonal recreational uses, and residential uses in the TZ and RLD-0 district,
driveways and parking stalls must be surfaced with asphalt or concrete. In
industrial zones, driveways and parking stalls may be surfaced with gravel,
crushed concrete, or other materials equivalent in controlling dust and
drainage, as approved by the city engineer, and subject to the approval of a
grading plan that must be submitted to the city engineer. Plans for surfacing
and drainage of driveways and stalls for five (5) or more vehicles must be
submitted to the city engineer for review and the final drainage plan will be
subject to his written approval. At any time an improvement is made which
increases the number of off street parking spaces, all nonconforming surfacing
of parking areas or driveways must be brought to full compliance with this
chapter.
      6.   Pavement Marking Of Parking Spaces: Except for single-family, two-
family and attached single-family dwellings, all parking stalls must be marked
with white or yellow painted lines not less than four inches (4") wide or blue
lines as required for accessible parking.
      7.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
must be hooded and so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining
property, abutting residential uses and public rights of way and be in
compliance with section
10-19-19 of this title.
      8.   Required Screening: All open off street parking areas of five (5) or
more spaces must be screened and landscaped from abutting residential districts
in compliance with sections
10-19-17 and
10-19-18 of this title.
      9.   Driveway Turnarounds: In the case of single-family, two- family, and
attached single-family dwellings, which front on streets designated as
collector, minor arterial, intermediate arterial and principal arterial by the
city's comprehensive plan, the installation of a vehicle turnaround space,
immediately adjacent to the access driveway is permitted. Said space is to be
no larger than ten feet (10') wide and fifteen feet (15') in length. Where
possible, said space must be located away from the principal structure and must
be no closer than twenty feet (20') from the street surface. Said space is not
to be utilized for parking purposes. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-5: MAINTENANCE:
It is the responsibility of the owner of the principal use, uses or buildings
to maintain the parking space, driveways, striping and required screening.
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-6: LOCATION:
All off street parking spaces will be regulated as follows:
   A.   Ownership And Location: Off street parking spaces required by this
chapter must be on the same lot under the same ownership as the principal use
being served except as otherwise allowed in this title.
   B.   Access: Parking layouts which require backing onto a street to exit a
parking space will not be permitted.
      1.   Exception: Single-family, two-family, and attached single- family
dwellings.
   C.   Setbacks: Off street parking spaces, whether required by section
10-20-9 of this chapter or not, may not be located in required front yards in
residentially zoned districts.
      1.   Exception: Single-family, two-family, and attached single- family
dwellings may have off street parking spaces in excess of those required by
this chapter located in a required front yard. Single-family dwellings
constructed prior to January 1, 1992, with a single stall garage and a side
yard setback of less than ten feet (10') may construct an additional twelve
feet (12') of driveway width within the required front yard to meet the
required off street parking.
   D.   Location Of Spaces; Surfacing: Required off street parking areas for
one- and two-family uses shall be in the rear yard, side yards, garage, carport
and upon a defined driveway. A parking space in excess of that specifically
required by this title may be located in an area not to exceed twelve feet
(12') in width abutting the driveway on one side only in the front yard. The
parking area designated in the front yard abutting the driveway shall be
surfaced with either concrete, asphalt or in cases of existing gravel
driveways, gravel may be used for such additional parking.
   E.   Enforcement: Violations may be enforced through issuance of citations.
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-7: USE OF REQUIRED AREA:
Required off street parking spaces in any district may not be utilized for open
storage, sale or rental of goods, repair work, storage of inoperable vehicles
and/or storage of snow other than that which has accumulated on that lot. (Ord.
2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-8: ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES:
Accessible parking spaces must be provided in accordance with the state
building code. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
10-20-9: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
The following minimum number of off street parking spaces must be provided and
maintained by ownership, easement and/or lease for and during the life of the
following uses. Other uses not specifically mentioned herein or unique cases
shall be determined on an individual basis by the zoning administrator. Factors
to be considered in such determination shall include (without limitation) size
of buildings, type of use, number of employees, expected volume and turnover of
customer traffic and expected frequency and number of delivery or service
vehicles.
Use Minimum Number Of
    Off Street Parking Spaces
Use                                      Minimum Number Of
                                         Off Street Parking Spaces
Banks                                    3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                         floor area
                                         At minimum 2 spaces plus at least 1
Boarding house                           parking space for each person for whom
                                         accommodations are provided for
                                         sleeping
                                         2 parking spaces for each alley, plus
Bowling alley                            additional spaces as may be required
                                         for related uses contained within the
                                         principal structure
                                         8 off street parking spaces, plus 1
Bus terminal or taxi terminal            additional space for each 800 square
                                         feet of floor area over 1,000 square
                                         feet
                                         Requirement is per parking plan
Campus organizations                     specified in the conditional use
                                         permit
Car wash:                                 
 Automatic drive-through services       80 feet of stacking space for each
                                         drive-through
 Motor fuel station car wash            0 in addition to that required for the
                                         station
 Self-service                           A minimum of 1 space
                                         1 space for each 250 square feet of
Community centers, health clubs,         floor area for community centers,
libraries, museums                       health clubs. 1 space for each 500
                                         square feet of floor area for
                                         libraries and museums
Dormitories                              1 space for each 3 residents
                                         1 parking space for each 75 square
                                         feet of gross floor area of service
Drive-in and fast food restaurants       and dining area. Additionally, 100
                                         feet of stacking space must be
                                         provided for each drive- through aisle
                                         1 space for each 2 drive-in units plus
Drive-in banks                           drive aisle stacking space of 40 feet
                                         for each drive-in unit
Elderly (senior citizen) housing         Reservation of area equal to 1 parking
                                         space per unit
                                         1 space for each 2 patient beds
                                         (excluding bassinets); loading and
Hospitals                                unloading space for hospital
                                         ambulances and similar vehicles are
                                         not included in the spaces required
Industrial, manufacturing, fabricating,  1 space for each employee on maximum
or processing of a product or material   shift
Motels, motor hotels, hotels             1 space per each rental unit plus 1
                                         additional space for each 10 units
                                         3 parking spaces for motor fuel
Motor fuel station and auto repair       stations. For auto repair, 2 spaces
                                         for each repair stall and 1 space for
                                         each employee on maximum shift
                                         1 1/2 spaces per efficiency unit; 2
                                         spaces for 1 and 2 bedroom units; and
                                         21/2 spaces for 3 or more bedroom
                                         units. Spaces required are in excess
                                         of those accessible parking stalls
Multiple-family dwellings                required by state or federal law. No
                                         off street parking space may be used
                                         to meet the parking space requirements
                                         of this title if a separate fee is
                                         charged to the tenant for the use of
                                         the space over and above the basic
                                         rent for the dwelling unit
Office buildings, professional offices,  3 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
medical and dental clinics               floor area
Post office                              1 space for each 400 square feet of
                                         floor area
Religious institutions/group assembly/   At least 1 parking space for each 5
membership organizations                 seats of the main assembly hall
Restaurants, cafes, private clubs        At least 1 space for each 75 square
serving food and/or drinks, bars, on-    feet of floor area of dining and bar
sale nightclubs                          area
Retail sales and service business with   2 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
50 percent or more of gross floor area   floor area devoted to public sales or
devoted to storage, warehouse and/or     service plus 1 space for each 1,000
industry                                 square feet of storage area
Retail stores, shopping centers and      2 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
service establishments, boat and marine  feet of floor area devoted to sales or
sales and repair, garden supply stores,  service
building materials sales in a structure
                                         4 spaces plus 1 for each 4 beds for
                                         which accommodations are offered and 1
Sanatoriums, convalescent home, rest     space designated for emergency
home, nursing home or daycare centers    vehicles. For daycare centers, 2
                                         spaces plus 1 space for every staff
                                         member on maximum shift
School, public or private, elementary    At least 1 parking space for each
and junior high                          classroom plus 1 additional space for
                                         each 50 student capacity
School, public or private, high school   At least 1 parking space for each 7
through college                          students based on design capacity plus
                                         1 for each classroom
Single-family, two-family, and single-   2 spaces per unit
family dwelling units
                                         1 space for each 4 seats, or, if
                                         patrons or spectators occupy benches,
Theaters, civic centers, auditoriums,    pews or other similar seating
stadiums, sports arenas or similar uses  facilities, the number of seats will
                                         be based on 1 seat for each 22 inches
                                         of bench or pew length
                                         1 space for each 4 seats or, if
                                         patrons occupy benches, pews or other
Undertaking establishments               similar seating facilities, the number
                                         of seats will be based on 1 seat for
                                         each 22 inches of bench or pew length
                                         1 space for each 3,000 square feet of
Warehousing, storage or handling of bulk floor area and 1 space for each
goods                                    company owned truck (if not stored
                                         inside principal building)
 
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019)
10-20-10: SHARED PARKING FACILITIES:
Parking spaces required under this section may be provided cooperatively for
two (2) or more uses in a development or for two (2) or more individual uses,
subject to the requirements of this section. This section shall not apply to
residential uses.
   A.   Cooperative Parking: Off street parking requirements of a given use may
be met with off site, off street parking facilities of another use when, and
if, all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The off site, off street parking facilities are within three hundred
feet (300') of the property;
      2.   The minimum off street parking demands of the individual uses, as
determined by this chapter, are such that the total parking demand of all the
uses at any one time is less than the total parking stalls required;
      3.   Requirements of the zoning district are met;
      4.   A properly drawn legal agreement, executed by the parties concerned
for joint use of off street parking facilities, and applicable for a minimum of
twenty (20) years, shall be duly approved by the city attorney and recorded
with the Clay County recorder. Should the agreement expire or otherwise
terminate, the use for which the off site parking was provided shall be
considered nonconforming and any and all approvals shall be subject to
revocation. Continuation or expansion of the use shall be prohibited unless the
use is brought into compliance with the parking regulations of this chapter;
and
      5.   An application for cooperative parking shall be submitted to the
zoning administrator by the owner of the land area to be included within the
cooperative parking plan, the owner(s) of all structures that exist on such
land, and all parties having a legal interest in such land area or structures.
The application shall include plans showing the location of the uses or
structures for which off street parking facilities are required, the location
of the off street parking facilities, and the schedule of times used by those
sharing common parking area;
      6.   The parking lot is to be used only for the parking of passenger
automobiles of employees, customers or guests of the person or firm controlling
and operating the lot, said person to be responsible for its maintenance;
      7.   The parking lot is not to be used for sales, repair work, storage of
junk vehicles, or servicing of any kind;
      8.   Reasonable access from off site parking facilities to the use being
served must be provided;
      9.   No advertising sign or material is to be located on the property
where the parking lot is located;
      10.   All parking is to be kept back of the setback building line by
barriers unless otherwise specified in this title or as specifically authorized
by the council;
      11.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the site used for
meeting the off site parking requirements of this title must be under the same
ownership as the principal use being served or under public ownership;
      12.   Any use which depends upon off site parking to meet the
requirements of this title must maintain ownership and parking utilization of
the off site location until such time as on site parking is provided or a site
in closer proximity to the principal use is acquired and developed for parking.
   B.   Shared Parking: Developments that contain a mix of uses on the same
parcel or a unified development with abutting parcels may reduce the amount of
required parking if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The off street parking spaces provided must equal at least seventy
five percent (75%) of the minimum off street parking spaces required for the
individual uses; and
      2.   A properly drawn legal agreement, executed by the parties concerned
for joint use of off street parking facilities, and applicable for a minimum of
twenty (20) years, shall be duly approved by the city attorney and recorded
with the Clay County recorder. Should the agreement expire or otherwise
terminate, the use for which the off site parking was provided shall be
considered nonconforming and any and all approvals shall be subject to
revocation. Continuation or expansion of the use shall be prohibited unless the
use is brought into compliance with the parking regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-27-2014)
CHAPTER 21
OFF STREET LOADING
SECTION:
10-21-1: Purpose
10-21-2: Location
10-21-3: Surfacing
10-21-4: Accessory Use; Parking And Storage
10-21-5: Screening
10-21-6: Requirements And Size Of Loading Berths
10-21-1: PURPOSE:
The regulation of loading spaces in these zoning regulations is to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public right of way so as to promote the safety and
general welfare of the public, by establishing minimum requirements for off
street loading and unloading from motor vehicles in accordance with the
specific and appropriate utilization of various parcels of land or structure.
(Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-21-2: LOCATION:
   A.   Off street: All required loading berths shall be off street and located
on the same lot as the building or use to be served.
   B.   Distance From Intersection: All loading berth curb cuts shall be
located at a minimum fifty feet (50') from the intersection of two (2) or more
street rights of way. This distance shall be measured from the property line.
   C.   Distance From Residential Use: No loading berth shall be located closer
than one hundred feet (100') from a residential district unless within a
structure.
   D.   Prohibited In Front Yards: Loading berths shall not occupy the required
front yard setbacks.
   E.   New Loading Berths: New loading berths added to an existing structure,
where the loading berth is located at the front or at the side of the building
on a corner lot, shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Pedestrians: Loading berths shall not conflict with pedestrian
movement.
      2.   Visibility: Loading berths shall not obstruct the view of the public
right of way from off street parking access.
      3.   General Compliance: Loading berths shall comply with all other
requirements of this title.
   F.   Traffic Interference: Each loading berth shall be located with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or public alley in a manner
which will cause the least interference with traffic.
   G.   Reduction Of Existing Loading Spaces: Loading spaces existing upon the
effective date of this chapter may not be reduced in number or size unless the
number or size exceeds the requirements in this chapter for a new use.
   H.   Change Of Use Or Occupancy Of Land: No change in the use of or
occupancy of land dedicated to loading space may be made nor may any sale of
land, division of land, or subdivision of land occur which will reduce a
loading space below the minimum prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-
2005)
10-21-3: SURFACING:
All loading berths and accessways shall be hard surfaced (not including gravel)
to control the dust and drainage according to a plan submitted to and subject
to the approval of the city engineer. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-21-4: ACCESSORY USE; PARKING AND STORAGE:
Any space allocated as a required loading berth or access drive shall not be
utilized for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or snow and shall not be
included as part of the space requirements to meet the off street parking
requirements. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-21-5: SCREENING:
Except in the case of multiple-family dwellings, all loading areas must be
screened and landscaped from abutting and surrounding residential uses in
compliance with chapter 19 of this title. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
10-21-6: REQUIREMENTS AND SIZE OF LOADING BERTHS:
The need for a loading berth or berths and the size requirements of these
berths shall be determined on a case by case basis by the building official of
the city. Factors to be considered in such determination shall include size of
building, type of anticipated use, number of employees, expected volume of
customer traffic and expected frequency and number of delivery or service
vehicles. No off street loading requirements shall be required in the downtown
zoning district. (Ord. 2004-40, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 22
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-22-1: Purpose
10-22-2: Definitions
10-22-3: Signs Generally
10-22-4: Signs Allowed Without A Permit
10-22-5: Prohibited Signs
10-22-6: Signs Requiring Permits
10-22-7: On Premises Signs
10-22-8: Off Premises Signs
10-22-9: Portable Signs
10-22-10: Nonconforming Signs
10-22-11: Administration Of Sign Permits
10-22-12: Substitution
10-22-13: Conditional Use Requirements
10-22-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the effective use of signs
as a means of communication; to maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment,
and the community's ability to attract sources of economic development and
growth; to eliminate physical and visual clutter; to improve pedestrian and
traffic safety; to minimize the possible adverse effects of signs on nearby
public and private property; and to enable the fair and consistent enforcement
of these sign regulations. It is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to
regulate the message displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of
this chapter to regulate any building design or any display not defined as a
sign, or any sign which cannot be viewed from outside a building. (Ord. 2007-
25, 10-1-2007)
10-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms shall apply:
ABANDONED SIGN: Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which remains
without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a period of one
year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Signs applicable to a
business temporarily suspended because of a change in ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of one year or more. Any sign remaining after demolition of
a principal structure shall be deemed to be abandoned.
AWNING: A rooflike cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal or glass designed and
intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative embellishment, and
which projects from a wall or roof of a structure primarily over a window,
walk, or door.
AWNING SIGN: A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning.
BANNER: A flexible material on which copy or graphic may be displayed.
CABINET SIGN: Any wall sign that is not of channel or individually mounted
letter construction.
CANOPY: A rooflike cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a driveway.
CANOPY SIGN: A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of an attached or
freestanding canopy.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual input.
COMMERCIAL SPEECH: Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
DISPLAY SURFACE: Unless otherwise defined in this chapter, the entire area
within a single, continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the sign
face, including any material forming an integral part of the background of the
display used to differentiate the sign from the background structure. It does
not include any structural elements, such as the base, framing, or decorative
roofing, provided there is no advertising copy on such features. For signs
consisting of individual letters, figures, or symbols, the sign area shall be
that area enclosed with the smallest rectangle needed to completely encompass
all letters, figures or symbols. Only one side of a double face or V-type sign
structure shall be used in computing total surface area, provided the maximum
angle between faces of double faced or V-type signs is forty five degrees
(45°).
DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN: Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have
movement or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent
movement or change is in the display, the sign structure, or any other
component of the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology
or method allowing the sign face to change the image without having to
physically or mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also
includes any rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated
display and any display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights
manipulated through digital input, “digital ink” or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
FRAME: A complete, static display screen on a dynamic display sign.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to the
ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by a solid
base (monument sign), one or more columns, poles, or braces placed in or upon
the ground.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign characterized by the use of artificial light, either
projecting through its surface(s), internally illuminated, reflecting off its
surface(s), or externally illuminated.
MANSARD ROOF: A type of roof that has two (2) slopes on each of the four (4)
sides of a building.
MARQUEE SIGN: See definition of canopy sign.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign placed on a solid base where the entire bottom of the
sign is affixed to the ground and extends a minimum of one foot (1') above the
ground.
MULTIPLE-TENANT SIGN: A freestanding sign identifying a multiple occupancy
development.
MULTIPLE-TENANT SITE: Any property or business site that contains more than one
business.
NEW DEVELOPMENT OR REDEVELOPMENT SIGN: A temporary sign that identifies the
name and/or design of a new development, subdivision, business or professional
firm involved with the financing or construction of a project and may or may
not display contact information.
NONCOMMERCIAL SPEECH: Dissemination of messages not classified as commercial
speech which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning political,
religious, social, ideological, opinion, public service and informational
topics.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which exists prior to the adoption of this section
and does not conform to the requirements herein.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign that presents a message or displays products that
are unrelated to the site upon which the sign is located.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign erected, maintained, or used in the outdoor
environment for the purpose of displaying messages relating to the use of the
property, the products sold on the property, or the sale or lease of the
property on which it is displayed, including a shared sign for properties
within a development that is located on any lot within the development. This
does not exclude noncommercial messages.
PARAPET (WALL): That portion of building wall that rises above the roof level.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a building
or building surface. Portable signs shall include, but are not limited to:
signs constructed so as to be movable, either by skids, wheels, truck, or other
conveyance; any sign which does not have a permanent foundation or is otherwise
permanently fastened to the ground or building; signs on vehicles and equipment
with or without sound equipment, and cloth signs or banners. For a sign
transported on a trailer, the removal of the wheels or undercarriage does not
place the sign in another category, nor does the anchoring of the sign by means
of concrete blocks, sandbags, or other types of temporary anchors.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign that is attached to or projects
more than twelve inches (12") from a building face or wall or from a structure
whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
PUBLIC SIGN: A sign erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post a
legal notice, identify public property, convey public information, and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
ROOF: The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure, the structural makeup of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction and roof covering sections of the Uniform
Building Code.
ROOF SIGN: A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof portion of a
building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building and which
is wholly or partially supported by such a building. Signs attached to the
lower slope of a roof or attached to a parapet wall above a flat roof are
considered wall signs. Signs on mansard or canopy roofs are considered wall
signs.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, figures, numerals, emblems, devices, structures,
designs, trade names, or trademarks which are used to designate an individual,
a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a commodity or
product, or an announcement, message or visual communication that is legible to
a person of ordinary eyesight (with vision adequate to pass a State driver's
license exam) standing at ground level at a location on the public right-of-way
or on other private property. This definition includes the structure or the
face on which a sign message is displayed.
SIGN HEIGHT: Height measurements are taken from the average finish grade below
the sign to the highest point.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign that is attached to the underside of a horizontal plane
or arm that supports it.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign intended for a temporary use or which is not permanently
mounted and is intended for a designated period of time. Unless otherwise
defined as a "portable sign", any sign, banner, pendant, valance, or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard,
wallboard or other light materials, and any wood or metal sign which does not
have a permanent foundation and is not otherwise permanently fastened to the
ground, and which is erected or displayed for a limited period of time shall be
considered a temporary sign.
WALL SIGN: Any sign, other than a projecting sign, that is attached to or
painted on any wall of a building and projects from the plane of the wall
twelve inches (12") or less. This definition shall not include freestanding
walls.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message
intended to be visible to and readable from the public right-of-way or other
private property. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007; amd. Ord. 2017-16, 11-27-2017; Ord.
2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-22-3: SIGNS GENERALLY:
   A.   The foundation base and posts of all signs may not be located upon City
property or rights-of-way unless an encroachment in right-of-way permit has
been granted as outlined in section
8-2-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-13, 7-25-2016)
   B.   No part of any sign or projection may protrude over the public right-
of-way within six feet (6') of the actual or proposed curb line. Signs,
marquees, awnings, and similar projections may project over the right-of-way a
maximum of six feet (6'), provided no part is within six feet (6') of the curb
line or less than eight feet (8') above the sidewalk or the average grade at
property line where no sidewalk is in place. If the street is widened, the sign
shall be moved back at the owner's expense to maintain the six foot (6')
distance of the curb. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007)
   C.   Sign placement must meet traffic visibility standards outlined in
section
10-19-16 of this title. No part of any sign or projection may be erected within
ten feet (10') of a driveway. (Ord. 2018-13, 11-13-2018)
   D.   All sources of artificial light other than streetlights shall be fixed,
directed or designed so as not to measurably increase the amount of light to
any abutting residential lot per section
10-19-19 of this title.
   E.   All sign installations shall conform to Minnesota Department of
Transportation and Federal aviation authorities wherever applicable.
   F.   It is the obligation of the installer to check for any or all
underground utilities or services before excavating for sign foundations.
   G.   All signs and sign structures must be kept in good repair and in a
proper state of maintenance, including, but not limited to, replacing lamps,
replacing ballast in freestanding signs, replacing transformers in building
identification signs, painting the pole of freestanding signs and the cabinet
of freestanding or wall mounted signs, replacing or repairing the sign face,
replacing trim, and replacement of sign fasteners. If the Zoning Administrator
finds that a sign is not in a proper state of repair, the City may, after
thirty (30) days' written notification, repair, modify, or remove the sign and
specially assess the charges for said work against the property owner.
   H.   All signs must comply with State Building Code requirements.
   I.   Setback measurement is taken from the nearest edge of the sign standard
to the nearest property line adjacent to a public street. Height measurements
are taken from the average finish grade below the sign to the highest point.
The height limitation does not apply to wall mounted signs, except that roof
mounted or wall mounted signs extending beyond the roof of a structure must
comply with the height requirement. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007)
10-22-4: SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.   Signs shall be allowed in all zoning districts without a permit,
provided:
      1.   If illuminated, the sign must be lit so that the light source is
directed away from adjoining residences and the sign does not measurably
increase light on nearby properties or public right- of-way.
      2.   Unless otherwise indicated or required by government bodies, no more
than one exempt sign is allowed per street frontage of a property.
Exception: All noncommercial signs of any size and of any number may be posted
in any manner on private property during regular and special Citywide elections
and State primary and State general elections, from forty six (46) days before
the election until ten (10) days following the election. For purposes of this
section, the terms "regular and special Citywide elections" are defined as
those elections provided for in chapter 4 of the Moorhead City Charter.
      3.   The sign does not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
Exception: All noncommercial signs of any size and of any number may be posted
in any manner on private property during regular and special Citywide elections
and State primary and State general elections, from forty six (46) days before
the election until ten (10) days following the election. For purposes of this
section, the terms "regular and special Citywide elections" are defined as
those elections provided for in chapter 4 of the Moorhead City Charter.
Exception: A residential subdivision may have a noncommercial, informational
identification sign at each entrance that does not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in display surface area. (Ord. 2012-2, 2-27-2012)
      4.   The changing of the display surface only of an existing sign,
provided there are no changes to the size, frame or support.
      5.   Any sign not legible to a person of ordinary eyesight (with vision
adequate to pass a State driver's license exam) standing at ground level at a
location on the public right-of-way or on other private property.
      6.   Public signs, including signs on mass transit vehicles.
   B.   Exemption from the permit process shall not be construed as relieving
the owner of the sign from responsibility of its erection and maintenance, and
its compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any other law or
ordinance regulating the same. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007)
10-22-5: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   The following signs shall be prohibited, and may neither be erected nor
maintained:
      1.   Signs that have broken supports or are overgrown with vegetation.
      2.   All signs, including supports, frames, and embellishments, that are
located within a public right-of-way if they do not meet the regulations in
subsection 10-22-3B of this chapter, and signs that are located on public
property other than right-of-way and/or are attached, affixed, or painted on
any utility pole, light standard, utility box or pedestal, tree, rock, or other
natural object located within the public right-of-way or on public property,
unless approved by the City Council in accordance with section
8-1-3 of this Code. The City may at any time and without notice impound
unauthorized signs that have been installed on public property or within public
right-of-way or easement.
      3.   Any sign which constitutes a hazard to traffic including, but not
limited to, signs located within thirty feet (30') of the intersection of curb
lines of an intersection, if it would impede vision between a height of two
feet (2') and eight feet (8').
      4.   Signs that block entrances or exits to buildings.
      5.   Any sign, signal, marking or device that purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or emergency vehicle signal, or that attempts to direct the movement
of traffic or that obscures or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal.
      6.   Any sign that creates or causes interference with the operations of
radio or electronic facilities at the airport or with radio or electronic
communications between the airport and aircraft, makes it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and other lights, results in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, or otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of
aircraft.
      7.   All other signs, as defined in section
10-22-2 of this chapter, that are not expressly exempt or expressly permitted
under this chapter. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007)
10-22-6: SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS:
   A.   Application: Signs other than those listed in section
10-22-4 of this chapter must have a City permit prior to being erected,
altered, reconstructed, maintained or moved in the City. The content of the
sign shall not be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve or
deny a sign permit. Applications for signs shall be submitted on forms provided
by the City, be accompanied by the specified fee and shall be addressed to the
issuing authority.
   B.   Permit Requirements: A permanent sign permit must be obtained from the
City of Moorhead Planning Division prior to placement, in accordance with
provisions in section
10-22-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-25, 10-1-2007)
10-22-7: ON PREMISES SIGNS:
On premises signs require a permit regulated by this chapter and as follows:
P      Permitted Use
CU      Conditional Use Permit
Blank      Prohibited
   ON PREMISES SIGNS AND TEMPORARY SIGNS
  Zoning Districts
  CC:
  Community                                                        RMD:
  Commercial LI: Light  P: Public                                  Residential
  MU-3:      Industrial Open Space    MU-1: Downtown MU-2:         Medium
  Commercial HI: Heavy  INS:          Center Mixed   Neighborhoo d Density
  Mixed Use  Industrial Institutional Use            Mixed Use     RHD:
  MU-4:                                                            Residential
  Gateway                                                          High Density
  Mixed Use
                                                                          Zoning Districts
                                                                          CC:                                                           RMD:
                                                                          Community                                                     Residential
                                                                          Commercial LI: Light  P: Public     MU-1:                     Medium
                                                                          MU-3:      Industrial Open Space    Downtown      MU-2:       Density
                                                                          Commercial HI: Heavy  INS:          Center Mixed  Neighborhoo RHD:
                                                                          Mixed Use  Industrial Institutional Use           d Mixed Use Residential
                                                                          MU-4:                                                         High
                                                                          Gateway                                                       Density
                                                                          Mixed Use
Freestanding:                                                                                                                        
                                                                          Each lot shall be allowed a minimum of 1
                                                                          freestanding sign regardless of the length of its             1 per
                                                                          frontage, and a maximum of 1 freestanding sign    1 monument  primary
 Quantity                                                                (pylon or monument) for every 300' of street      sign only   residential
                                                                          frontage. For lots with frontage on more than 1               structure
                                                                          street, each frontage shall be calculated
                                                                          separately.
 Height (based on distance from property line 1):                        Maximum Sign Height                 Multi- Single             
                                                                                                              Tenant Tenant
    0 - 25'                                                           25'
    25 - 100'                                                         35'                                 40'    25'    7'          7'
    More than 100'                                                    50'
     Within 400' of interstate ROW (no setback from property line)   70'                                                         
                                                                          Greater of:
                                                                             • 3 sq. ft. per linear foot
                                                                             • 40% of front wall of building
                                                                          Lots of intersecting streets or with
                                                                          frontage on 2 parallel streets are allowed
                                                                          150% of the total allowable sign area,
                                                                          with no more than 100% on any 1 street.    100
   Area                                                                For developments containing several        sq.    80 sq. ft.  32 sq. ft.
                                                                          buildings or businesses, a common signage  ft.
                                                                          plan for the development shall be
                                                                          submitted for approval. Each development
                                                                          may have a shared sign on any lot within
                                                                          the development if the total number of
                                                                          signs and the sum of allowed square
                                                                          footage for all properties are not
                                                                          exceeded.
Attached to structure (i.e., awning, canopy, wall, projecting, roof and/                                                           
or suspended signs):
 Quantity                                                                Minimum of 1 per lot with a maximum        
                                                                          of 1 per 20' length of wall area
 Area:
    Percent of wall area upon which sign is affixed on primary structu10%                                 10%    5%     10%
    Percent of accessory structure (i.e., canopy over gas pumps) wall 50%                                 50%    50%    10%
  area upon which sign is affixed
 
 
         Zoning Districts
         CC:
         Community                                                 RMD:
         Commercial LI: Light  P: Public     MU-1:                 Residential
         MU-3:      Industrial Open Space    Downtown  MU-2:       Medium
         Commercial HI: Heavy  INS:          Center    Neighborhoo Density
         Mixed Use  Industrial Institutional Mixed Use d Mixed Use RHD:
         MU-4:                                                     Residential
         Gateway                                                   High Density
         Mixed Use
                                             All lighting shall be directed as
Lighting                                     to not measurably increase light
                                             on adjacent property or public
                                             ROW.
Dynamic
display  CU 2       CU2        CU2           CU2       CU2               
signs:
 
Note:
   1.    Height limitations do not apply to wall mounted signs, except that
roof mounted signs or wall mounted signs extending beyond the roof of a
structure must comply with the sign height requirement.
   2.   See
10-22-13.
(Ord. 2017-16, 11-27-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-22-8: OFF PREMISES SIGNS:
Off premises signs require a sign permit regulated by this chapter and as
follows:
 
                  Zoning Districts
                                                         MU-1: Downtown
                                                         Center Mixed Use
                                              LI: Light  MU:2: Neighborhood
                  CC: Community MU-4: Gateway Industrial Mixed Use
                  Commercial    Mixed Use     HI: Heavy  MU-3: Commercial
                                              Industrial Mixed Use
                                                         P: Public Open
                                                         Space
                                                         INS: Institutional
Static or Dynamic
Display Signs     CU 1                       CU 1        
(DDS)
 
Note:
1.   See
10-22-13
(Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
10-22-9: PORTABLE SIGNS:
This section pertains to signs specifically defined as portable in section
10-22-2 of this chapter, and is not meant to include signs described in section
10-22-4 of this chapter that are allowed without a permit. Portable signs
require permits and are allowed only in Downtown, Corridor and Commercial Mixed
Use (MU-1, MU-2 or MU-3), Commercial (NC, CC or RC), Public Facilities (P),
Industrial (LI or HI), and Institutional (INS) Zoning Districts, and are
subject to the following:
   A.   Permit For Portable Signs: Anyone displaying a portable sign shall have
a current permit (see subsection 10-22-11B1 of this chapter). Use of the sign
shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   Portable sign permits shall be limited to a period not to exceed
days specified in the table below at a time at a specified location and upon
expiration shall not be renewed for at least fourteen (14) days. The total
number of days in a calendar year that a portable sign may be at the specified
location is specified in the table below:
 
                                     MU-1 MU-2 MU-3 NC CC RC P INS LI HI
On-premises portable signs:                                   
 7 days up; 28 total days per year  X    X        X      X       
 14 days up; 56 total days per year         X      X  X   X   X  X
Off-premises portable signs:                                  
 7 days up; 14 days total per year  X    X        X      X       
 14 days up; 28 total days per year         X      X  X   X   X  X
 
         a.   Vehicles and equipment that display signage, with or without
sound equipment, may be granted a permit for a specified location for a period
not to exceed three (3) consecutive days, and not to exceed fourteen (14) days
per calendar year per business.
      2.   The portable sign shall be located upon the same parcel for which
the advertisement/notice is intended.
      3.   Portable signs shall be sixty (60) square feet or less in area. The
sign face shall not exceed six feet (6') in height or ten feet (10') in width.
Overall height shall not exceed eight feet (8').
      4.   No portable sign may be placed upon public right-of-way without
consent of the City Council in accordance with section
8-1-3 of this Code.
      5.   No portable sign placed within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an
area zoned for residential use may have blinking, flashing, or fluttering
lights or other illuminating devices that have a changing intensity,
brightness, or color.
      6.   Portable signs must meet the visibility standards in section
10-22-3 of this chapter.
      7.   Only one on-premises portable sign may be placed upon a property at
any given time, except in the case of multiple-tenant sites consisting of six
(6) or more businesses, where two (2) on- premises portable signs will be
allowed on the parcel at any given time.
      8.   Only one off-premises portable sign may be placed upon a property at
any given time but may be collocated with an on- premises portable sign display
period. (Ord. 2018-13, 11-13-2018)
10-22-10: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Signs that were lawful before this chapter was enacted, which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments are considered legal, nonconforming signs.
   B.   Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other signs or uses prohibited elsewhere in
the zoning district.
   C.   Legal nonconforming signs existing on the effective date hereof, or
amendments thereto, may remain, provided such signs are safe and are maintained
so as not to be unsightly and have not been abandoned.
   D.   Nonconforming signs are subject to the following provisions:
      1.   If a legal, nonconforming sign or sign structure is destroyed to an
extent greater than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost as determined
by the City, the owner may, within one hundred eighty (180) days, apply to
repair or reconstruct the sign as existed previously. If no application permit
has been made within one hundred eighty (180) days, the sign shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Should a nonconforming sign or sign structure be moved for any
reason for any distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
      3.   All dynamic display signs, including those that predate this
chapter, shall conform to section
10-22-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-16, 11-27-2017)
10-22-11: ADMINISTRATION OF SIGN PERMITS:
   A.   Permanent Signs:
      1.   Applications For Sign Permits: Applications for permanent signs
shall be submitted on forms provided by the City. Completed applications shall
be accompanied by the specified fee and the following information:
         a.   Address of property where sign will be located.
         b.   Names and addresses of the property owner, sign owner and the
sign installer.
         c.   Drawings showing the design, location, and dimensions of the sign
and sign supports.
         d.   The location, size, and number of all existing signs on the
property, showing which signs will be removed, altered, or relocated.
      2.   Revocation Of Permits: Sign permits shall be revoked if a sign is
found to be in violation of this chapter.
      3.   Common Signage Plan: Prior to issuance of a permanent sign permit on
a new lot or in a new development containing several buildings or businesses, a
common signage plan for the development shall be submitted for approval.
Drawings, sketches, and/or photographs shall be submitted and kept on file to
demonstrate the common signage plan. The common signage plan shall consist of
the following elements:
         a.   Location: Identification of sign locations on buildings and
property.
         b.   Materials: Description of the type of sign and sign materials
including construction materials and proposed lighting, if any.
         c.   Size: Itemization of sign sizes and land area at identified
locations.
         d.   Letter Style: Description of dominant letter style and height to
be used on the signs.
   B.   Portable Signs:
      1.   Permits For Portable Signs: Applications for the placement of
portable signs shall be submitted on City approved forms. The completed
application shall be accompanied by the specified fee and contain the following
information:
         a.   Name and address of the sign owner and sign installer.
         b.   Name and address of the business/activity being advertised.
         c.   Address of the property on which the portable sign is being
placed. (Ord. 2017-16, 11-27-2017)
10-22-12: SUBSTITUTION:
The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this chapter may substitute
noncommercial copy in lieu of any commercial or other noncommercial copy. This
substitution of copy may be made without any additional approval or permitting.
The purpose of this provision is to prevent any inadvertent favoring of
commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or favoring of any particular
noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message. This provision
prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary. (Ord. 2017-16, 11-
27-2017)
10-22-13:   CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS:
The following are approval criteria established for conditional uses identified
within this chapter. These criteria shall be met in order to be approved within
their respective district.
The criteria listed below are applicable where uses are identified in a
particular district as “conditional use”. The provisions also shall be
applicable in guiding conditional use permit applications as defined in chapter
4 of this title.
On Premise Dynamic Display Signs (DDS)
On Premise Dynamic Display Signs (DDS)
Base sign  First see
code       10-22-7 for wall and freestanding sign requirements for quantity, height, area
           1.   No sign may be placed within two hundred feet (200') of a residential use
Location   unless sign is completely blocked by an adjacent structure (measured by a
           straight line from base of sign to closest residential use property line).
          2.   If sign permitted, sign may not face a residential use (i.e., if sign can be
           oriented otherwise, sign may be permitted).
           1.   Signs must meet sign and visibility standards in
Visibility 10-22-3 and
           10-19-16.
Design     1.   DDS: One (1) double-sided frame is permitted per freestanding sign
elements   structure.
          2.   Static: In conjunction with multi-tenant static freestanding signs, only one
           (1) double-sided DDS frame is permitted.
          3.   Sound from signs prohibited.
          4.   Signs may not change lighted display to create a visual nuisance by having
           rapid rotating, revolving, scrolling, flashing, blinking, strobing, etc.
On Premise Dynamic Display Signs (DDS)
Brightness 1.   Sign illumination may not be brighter than reasonably necessary for clear
           and adequate visibility.
           2.   All sources of artificial light other than streetlights shall be fixed,
          directed, or designed so that the source of light is directed away from adjoining
           residences, streets, or sidewalks
           3.   Sign may not be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair the vision of a
          motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or to otherwise interfere with a
           driver’s operation of a motor vehicle.
          4.   Sign may not be of such intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the
           effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or signal.
          5.   New signs from the date of this section shall be equipped with a functioning
           dimming mechanism.
          6.   Signs in MU-1 and MU-3 zones must either be turned off at 10 pm each night
           and turned on no sooner than 8 am or have a set a static message during that time
           It is the obligation of the installer to check for any or all underground
           utilities or services before excavating for sign foundations.
Other      All sign installations shall conform to Minnesota Department of Transportation
           and Federal aviation regulations wherever applicable and receive written
           permission as required.
 
Off Premises Static and Dynamic Display Signs (DDS)
Off Premises Static and Dynamic Display Signs (DDS)
Location/  1.   Not permitted within four hundred feet (400') of a residential use (measured by
Sign Area  a straight line from base of sign to closest residential use property line) unless
           sign is completely blocked by an adjacent structure.
          2.   If permitted, sign may not change lighted display to create a visual nuisance
           by having rapid rotating, revolving, scrolling, flashing, blinking, strobing, etc.
           3.   Inclusive of the border and trim, but exclusive of the base or apron, supports,
          or other structural members, the size of off premises signs shall be limited as
           follows:
             a.   Signs in CC: Community Commercial or LI: Light Industrial along Main Ave SE:
           One hundred fifty square feet (150').
              b.   Signs in CC: Community Commercial, LI: Light Industrial, HI: Heavy
          Industrial and MU-4 along Interstate 94 (I-94): Seven hundred fifty square feet
           (750').
             c.   Signs in MU-4 along Highway 10: Three hundred square feet (300').
             d.   Signs along Highway 75, King of Trails Scenic Byway: Not permitted.
           4.   No two (2) off premises signs may be located closer than two hundred fifty feet
          (250') apart, unless separated by an interstate highway or principal arterial
           (measured by a straight line from base of sign to closest residential use property
           line).
Height     1.   Including support structure, measured from the average finish grade below the
           sign to the highest point of the sign, may not exceed the following limits:
             a.   Thirty five feet (35') where closer than one hundred feet (100') from a
           property line.
             b.   Fifty feet (50') where one hundred feet (100') or more from a property line.
             c.   Sixty feet (60') if on property adjacent to or within one hundred fifty feet
           (150') of the right-of-way of Interstate 94.
             d.   If set back one hundred fifty feet (150') or more from the I-94 right-of-
           way, subsections 1a and 1b of this section shall apply.
Visibility 1.   Signs must meet sign and visibility standards in 10-22-3 and 10-19-16.
Design     1.   DDS: One (1) double-sided frame is permitted per freestanding sign structure.
elements
          2.   Static: In conjunction with multi-tenant static freestanding signs, only one
           (1) double-sided DDS frame is permitted.
          3.   Sound from signs prohibited.
Brightness 1.   Sign illumination may not be brighter than reasonably necessary for clear and
           adequate visibility.
           2.   All sources of artificial light other than streetlights shall be fixed,
          directed, or designed so that the source of light is directed away from adjoining
           residences, streets, or sidewalks.
           3.   Sign may not be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair the vision of a
          motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or to otherwise interfere with a driver’s
           operation of a motor vehicle.
          4.   Sign may not be of such intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the
           effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or signal.
          5.   New signs from the date of this section shall be equipped with a functioning
           dimming mechanism.
           It is the obligation of the installer to check for any or all underground utilities
           or services before excavating for sign foundations.
Other      All sign installations shall conform to Minnesota Department of Transportation and
           Federal aviation regulations wherever applicable and receive written permission as
           required.
(Ord. 2025-01, 2-24-2025)
CHAPTER 23
ADULT USES
SECTION:
10-23-1: Background, Intent And Purpose
10-23-2: Definitions
10-23-3: Location Of Adult Establishments
10-23-4: Existing Adult Establishments
10-23-5: Hours Of Operation
10-23-6: Operation
10-23-7: Enforcement
10-23-1: BACKGROUND, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The Minnesota state attorney general prepared a report entitled "Report
Of The Attorney General's Working Group On Regulation Of Sexually Oriented
Businesses", dated June 6, 1989. The report considered evidence from studies
conducted in Minneapolis and St. Paul and in other cities throughout the
country relating to sexually oriented businesses, also called adult
establishments.
   B.   The attorney general's report, based upon the above referenced studies
and the testimony presented to it, concluded "that sexually oriented businesses
are associated with high crime rates and depression of property values". In
addition, the attorney general's working group ". . . heard testimony that the
character of a neighborhood can dramatically change when there is a
concentration of sexually oriented businesses adjacent to residential
property". The report concluded that:
      1.   Adult uses have an impact on the neighborhoods surrounding them
which is distinct from the impact caused by other commercial uses;
      2.   Residential neighborhoods located within close proximity to adult
theaters, bookstores and other adult uses experience increased crime rates (sex
related crimes in particular), lowered property values, increased transience,
and decreased stability of ownership;
      3.   The adverse impacts which adult uses have on surrounding areas
diminish as the distance from the adult use increases;
      4.   Studies of other cities have shown that among the crimes which tend
to increase either within or in the near vicinity of adult uses are rapes,
prostitution, child molestation, indecent exposure and other lewd and
lascivious behavior;
      5.   The city of Phoenix, Arizona, study confirmed that the sex crime
rate was on the average five hundred percent (500%) higher in areas with
sexually oriented businesses;
      6.   Many members of the public perceive areas within which adult uses
are located as less safe than other areas which do not have such uses;
      7.   Studies of other cities have shown that the values of both
commercial and residential properties either are diminished or fail to
appreciate at the rate of other comparable properties when located in proximity
to adult uses;
      8.   The Indianapolis, Indiana, study established that professional real
estate appraisers believe that an adult bookstore would have a negative effect
on the value of both residential and commercial properties within a one to
three (3) block area of the store;
      9.   The adverse impacts of adult uses are exacerbated when the uses are
located near each other; and
      10.   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate vicinity of
adult uses also compounds the adverse impacts on the neighborhood.
   C.   The Moorhead city council finds that the characteristics of Moorhead
are similar to those of the cities cited by the report when considering the
effects of adult uses.
   D.   The Moorhead city council finds, based upon the report and the studies
cited therein, that adult uses will have secondary effects upon certain
preexisting land uses within the city.
   E.   The Moorhead city council directed that a study be undertaken of the
existing zoning ordinance and other city regulations to address adult uses. The
intent of the study was to determine how the city might reasonably amend the
zoning ordinance to address the concerns raised by the studies cited and to
offer reasonable alternative avenues of expression for the free speech
activities guaranteed by recent supreme court rulings for adult uses.
   F.   The Moorhead city council finds, based on the above cited zoning study,
that adult uses could reasonably be allowed in the light industrial district
and heavy industrial district if separated from certain sensitive land uses, if
those same sensitive land uses are not allowed in the industrial districts, and
if potential adult uses are separated from one another. The city council also
finds that there are a reasonable number of distinct locations within the
city's industrial districts where adult uses might locate and meet reasonable
spacing standards from sensitive land uses and from one another. (Ord. 2006-36,
1-2-2007)
10-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
These words shall mean the following in this chapter:
ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS: Any establishment in which an adult use comprises more
than twenty percent (20%) of the floor area of the establishment in which it is
located, or more than twenty percent (20%) of the gross receipts in any month
for the entire business operation, or any business that engages in any adult
use as described in this chapter.
ADULT USE: Any of the activities and businesses described below:
   Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business which provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or
nontransparent, to the body of a patron when such body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
   Bookstore: A building or portion of a building used for the barter, rental
or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records,
audiotape, videotape, motion picture film, or any other form of media if a
substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Cabaret: A building or portion of a building for providing dancing or other
live entertainment, if such dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display, or
depiction of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Car Wash: A wash facility for any type of motor vehicle that allows
employees, agents, independent contractors, or other persons to appear in a
state of partial or total nudity in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
   Companionship Establishment: A companionship establishment which provides
the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion
between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if
such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Health/Sport Club: A health or sport club, if such club is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel where material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Massage Parlor, Health Club: A massage parlor or health club which provides
the services of massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a building with a
capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material if such
material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas". The phrase "used for" in this definition means a regular and
substantial course of conduct and not a one time presentation of such material.
   Miscellaneous: Any establishment, business, or service whose products or
services are substantially or significantly distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major business is the provision, to
customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing
sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
"specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical areas" while
being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled or operated still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a building with a capacity
of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting material which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein. The phrase
"used for" in this definition means a regular and substantial course of conduct
and not a one time presentation of such material.
   Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal activity the sale of
devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
   Sauna: A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion of a building used for
providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of pleasure,
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse
facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts of
conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or
female breast(s); or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007)
10-23-3: LOCATION OF ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Adult establishments may only be located within the light industrial
district and heavy industrial district, and as further regulated in this
chapter.
   B.   No adult establishment may be located less than one thousand feet
(1,000') from the nearest property line of any land in a residential zone or in
a planned unit development zone developed for residential use or an existing
residential use, or of any daycare center, school, establishment with a liquor
license, library, public park, religious institution, playground or other
public recreational facility in any zoning district, whether within the city
limits of Moorhead or not.
   C.   No adult establishment may be located less than five hundred feet
(500') from any other adult establishment, whether within the city limits of
Moorhead or not. Measurements shall be made in a direct line from the property
line of the premises where each use is located. (Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007)
10-23-4: EXISTING ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Within one year of the effective date hereof, any
existing adult establishment shall be in compliance with the location
requirements in section
10-23-3 of this chapter. Existing adult establishments must comply with all
other requirements of this chapter immediately upon its effective date.
   B.   Extension Of Time To Meet Location Requirements: The owner of an
existing adult establishment may apply to the Moorhead city council for an
extension of the one year amortization period described above. Any such
application must be submitted in writing to the city council within thirty (30)
days of the effective date hereof. Failure to submit a timely extension
application is a waiver of the right to request an extension. In order to
receive an extension of time, an applicant must show that the one year
amortization period places an unreasonable burden upon the business and does
not allow the applicant adequate time to recover a reasonable return on the
applicant's investment in the business or property. The applicant has the
burden of proving that the one year amortization period causes a hardship
sufficient to justify an extension of time. An extension will not be longer
than an additional one year. In making its decision whether to grant an
extension, the city council may consider any factor that it deems reasonably
related to the issue, including, but not limited to:
      1.   The length of time that the adult establishment has been in
existence;
      2.   The value of and condition of any structures or improvements on the
property;
      3.   The nature and character of the surrounding neighborhood;
      4.   The amount of the applicant's investment in the business or
property;
      5.   The amount of investment return already realized by the applicant;
and
      6.   The cost of relocating the business. (Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007)
10-23-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult establishment shall be open to the public from the hours of one minute
after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. weekdays and
Saturdays, or before two o'clock (2:00) P.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
on Sundays, or at any time on national holidays. (Ord. 2009-5, 6-22-2009)
10-23-6: OPERATION:
   A.   Off Site Visibility: Any business operating as an adult establishment
shall prevent visibility of its merchandise from streets, sidewalks, parking
lots, or other areas outside the building.
   B.   Entrances: All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits that are not usable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right of way.
   C.   Layout: The layout of any display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, videotapes, or any other material, or any live dancers or
entertainers.
   D.   Illumination: Illumination of the premises exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
   E.   Signs: Signs for adult establishments shall not contain
representational depiction of an adult nature or graphic descriptions of the
adult theme of the operation.
   F.   Access By Minors: No minor shall be permitted on the premises of an
adult establishment. Adult goods or materials may not be offered, sold,
transferred, conveyed, given or bartered to a minor, or displayed in a fashion
that allows them to be viewed by a minor, whether or not the minor is on the
licensed premises.
   G.   Additional Conditions For Adult Cabarets: The following additional
conditions apply to adult cabarets:
      1.   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall be under eighteen
(18) years old.
      2.   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform intended
for that purpose and which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level of
the floor.
      3.   No dancer or performer shall perform any dance or live entertainment
closer than three feet (3') to any patron.
      4.   No dancer or performer shall fondle or caress any patron and no
patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
      5.   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer.
      6.   No dancer or performer shall solicit or receive any pay or gratuity
from any patron. (Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007)
10-23-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The city may enforce any provision of this chapter by mandamus, injunction or
any other appropriate civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-36, 1-2-2007)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose
11-1-2: Scope Of Legal Authority
11-1-3: Coverage And Applications
11-1-4: Conflict
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-1: PURPOSE:
All divisions of land hereafter submitted to the City must fully comply with
the regulations to:
   A.   Provide for and guide the orderly, economic and safe development of
land, urban services and facilities.
   B.   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate and impartial standards for design and construction.
   C.   Provide for the health, safety and general welfare of residents by
requiring the necessary services such as properly designed streets and adequate
wastewater and water service.
   D.   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting from their
construction.
   E.   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters.
   F.   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public health,
safety and general welfare. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-1-2: SCOPE OF LEGAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land
contained herein will apply within the boundaries of the City and within all
unincorporated areas within the State from the City's boundary encompassing
those areas within the Clay County Urban Expansion District as permitted by
Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 462.358. In the event of overlapping
jurisdiction within the prescribed area, the extent of overlapping jurisdiction
will be determined and agreed upon between the City and the other municipality
or municipalities concerned. This title is not intended to repeal, annul or in
any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances
or with restrictive covenants running with the land except those specifically
repealed by or in conflict with this title.
   B.   The City has the power and authority to review, amend and approve
subdivisions of land already recorded in the Office of the County Recorder if
such plats are entirely or partially undeveloped.
   C.   The plat will be considered to be entirely or partially undeveloped if
it meets one (1) or both of the following criteria:
      1.   The plat has been recorded with the County Recorder without prior
approval by the City where approval was required. This applies to all plats
within the corporate limits and all plats filed after February 21, 1973, that
fall within the Clay County Urban Expansion District.
      2.   The plat has been approved by the City and the approval has been
granted more than three (3) years prior to granting a building permit on the
partially or entirely undeveloped land and the subdivision or zoning
regulations for the district in which the subdivision is located have been
changed subsequent to the original final subdivision approval. (Ord. 2017-04,
4-24-2017)
11-1-3: COVERAGE AND APPLICATIONS:
The standards set forth in this title will be generally held as the minimum
applied to developments occurring after its enactment. The City Council has the
option, however, to deviate from the standards set forth herein as part of a
preplanned, coordinated development project processed as a planned unit
development as governed by title 10 of this Code. Moreover, as specified
herein, developer's agreements approved by the City and the applicant may be
utilized to accommodate special situations. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-1-4: CONFLICT:
Whenever there is a difference between minimum standards or dimensions
specified herein and those contained in other official regulations, resolutions
or city code provisions, the most restrictive standards will apply. (Ord. 2004-
41, 1-3-2005)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules Of Word Construction: For the purpose of this title, certain
terms or words used herein will be interpreted as follows:
      1.   The word "person" includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust company or corporation as
well as an individual.
      2.   The singular word includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B.   Words Defined: Except for those words and phrases defined below, the
words and phrases used in this title will be interpreted to be given the
meaning in common usage, so as to give this title its most reasonable
application.
   ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
   APPLICANT: The owner, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in the land proposed to be subdivided.
   ATTORNEY: The attorney employed or retained by the city unless otherwise
stated.
   BWSR: State of Minnesota board of water and soil resources or its successor.
   BIKEWAY: A public right of way or easement across a block or within a block
to provide access for bicyclists and in which a path or trail is installed.
   BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is bounded by streets, or
by a combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right of
way, shorelines of waterways or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOULEVARD: The portion of the street right of way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY: A document prepared by a registered land surveyor
which precisely describes area, dimensions and location of a parcel of land.
   CITY: The city of Moorhead.
   CLERK: The Moorhead city clerk.
   COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN: A comprehensive plan approved by the city,
including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, fiscal
guidelines and maps indicating the general locations recommended for the
various functional classes of land use, places and structures, and for the
general physical development of the city, including any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   CONTOUR MAP: A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. "Contour interval" will mean the
vertical height between contour lines.
   COPY: A print or reproduction made from an original.
   COUNCIL: The city council of Moorhead, Minnesota.
   COUNTY: Clay County, Minnesota.
   DESIGN STANDARDS: Specifications that applicants proposing to subdivide land
must follow when preparing plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among
other things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as
rights of way, blocks, easements and lots.
   DEVELOPMENT: The act of building structures and installing site
improvements.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot other than a corner lot which has a property line
abutting on one street and an opposite property line abutting another
nonintersecting street.
   DRAINAGE COURSE: A watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
   DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
independent residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels or boarding houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building designed with three (3) or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three (3) or more families living
independently of each other. A two-family dwelling (duplex) with an additional
separate rooming unit(s) must be considered and classified as a multiple-family
dwelling.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling unit designed exclusively for occupancy
by one family.
      Attached:   A dwelling which is joined to another at one or more sides by
the sharing of a common wall(s) and which occupies its own lot.
      Detached:    A dwelling unit not attached to another dwelling or
structure or entirely surrounded by open space.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOME: A building of more than two (2) units, each unit
extending from ground to sky and having at least two (2) exposed sides.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2)
families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each. A
two-family dwelling (duplex) with an additional separate rooming unit(s) shall
be considered and classified as a multi-family dwelling.
   EASEMENT: A right granted by the owner of land to another party for specific
limited use of that land.
   ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed or retained by the city unless
otherwise stated.
   FINAL PLAT: A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by Clay County for the
purpose of recording.
   FLOOD RELATED: All flood related definitions in title 10 of this code shall
apply to this title.
   GOVERNING BODY: The Moorhead city council.
   KEY MAP: A small or large scale map which definitively shows the area
proposed to be platted in relation to known geographical features (e.g., town
centers, lakes and streets).
   LOT: A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot must have frontage on an
improved public street or approved private street.
   LOT, AREA: The total land area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT BASE: Lots meeting all specifications in the zoning district prior to
being subdivided into a two-family dwelling.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: An interior lot having frontage on two (2) streets.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
   LOT, INTERIOR: A lot, other than a corner lot, including through or double
frontage lots.
   LOT, WIDTH: The minimum required horizontal distance between the side lot
lines measured at right angles to the lot depth, at the minimum building
setback line. If no setback line is established, the distance between the side
lot lines measured along the public right of way.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION: A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   NATURAL WATERWAY: A natural passageway on the surface of the earth, so
situated and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows
through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area.
   OUTLOT: A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other future use, for which no building permit will
be issued.
   OWNER: An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation,
trust or any other legal entity holding an equitable or legal ownership
interest in the land sought to be subdivided.
   PARCEL: An individual lot or tract of land.
   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Public land and open space in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreational purposes.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A public right of way or easement across or within a block to
provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the installation of
paths or trails.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE: Along a centerline of a street, the change in vertical
elevation in feet and tenths of a foot for each one hundred feet (100') of
horizontal distance, expressed as a percentage.
   PERSON: Any individual or legal entity.
   PLANNER: The Moorhead city planner.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Moorhead planning commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: A detailed drawing or map of a proposed subdivision,
meeting the requirements of this title and in compliance with the comprehensive
plan, submitted to the planning commission and governing body for their
consideration.
   PRIVATE STREET: A street serving as vehicular access to two (2) or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public and is owned by one or
more private parties.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off
street parking area, lot improvement or other facility for which the city may
ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for maintenance and operation, or
which may affect an improvement, for which local government responsibility is
established.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between all owners and holders
of mortgage constituting a restriction on the use of property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners, and providing mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of property value and economic integrity
of any given area.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Land acquired by reservation, dedication, or otherwise
intended for public use, and intended to be occupied or occupied by a street,
trail, railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer or other similar uses.
   SETBACK: The distance between a building and the nearest property line.
   SKETCH PLAN: A conceptual plan to facilitate discussion between the
applicant and city staff regarding a proposed subdivision. The sketch plan may
show the proposed layout of streets, lots, proposed playgrounds and parks, the
100-year flood contour line, zoning, approximate lot sizes, and as much
relevant information as possible.
   STATE: State of Minnesota.
   STREET: A public right of way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, throughway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court or otherwise designated, which has been
dedicated or deeded to the public for public use and which affords principal
means of access to abutting property.
   STREET, WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the face
to face of curb.
   STREETS, COLLECTOR: Those streets intended to provide a balance between
mobility and access, serve moderate traffic volumes, and provide for collection
and distribution of traffic from local streets to streets of higher
classification. Collector streets provide access to neighborhoods and important
travel generators. A limited degree of direct land access is acceptable for
safe and efficient operation.
   STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal or terminals for the safe and convenient reversal of
traffic movement.
   STREETS, LOCAL: Those streets intended to provide direct access to various
land uses. Local streets provide low mobility and serve the lowest traffic
volumes. Typically, the local street is a two (2) lane road.
   STREETS, LOCAL COLLECTOR: Those streets intended to provide a balance
between mobility and access and provide for collection and distribution to
traffic from local streets to streets of higher classification. The local
collector designation is reserved for those streets that function as a
collector street but are projected to serve lower traffic volumes than a
typical collector street based on long term forecasts. A greater degree of
direct access is acceptable for safe and efficient operation. Direct driveway
access to individual properties is discouraged and may be prohibited.
   STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS (FRONTAGE ROAD): Those local streets which are
parallel and adjacent to high volume arterial street and highways; and which
provide access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STREETS, MINOR ARTERIAL: Those streets intended to provide high mobility,
serve large traffic volumes and act as links between various subareas of the
city. Minor arterial streets provide for collection and distribution of traffic
between principal arterials and streets of lower classification. Regulation of
direct access to property is critical to promoting safe and efficient
operation.
   STREETS, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL: Those streets intended to provide very high
mobility, regional connectivity, and serve the largest traffic volumes.
Regulation of direct access to property is critical to promoting safe and
efficient operation.
   STRUCTURE: Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character. Among other things, structures include buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, swimming pools, billboards, and poster
panels.
   SUBDIVIDING: The process of dividing land.
   SUBDIVISION: The dividing of an area, parcel or tract of land into two (2)
or more parcels, tracts, lots or long term leasehold interests where the
creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads
or alleys for residential, commercial, industrial or other use or any
combination thereof. This term includes resubdivision and where appropriate to
the context, will relate to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided. Subdivision will apply as outlined herein except for these
separations:
      1.   Where the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will be
twenty (20) acres or larger in size and five hundred feet (500') in width for
residential uses and five (5) acres or larger in size of commercial and
industrial uses;
      2.   Creating cemetery lots;
      3.   Resulting from court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under Minnesota state laws.
   TRACING: A plat or map drawn on transparent paper, film or cloth which can
be reproduced by using regular reproduction procedure.
   USGS: United States geological service.
   ZONING ORDINANCE: Title 10 of this code or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-
2012; Ord. 2012-10, 5-29-2012)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Administration
11-2-2: Amendments
11-2-3: Unapproved Subdivisions
11-2-4: Building Permits
11-2-5: Violations And Penalty
11-2-1: ADMINISTRATION:
This title will be administered by the city council or its designee. (Ord.
2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
The provisions of this title may be amended by the city council following a
public hearing before the planning commission. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-2-3: UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS:
No conveyance of land to which these regulations are applicable should be filed
or recorded if the land is described in the conveyance by metes and bounds or
by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after April 21, 1961,
or to an unapproved plat made after such regulations become effective. The
foregoing provision does not apply to a conveyance if the land described:
   A.   Was a separate parcel of record on April 1, 1945, or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under laws 1945, chapter 287, whichever is
the later, or of the adoption of subdivision regulations pursuant to a home
rule charter; or
   B.   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior to
such time; or
   C.   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half (21/2) acres in
area and one hundred fifty feet (150') in width on January 1, 1966; or
   D.   Was a separate parcel of not less than five (5) acres in area and three
hundred feet (300') in width on July 1, 1980; or
   E.   Is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less than
five (5) acres and having a width of not less than three hundred feet (300')
and its conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into two (2)
or more lots or parcels, any one of which is less than five (5) acres in area
or three hundred feet (300') in width; or
   F.   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less than
twenty (20) acres and having a width of not less than five hundred feet (500')
and its conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel into two (2)
or more lots or parcels, any one of which is less than twenty (20) acres in
area or five hundred feet (500') in width.
In any case in which failure to comply does not interfere with the purposes of
the subdivision regulations the city may waive such compliance pursuant to the
provisions of section
11-3-1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-2-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
No building permit may be issued for any construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, demolition or moving of any building or structure on any lot or parcel
until all the requirements of these regulations have been fully met. (Ord.
2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-2-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Sale Of Lots From Unrecorded Plats: It is a misdemeanor to sell, trade,
or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in conformity
with, any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area located within the
jurisdiction of this title unless the plan, plat or replat has first been
recorded in the office of the county recorder.
   B.   Recording Unapproved Plats: It is unlawful for a person to record in
any public office any plans, plats of land laid out in building lots and
streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use, or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting
on or adjacent thereto, and located within the jurisdiction of this chapter,
unless the same bear thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the
city council.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this title may
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day during which compliance is delayed or such
violation continues or occurs will constitute a separate offense and may be
prosecuted as such. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURES FOR FILING AND REVIEW
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administrative And Minor Subdivisions
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-4: Denial Of Plat
11-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
When in the best interest of the City and in cases of administrative or minor
subdivisions, the platting procedures of this title may be waived in accordance
with the following:
   A.   Administrative Subdivisions: The Planning and Zoning Administrator may
waive the platting requirement and administratively approve a subdivision in
the following instances:
      1.   A boundary adjustment relocating a property line between adjoining
parcels, provided the subdivision does not create a new tax parcel and each
parcel retains sufficient lot size required by title 10 of this Code.
      2.   A split of an existing platted lot to accommodate the separate
ownership of each unit in a single-family attached dwelling, provided the
subdivision does not increase the density beyond the maximum number of units
allowed for that parcel by the zoning ordinance or a developer's agreement
approved by the City Council.
      3.   A combination of two (2) or more contiguous tax parcels into one (1)
parcel of record.
   B.   Minor Subdivisions: The City Council may waive the platting requirement
and approve by resolution a minor subdivision in the following instances:
      1.   A subdivision, other than a division of a single-family attached
dwelling, that contains not more than three (3) splits.
      2.   A subdivision by metes and bounds description which would increase
the density of a tax parcel beyond what is allowed by its zoning
classification.
      3.   Any other subdivision of property by metes and bounds description
which is not defined as an administrative subdivision by subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Approval: Administrative and minor subdivisions may be approved
provided that:
      1.   There is no need for public improvements as a result of the
subdivision;
      2.   The subdivision does not violate any provision of the zoning
ordinance, Comprehensive Plan, or any other State or local ordinance;
      3.   The subdivision does not adversely affect public health, safety, and
general welfare;
      4.   The subdivision is not part of a continuing scheme of lot splitting
for a particular area;
      5.   Any platted lot may be split up to four (4) times through
administrative or minor subdivision;
      6.   A completed City of Moorhead application form, legal description of
the proposed parcels, drawing of the existing and proposed parcels, setback of
existing structures to the proposed property lines, and an explanation of any
encroachments are provided to the City of Moorhead Planning and Zoning
Division. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application Requirements: After the preapplication meeting(s), the
applicant must prepare and file with the City an electronic version and three
(3) large size copies twenty two inches by thirty four inches (22" x 34"),
three (3) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copies, and one (1) reduced
scale, eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") copy of a
preliminary plat and supportive information which is in conformity with the
requirements of section
11-4-1 of this title, complete a City action request form and pay the
appropriate review fee as established by City Council, at least fifteen (15)
working days prior to the regularly scheduled or special Planning Commission
meeting at which it is proposed to be heard.
   B.   Official Application: The applicant must include any City action
request form necessary to zone or rezone the proposed subdivision plat or
development area, and for any anticipated variance(s) from the provisions of
this chapter, as set out in section
11-2-3 of this title. The plat will be considered as being officially submitted
when all of the information requirements are complied with and the appropriate
review fee(s) paid.
   C.   Subdivision Jurisdiction: If the subdivision lies outside the City
limits and within Moorhead's subdivision jurisdiction encompassing those areas
within the Clay County Urban Expansion District and there are no immediate
plans to annex, the City must refer one (1) copy of the preliminary plat to the
appropriate Township Planning Commission or Township Board and one (1) copy of
the preliminary plat to the County Planning Commission for their review and
comment. The applicant or owner may be required to appear at the Township
Planning Commission or Town Board and County Planning Commission. The Township
Planning Commission or Town Board and County Planning Commission are requested
to forward their written comments to the City Planner within forty five (45)
days of receipt of the preliminary plat. (Ord. 2017-04, 4-24-2017)
   D.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the completed application as outlined
in subsection A of this section, the City Planner will set a public hearing for
public review of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission. The hearing
will be held within forty five (45) days of the completed filing of the
application. The applicant and/or their representative(s) must appear at the
public hearing. Notice of the hearing may be a legal or display advertisement
and will consist of a legal property description, description of request and
must be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing.
   E.   Review By Other Commissions, Jurisdictions And/Or Utility Companies:
The applicant will refer copies of the preliminary plat to County, State, or
other municipal jurisdictions, as well as utility companies, for their review
and comment, where appropriate and when required.
   F.   Planning Commission Action: The Planning Commission will report its
findings and make its recommendation to the City Council no later than forty
(40) days after the close of public hearing described in subsection D of this
section. If the Planning Commission has not acted upon the preliminary plat
within forty (40) days following the close of public hearing on such and in
compliance with this chapter, the Council may act on the preliminary plat
without the Planning Commission's recommendation.
   G.   Preliminary Plat Approval: The Planning Commission's approval of the
preliminary plat will not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it
will be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on the
preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat, which will be
submitted to the Planning Commission, at a future date, and subsequent
recommendation forwarded to the City Council for final plat approval and
recording with the County Recorder, upon fulfillment of the requirements of
these regulations and the conditions of conditional approval, if any.
   H.   City Council Action:
      1.   The Council will approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within
one hundred twenty (120) days following the recommendation and report from the
Planning Commission.
      2.   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for such action must be recorded in the proceedings of the Council and
must be transmitted to the applicant. If the preliminary plat is approved, such
approval will not constitute final acceptance of the design and layout.
Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering proposals and other
features and requirements as specified by this chapter to be indicated on the
final plat. The City Council may impose such conditions and restrictions as it
deems appropriate or require such revisions or modifications in the preliminary
plat or final plat as it deems necessary to protect the health, safety,
comfort, general welfare and convenience of the City.
      3.   The City Council reserves the right to decline approval of a
preliminary plat if due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural
features, such as topography, trees and watercourses.
      4.   Following City Council approval of a preliminary plat, the applicant
must submit a final plat to the City Planner, to be reviewed and a
recommendation made by the Planning Commission to the City Council, within
ninety (90) days of preliminary plat approval by the city council unless a
request for time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the city
council. If an extension is not made and the ninety (90) day time line passes,
then approval of the preliminary plat will be considered void.
      5.   If substantial modifications are necessary on an approved
preliminary plat, the plat must be resubmitted for preliminary plat approval.
However, if only minor modifications are necessary, the plat may be submitted
as a final plat. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submittal: After the preliminary plat has been approved, a final plat
must be submitted for review as set forth in the subsections which follow. The
final plat, which must be prepared by a certified land surveyor, will
incorporate all minor corrections, modifications and revisions required by the
city and associated utility agencies, and conform to the approved preliminary
plat. The applicant must complete a city action request form for final plat
approval attaching the appropriate review fee.
   B.   Compliance: All final plats must comply with the provisions of
Minnesota state statutes and requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Review Of A Final Plat:
      1.   The applicant must prepare and file with the city an electronic
version and three (3) large size copies twenty two inches by thirty four inches
(22" x 34"), three (3) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copies, and
one reduced scale eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") copy of
a final plat and supportive information which is in conformity with the
requirements of section
11-4-2 of this title, complete a city action request form and pay the
appropriate review fee as established by city council, at least fifteen (15)
working days prior to the regularly scheduled or special planning commission
meeting at which it is proposed to be heard.
      2.   Upon receipt of the completed application as outlined in subsection
C1 of this section, the city planner must set a public hearing for public
review of the final plat by the planning commission. The hearing will be held
within forty five (45) days of the completed filing of the application. The
applicant and/or their representative(s) must appear at the public hearing.
Notice of the hearing may be a legal or display advertisement and will consist
of a legal property description, description of request and will be published
in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
      3.   The applicant will refer copies of the final plat to county, state
or municipal jurisdictions, as well as utility companies, for their review and
comment, where appropriate and when required.
      4.   Prior to recording of a final plat, the city must have approved the
developer's agreement with the property owner, which controls the installation
of all municipal improvements utility systems, sidewalks and boulevard trees,
and other development issues. Said agreement will require all improvements to
comply with approved engineering standards and applicable regulations.
      5.   The planning commission will report its findings and make its
recommendation to the city council no later than forty (40) days after the
close of public hearing described in subsection C2 of this section. If the
planning commission has not acted upon the final plat within forty (40) days
following the close of public hearing on such and in compliance with this
chapter, the council may act on the final plat without the planning
commission's recommendation.
      6.   The city council must take action on a final plat within sixty (60)
days after receiving the report and recommendation from the planning
commission. If the final plat is not approved by the city council, the reasons
for such action will be recorded in the official proceedings of the city and
will be transmitted to the applicant. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
      7.   Upon receiving final plat approval by the city council the applicant
or his/her agent must, within sixty (60) days, provide the city planner with
all necessary mylars and hard boards for city designated representative
signatures. After all city signatures have been applied to the mylars and hard
boards the applicant will record said plat with the county recorder within
sixty (60) days, or the approved final plat will be considered void unless the
applicant receives an extension from the city planner. Upon delivery of the
final plat to the county recorder, the applicant will be required to ensure
that all applicable fees and taxes are paid. (Ord. 2012-10, 5-29-2012)
      8.   Upon recording of the final plat, the city planner will notify the
applicant or his/her agent of the recording and make available a signed copy of
the plat.
      9.   Upon receiving final plat approval, the applicant or his/her agent
must submit a copy of the plat in electronic format compatible with software in
use by the city at the time of submittal, with the Fargo-Moorhead council of
governments layering scheme. The computerized plat must be referenced as county
coordinates and provide a seamless edge match to the existing city database.
Coordinates of existing plats will be provided by city staff. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-
3-2005)
11-3-4: DENIAL OF PLAT:
The planning commission may recommend denial and the council may deny a
subdivision if it makes any of the following findings:
   A.   Conflicts: That the proposed subdivision is in direct conflict with
adopted applicable general and specific comprehensive plans of the city,
county, or township;
   B.   Physical Characteristics: That the physical characteristics of this
site, including, but not limited to, topography, percolation rate, soil
conditions, susceptibility to erosion and siltation, susceptibility to
flooding, water storage, drainage and retention, are such that the site is not
suitable for the type of development, design or use contemplated;
   C.   Density: That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed
density of development;
   D.   Environmental Damage: That the design of the subdivision or the
proposed improvements are likely to cause substantial environmental damage;
   E.   Public Health: That the design of the subdivision or the type of
improvements are likely to cause serious public health problems;
   F.   Conflict With Easement: That the design of the subdivision or the type
of improvements will conflict with easements of record or with easements
established by judgment of a court;
   G.   Outside Of Boundaries: That the proposed subdivision is outside the
boundaries of the city and;
      1.   The county, township or developer has not certified in writing that
they will assume all responsibility for repair and maintenance of dedicated
streets until annexed to the city; or
      2.   The township or county has not certified in writing that it has the
capacity for and will provide police and fire protection and on site sewer
system inspections to ensure proper installation.
   H.   Flooding Provisions: That the proposed subdivision, its site, or its
design adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the floodway, increases
flood stages and velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway
fringe or within other areas of the city.
   I.   MEQB Policies: The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the
policies of the Minnesota environmental quality board (MEQB), as may be
amended, and could adversely impact critical environmental areas or potentially
disrupt or destroy historic areas which are designated or officially recognized
by the city council in violation of federal and state historical preservation
laws. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 4
PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Preliminary Plat
11-4-2: Final Plat
11-4-3: Certification Required
11-4-4: Metes And Bounds
11-4-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The applicant must prepare and submit a preliminary plat, together with a
completed city action request form and appropriate fee. The preliminary plat
should contain the information set forth in the subsections which follow. Upon
specific request, the city may exempt an applicant from the submission of data
which is not considered relevant to the application:
   A.   Identification And Description:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision; names must not duplicate or be
alike in pronunciation to the name of any plat recorded in the city or begin
with the wording "replat".
      2.   Name of the owner(s) of record, or any agent having control of the
land, and the land surveyor.
      3.   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description of the
property.
      4.   Graphic scale not less than one inch (1") to one hundred feet (100')
for large scale copies, twenty two inches by thirty four inches (22" x 34").
      5.   North point/arrow.
      6.   Date of preparation.
   B.   Existing Conditions:
      1.   Boundary lines to include bearings and distances.
      2.   Location of existing rights of way, recorded easements, parks and
other land dedicated for public use.
      3.   100-year flood elevations, the regulatory flood protection elevation
and boundaries of floodway and flood fringe areas, if known, taking into
consideration the flood insurance study and flood insurance rate map.
   C.   Proposed Subdivision Features:
      1.   Layout of proposed streets showing the right of way widths and
proposed names of streets in conformance with city and county street
identification policies. The name of any street heretofore used in the city or
its environs should not be used unless the proposed street is a logical
extension of an already named street, in which event the same name should be
used.
      2.   Each plat must provide at least two (2) points of entry to adjacent
streets, unless otherwise approved by the city council.
      3.   Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrianways.
      4.   Site(s) dedicated for parks, playgrounds or other public uses to
include size of such dedications.
      5.   Areas, other than streets, alleys, bikeways, pedestrianways and
utility easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
including the size of such area or areas in acres.
      6.   Lot lines, lot numbers and block numbers.
      7.   Lot dimensions.
      8.   Total acreage of proposed plat area.
   D.   Supplementary Information: Any or all of the supplementary information
requirements set forth in this subsection should be submitted separately from
the plat when deemed necessary by the city staff, consultants, advisory bodies
and/or city council to adequately address the application and site in question.
      1.   Grading plan which must include the proposed grading and drainage of
the site, including provisions for storm water detention and drainage.
      2.   Proposed fill, levees, channel modifications, and other methods to
overcome flood or erosion hazard areas in accordance with the zoning ordinance
and by use of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in
the flood insurance study.
      3.   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      4.   Minimum front and side street building setback line, including those
located on curves and within cul-de-sacs.
      5.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
religious institutions, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-
family dwellings.
      6.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other
underground facilities within the preliminary plat area and to a distance of
one hundred fifty feet (150') beyond. Such data as grades and locations of
catch basins, manholes, hydrants and street pavement width and type also must
be shown.
      7.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than one-half foot (1/2') shown on a contour/topographic map.
Watercourses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcroppings, power transmission
poles and lines, and other significant features also must be shown. USGS datum
must be used for all topographic mapping where feasible.
      8.   Subsurface conditions on tracts for subdivisions utilizing
individual water and wastewater disposal systems; location and results of tests
to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water conditions and
availability; location and results of soil percolation tests.
      9.   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, rock
outcroppings, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1') or more in
diameter, existing houses, barns and other significant features.
      10.   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as
to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, park facilities, fire
hazards, and congestion of population. The city may require the applicant to
have formal traffic or other studies performed to the city's satisfaction which
show the effect of the proposed development on traffic, fire hazards and
congestion.
      11.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, must be shown. Such proposed zoning plan
will be for information only and will not vest any rights in the applicant.
      12.   A storm water management plan both during construction and after
development has been completed. Such plans are to be in accordance with best
management practices (BMPs) as provided by city ordinance, the Minnesota
pollution control agency and the board of water and soil resources.
      13.   A statement certifying the environmental condition of the site
including the presence of any hazardous substance as defined in Minnesota
statutes 115B.02, subdivision 8. Such statement may be required to be based
upon an environmental assessment of the site by an environmental engineering
firm acceptable to the city.
      14.   An environmental assessment worksheet must be submitted if the
city, city consultants, Minnesota environmental quality board or other groups
or agencies determine that one is required by law.
      15.   Sidewalks and bikeways.
      16.   Total square footage of each lot and block.
      17.   Such other information as may be required by the city. (Ord. 2004-
41, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-05, 5-28-2019)
11-4-2: FINAL PLAT:
The applicant must submit a final plat together with a completed city action
request form, appropriate fee and any necessary supplementary information. The
final plat, prepared for recording purposes, must be prepared in accordance
with provisions of Minnesota state statutes and Clay County regulations, and
such final plat must contain the following information:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The final plat must be prepared and certified by a land surveyor who
is registered in the state and must comply with the provisions of the law and
this title.
      2.   Name of the subdivision, which must not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing plat recorded in the county or begin with
the wording "replat".
      3.   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions.
      4.   The location of monuments must be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments must be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments.
      5.   Location of lots, outlots, street rights of way, public highways,
alleys, and parks and other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and
decimals of feet, with the length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with
all other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground must be
shown. Dimensions must be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines.
      6.   Lots must be numbered clearly, blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
      7.   Total square footage per lot, acreage per block and total acres in
the plat, to be submitted separately from the plat.
      8.   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
      9.   Location, purpose and width of all easements to be dedicated.
      10.   Scale not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') of
plat for large scale copies, twenty two inches by thirty four inches (22" x
34") (the scale to be shown graphically on a bar scale), date and north arrow.
      11.   A written statement from the county or township submitted
separately, if the subdivision lies outside the boundaries of the city and is
not to be annexed certifying the following:
         a.   That the road authority, county, township or developer, will
assume all responsibility for repair and maintenance of dedicated streets until
annexation to the city.
         b.   That the township or county has the capacity for and will provide
police and fire protection and on site sewer system and well inspections to
ensure proper installations.
      12.   An executed copy of restrictive covenants to be submitted
separately from the plat.
      13.   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: "Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the designated areas marked 'utility easements'".
      14.   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas not
previously dedicated as follows: "Streets, alleys and other public areas shown
on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated".
      15.   Such other information that may be required by the city. (Ord.
2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-4-3: CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Certification by a registered land surveyor in the form required by
section 505.03, Minnesota statutes, as amended.
   B.   Execution of all owners of any interest in the land and holders of a
mortgage thereon of the certificates required by section 505.03, Minnesota
statutes, as amended, and which certificate must include a dedication of the
utility easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the city
council.
   C.   Space for certificates of approval by the planning commission and city
council in the following form in a substantially similar form:
CITY PLANNER/PLANNING COMMISSION CERTIFICATION
   At a regular meeting of the PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF MOORHEAD,
MINNESOTA, on the           day of          , 20     , the plat of
                                             to the City of Moorhead, Clay
County, Minnesota, was duly recommended for approval to the City Council.
   (NAME OF CURRENT CITY PLANNER)    City Planner
   City of Moorhead, Minnesota
CITY COUNCIL CERTIFICATION
   At a regular meeting of the CITY COUNCIL, OF THE CITY OF MOORHEAD,
MINNESOTA, on the          day of               , 20  , the plat of
                                to the City of Moorhead, Clay County,
Minnesota, was duly approved.
   (NAME OF CURRENT CITY CLERK)   City Clerk
   City of Moorhead, Minnesota
CITY ENGINEERS APPROVAL
   (NAME OF CURRENT CITY ENGINEER
   City of Moorhead, Minnesota
(Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-4-4: METES AND BOUNDS:
   A.   Except in unique situations as may be allowed by the city council or in
cases of minor subdivisions, conveyances by metes and bounds will be prohibited
where any lot or lots involved are less than five (5) acres in area or have a
width of less than three hundred feet (300') at the building setback line.
   B.   When a conveyance by metes and bounds is made and the parcels involved
are between five (5) acres and twenty (20) acres in size, a survey of the
parcels involved must be submitted to the city planner before any building
permits will be issued for those parcels, and a copy of the survey must be
attached to the deed when it is submitted to the Clay County recorder's office
for recording. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Conformity With Moorhead's Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance
11-5-2: Land Requirements
11-5-3: Blocks
11-5-4: Lots
11-5-5: Streets
11-5-6: Alleys
11-5-7: Street Design
11-5-8: Sidewalks
11-5-9: Bike Paths
11-5-10: Boulevard Trees
11-5-11: Wastewater Disposal And Storm Drainage For Areas Without Central Or
Public Services
11-5-12: Drainage
11-5-13: Easements
11-5-14: Protected Areas
11-5-15: Park Land Dedication Requirements
11-5-16: Dedication Of Storm Water Retention Areas
11-5-17: Other Requirements
11-5-1: CONFORMITY WITH MOORHEAD'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE:
A proposed subdivision must conform to the city's comprehensive plan, or
similar document, growth area plans, neighborhood plans, related policies
adopted by the city council and to title 10 of this code. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-
2005)
11-5-2: LAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Land should be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan will be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography or adverse soil.
   B.   Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property will not be
subdivided until all such hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate
safeguards against such hazards are provided by the subdivision plan.
   C.   Proposed subdivisions will be coordinated with surrounding
jurisdictions and/or neighborhoods, so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Accommodation: Block length and width or acreage within bounding
streets must accommodate the size of residential lots required in the area by
the zoning ordinance and to provide for convenient access, circulation control
and safety of street traffic.
   B.   Block Length: In general, intersecting streets should be provided at
such intervals so as to serve cross traffic adequately and to meet existing
streets. Where no existing plats control, the blocks in residential
subdivisions should not exceed one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') nor be
less than three hundred feet (300') in length, except where topography or other
conditions justify a departure from this minimum.
   C.   Block Width: The width of the block should normally be sufficient to
allow two (2) tiers of lots of minimum depth as required by the zoning
ordinance except adjoining a lake, stream, river, railroad or arterial or where
one tier or lot is necessary because of topographic conditions. Blocks intended
for business or industrial uses should be of such width as to be considered
most suitable for their respective use, including adequate space for off street
parking, deliveries and loading. Such facilities should be provided with safe
and convenient limited access to the street system. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-4: LOTS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area, width and depth should not be less than
that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption
of the final plat.
   B.   Side Lot Lines: Side lines of lots should be at right angles to street
lines, radial to curved street lines or radial to accommodate site specific
topographic conditions.
   C.   River Frontage Lots: Such lots should be designed so that the lot lines
extended will maintain the closest approximation to riparian rights.
   D.   Frontage On Two Streets: Double frontage, or lots with frontage on two
(2) parallel or nonintersecting streets should not be permitted, except where
lots back on arterial streets or highways, or where topographic or other
conditions render subdividing otherwise unreasonable.
   E.   Driveway Restrictions: In the case where a proposed plat is adjacent to
a limited access highway, other major highway, principal or minor arterial
streets, no direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets and
roads will be permitted. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-5: STREETS:
   A.   Conformance: Proposed streets must conform to state, metropolitan, and
county highway plans which have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as
prescribed by law.
   B.   Topography: Streets should be logically related to the topography, so
as to produce usable lots and reasonable grades.
   C.   Access: Access must be given to all lots and portions of the tract in a
subdivision and to adjacent unsubdivided parcels, unless the topography clearly
indicates that such connection is not feasible. Reserved strips and landlocked
areas must not be created.
   D.   Continuation: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions should
make provision for the appropriate continuation of existing streets in
adjoining areas.
   E.   Projection: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, but in the future
may be subdivided, the arrangement of streets in a new subdivision should make
provision for the proper projection of streets into adjoining areas by carrying
the new streets to the boundaries of the new subdivision at appropriate
locations. A temporary turnaround facility may be required at the closed end,
in conformance with cul-de-sac size requirements. Temporary facilities will not
require curb and gutter and the construction standards will be established by
the city engineer.
   F.   Arrangement: The arrangement of arterial and collector streets should
be considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and
safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be
served.
   G.   Provisions For Resubdivision Of Large Lots And Parcels: When a tract is
subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels which have the
potential for further subdivision, such lots or parcels should be so arranged
as to permit the logical location and openings of future streets and
appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility connections for
such resubdivision.
   H.   Dead Ends: Dead end streets will be prohibited, except as stated in
subsection E of this section.
   I.   Private Streets: Private streets are prohibited, except in the case of
a planned unit development and/or approval of the city council. No public
street improvement will be approved for any private street.
   J.   Service Streets: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or
planned major arterial or a railroad right of way, a street approximately
parallel to and on each side of such arterial and right of way may be required
for adequate protection of residential properties and separation of through and
local traffic. Such service streets must be located at a distance from the
major arterial or railroad right of way suitable for appropriate use of the
intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or for
commercial and industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
should be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach grades
and future grade separations.
   K.   Design: The street design should not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
   L.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Cul-de-sac streets permanently designed as such,
must not exceed six hundred feet (600') in length, including a terminal
turnaround which must be provided at the closed end, with a right of way radius
of not less than sixty feet (60'). The length will be measured along the
centerline from the nearest intersection to the center point of the cul-de-sac.
(Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-6: ALLEYS:
   A.   Location Permitted: Alleys or service drives may be provided in
residential, commercial and industrial districts.
   B.   Widths: The right of way width of all alleys or service drives must be
at least twenty four feet (24') in commercially or industrially zoned areas.
   C.   Grades: All centerline gradients in alleys must be at least five-tenths
percent (0.5%) and must not exceed six percent (6%).
   D.   Surfacing: All alleys must be hard surfaced with concrete or asphalt,
with concrete valley gutter with a four foot (4') minimum width. (Ord. 2004-41,
1-3-2005)
11-5-7: STREET DESIGN:
   A.   Widths: Street right of way widths will be as determined in the
comprehensive plan and on the official street map, and where applicable, must
conform to county and state standards for trunk highways. In cases where no
standard is provided, the following standards will apply:
 ROW Width (Minimum) In Feet Paved Width
                             Curb To Curb (Minimum) In Feet
                                                    ROW Width    Paved Width
                                                    (Minimum) In Curb To Curb
                                                    Feet         (Minimum) In
                                                                 Feet
All uses:                                                        
   Minor arterial1                               120          40
   Parkway1                                      80           32
   Collector1                                    76 - 80      28
   Local collector, parking on both sides of stre80           38
   Local collector, parking on 1 side of street  80           32
   Local collector, no on street parking         80           26
   Cul-de-sac turnaround                         60 foot      40 foot radius
                                                    radius
   Marginal access/frontage roads2               50           26
Residential uses:                                                
   Multiple-family local, parking both sides of  70           38
street
   Multiple-family local, parking 1 side of stree60           32
   Single-family local, parking on 1 side of stre60           30
   Single-family local, parking on both sides of 66           36
street
   Single-family local, no on street parking     50           26
 
   Notes:
      1.    No on street parking will be permitted for newly platted and newly
constructed roadways unless supported by appropriate analysis and approved by
the city council.
      2.    Marginal access/frontage roads are not designed for on street
parking and must provide an additional 6 feet for each on street parking lane.
   B.   Street Intersections: Insofar as practical, streets should intersect at
right angles. In no case will the angle formed by the intersection of two (2)
streets be less than seventy five degrees (75°) or more than one hundred five
degrees (105°). Intersections having more than four (4) corners will be
prohibited. (Ord. 2012-10, 5-29-2012)
   C.   Tangents: A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') must be
introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   D.   Deflections: When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they should normally be connected by
a curve with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500') for arterials, three hundred feet (300') for collectors,
and two hundred feet (200') for all other streets. The planning commission may
allow greater or lesser sight distances.
   E.   Street Intersection Jogs: Street intersection jogs with centerline
offsets of less than one hundred fifty feet (150') are prohibited.
   F.   Access To Principal Arterials: Full access to such principal arterials
should normally be at intervals of not less than one-half (1/2) mile and
through existing and established crossroads where possible. Conditional access
may be allowed at intervals of not less than one-fourth (1/4) mile.
   G.   Access To Minor Arterials: Full access to such minor arterials should
normally be at intervals of not less than one-fourth (1/4) mile and through
existing and established crossroads where possible. Conditional access may be
allowed at intervals of not less than one-eighth (1/8) mile.
   H.   Access To Collectors: Full access to such collectors should normally be
at intervals of not less than one-eighth (1/8) mile and through existing and
established crossroads where possible. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
   I.   Access To Local Collectors: Full access to such local collectors should
normally be at intervals of not less than three hundred thirty feet (330').
(Ord. 2012-10, 5-29-2012)
   J.   General Access: Access to principal arterials, minor arterials, and
collectors that are located in the urban core. Access to such roadways may be
granted at the discretion of the city engineer at intervals of not less than
three hundred (300) to six hundred sixty feet (660').
   K.   Platting Of Small Tracts: In the platting of small tracts of land
fronting on a principal arterial, minor arterial, or collector where there is
no convenient access to existing entrances and where access from such plat
would be closer than one-fourth (1/4) mile from an existing access point, a
temporary entrance permit may be granted. Provision will be made in such plats
for the connection of roads to neighboring land. As the neighboring land is
platted and developed and access becomes possible at a preferred location, such
temporary entrance permits will become void at the discretion of the city.
   L.   Half Streets: Half streets are prohibited except where it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided, in which case the dedication of a half street may be
permitted. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication of the
remainder must be considered in this decision.
   M.   Inadequate Street Width: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing street of inadequate width, sufficient additional width will be
provided to meet the above standards.
   N.   Additional Width: Additional right of way and roadway widths may be
required to promote public safety and convenience when special conditions
require it.
   O.   Corner Radii: Roadways of street intersections will be rounded by a
radius of not less than twenty feet (20'). Corners at entrances to the
turnaround portions of cul-de-sacs must be rounded by a radius of not less than
twenty feet (20').
   P.   Curb And Gutter: Concrete curb and gutter will be included as part of
the required street surface improvement and will be designed for installation
along both sides of all roadways. With the exception of multiple-family
development, mountable curbing may be allowed within residential subdivisions.
Barrier curb and gutter will be required in multiple-family, commercial and
industrial subdivisions.
   Q.   Street Designation: Whenever practical, streets and avenues will be
designated numerically. The following policies may be generally applied when
designating awkward street and avenue configurations.
      1.   Cul-de-sacs less than three hundred feet (300') will assume the
designation of the street or avenue they abut.
      2.   Loops must be designated avenues, streets or a combination of both,
depending on the depth of the configuration. Generally, the longer the length
or depth, the greater the applicability for a separate street and avenue
designation. For short loops, the word "circle" must be used to indicate the
configuration. Upon approval of the city council, streets may be named when
such streets are not through streets.
      3.   No street names will be used that duplicate or may be confused with
the names of existing streets, unless a new street is a continuation of or in
alignment with the existing or platted street. In that event, it must bear the
same name of the existing or platted street. Street names must conform to the
city's street naming and property numbering system as applicable.
   R.   Minimum Standards: Private streets, at a minimum, must be designed to
provide twenty four feet (24') of access lanes and be constructed to a minimum
depth of five inches (5") of concrete or eight inches (8") of asphalt. (Ord.
2004-41, 1-3-2005; amd. Ord. 2012-10, 5-29-2012)
11-5-8: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   All new subdivisions within the City shall provide sidewalks on both
sides of all arterial, collector, local and cul-de-sac street(s). A developer,
in connection with the platting of a new subdivision or replatting a
subdivision, shall submit a sidewalk plan for approval by the Planning
Commission and City Council, which plan shall be incorporated into a
developer's agreement for that plat.
   B.   A sidewalk plan may be submitted by the developer which illustrates the
placement of sidewalks on one side of a street or areas with no sidewalks.
Factors that the Planning Commission and City Council shall consider include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   The expected population density of the area;
      2.   The location of pedestrian traffic generators within walking
distance;
      3.   The relationship of the subdivision to adjacent existing and
projected land uses;
      4.   Design of the subdivision for which sidewalks are required;
      5.   Existing and/or planned sidewalk connections adjacent to the
subdivision; and
      6.   Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) standards.
   C.   All sidewalks proposed for a subdivision must conform to the standards
outlined in section
11-6-3 of this title. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-22-2018)
11-5-9: BIKE PATHS:
   A.   Bike paths will be required for those subdivisions within the city
where such need has been identified within the metropolitan bicycle and
pedestrian plan or within an applicable growth area plan. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-
2005)
11-5-10: BOULEVARD TREES:
   A.   All subdivisions within the city will be required to provide boulevard
trees in conformance with the standards outlined below:
      1.   All boulevard trees planted will be a minimum of a one and three-
fourths inch (13/4") diameter, and of a variety(ies) which shall be agreed to
by the city and owner and incorporated within developers agreement.
      2.   For any residential lot a boulevard tree may not be planted until
the installation of sidewalk and fine grading of the area that lies between the
street curb and the sidewalk is complete.
      3.   The number of boulevard trees to be planted on any residential lot
will be equivalent to that lot's total linear footage along the city right of
way divided by thirty feet (30') provided the total number of boulevard trees
planted on any residential lot may be reduced so as to not conflict with
driveways, fire hydrants, easement locations or other impediments.
      4.   Boulevard trees will not be required within cul-de-sac roadways.
      5.   The installation of boulevard trees will be allowed:
         a.   By any property owner of record in accordance with an executed
developers agreement.
         b.   By the city or its agent at such time as any subdivision is
determined by the city to be eighty percent (80%) developed (a structure for
which a building permit has been issued by the city has been constructed on a
lot).
      6.   Any property owner of record will be informed thirty (30) days prior
to the planting of boulevard trees, by the city or its agent.
      7.   Costs associated with the acquisition and planting of boulevard
trees within each subdivision will be paid in full and assessed equally on a
per lot basis within said subdivision provided any property owner of record who
has acquired and planted a boulevard tree in accordance with all provisions of
an executed developers agreement, at their own expense, will only be assessed
the per lot assessment for trees installed along side lot frontage. (Ord. 2004-
41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-11: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL AND STORM DRAINAGE FOR AREAS WITHOUT CENTRAL OR
PUBLIC SERVICES:
   A.   On Site Sewer System: In areas being platted without central or public
sewers, the on site sewer system, including the size and relative location of
same, must be in conformance with county, township, state and federal
requirements including any FEMA rules and regulations pertinent to site sewer
and water. When such requirements conflict, the most restrictive will apply.
Subdivisions and/or developments utilizing on site wastewater systems are
required to connect to public facilities in accordance with this code, and pay
any proportionate costs or applicable fees, when such facilities become
available.
   B.   Storm Water Drainage Facilities: Storm water drainage facilities, where
required, must be designed to convey the flow of surface waters without damage
to persons or property. The system must ensure drainage at all points along
streets, and provide positive drainage away from building to accommodate
frequent floods. Drainage plans must be consistent with local and regional
drainage plans. The facilities must be designed to protect against surface
erosion and siltation of surface water and to prevent the discharge of excess
runoff onto adjacent properties. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-12: DRAINAGE:
A complete and adequate drainage system design approved by the city engineer
will be required for all subdivisions and may include a storm sewer system or
system of open ditches, culverts, pipes, catch basins and ponding areas, or a
combination thereof consistent with the provisions of the storm water
ordinance. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-13: EASEMENTS:
All easements must be dedicated by appropriate language on the final plat as
required by law and provisions of this title.
   A.   Utility Easements: Easements of a minimum of ten feet (10') wide
centered on rear and other lot lines, must be provided for public and private
utilities where necessary. When it is not practical to center easements, the
fully required easement width may be required along one property line. Said
easements must have continuity of alignment from block to block. The easements,
when approved, must not thereafter be changed without the approval of the city
council pursuant to section 13.06 of the city charter, as may be amended.
   B.   Drainage: Easements must be provided along each side of the centerline
of any natural watercourse or drainage channel to a width sufficient to provide
proper maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water runoff. Where
necessary, drainage easements corresponding with lot lines must be provided.
Such easements for drainage purposes will not be less than twenty feet (20') in
width or a width equal to the required side yard setback established by the
respective zoning district in which the property is located, whichever is
least.
   C.   Sight: Sight easements beyond required zoning setback regulations may
be required by the city and state department of transportation to protect major
intersections on the state trunk highway system, on arterial and collector
streets and at the intersection of railroad crossings. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-14: PROTECTED AREAS:
Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally sensitive by the
city due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways, watercourses, and/or
floodable areas, the design of said subdivision must clearly reflect all
necessary measures of protection to ensure against adverse environmental
impact. Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city will determine whether said protection will be accomplished
through lot enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in
the form of outlots. In general, measures of protection must include design
solutions which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of
alteration to sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into
lots within the proposed subdivision, the applicant will be required to
demonstrate that the proposed design will not require construction on slopes
over eighteen percent (18%), or result in significant alteration to the natural
drainage system such that adverse impacts cannot be contained within the plat
boundary. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-15: PARK LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Because new residential development increases the
population of the community and demand on the parks system, as a prerequisite
to residential plat approval and at the sole determination by the city,
applicants must dedicate land for parks, playgrounds, public open spaces,
trails or bikeways and/or must make a cash dedication to the city.
      1.   Park land and open space dedication shall be considered in relation
to the city comprehensive plan, growth area plans and parks master plan, should
such planning documents exist at the time of plat, or is as determined to be in
the best interest of the city.
      2.   Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is
provided in a proposed subdivision, such areas may be used for credit, at the
discretion of the city, against the requirement of dedication for park and
recreation purposes provided, the city finds it is in the public interest to do
so.
      3.   The city may elect at its sole discretion to receive a combination
of cash and land dedication.
      4.   During preliminary plat submission the applicant must provide the
city with the number and type of residential units which will occupy the
platted area. If during development the number or type of units are altered,
the applicant will be required to make a cash dedication to account for the
increased density of the project. However, if the number of units are
decreased, the applicant will not be refunded that amount of cash or land
dedicated during original plat approval.
      5.   Property being replatted with the same number of units will be
exempt from all park land dedication requirements. If the number of units is
increased or if land outside the previously recorded plat is added, then the
park land dedication and/or park cash contributions will be based on the
additional units added to the plat.
   B.   Park Land Dedication: In all new residential subdivisions, land must be
dedicated for public recreation use or open space as established by the city
council. The dedicated land must be in addition to property dedicated for
streets, alleys, easements, water detention or other public ways unless
otherwise provided herein. The amount of land dedicated will be based on the
type of development according to the following:
 
Type Of Dwelling Unit Minimum Area Dedicated Per Dwelling Unit
Single or two-family  929 square feet
Multiple-family       669 square feet
 
      1.   Land to be dedicated must be reasonably suitable for its intended
use as determined by the city and must be at a location convenient to the
public to be served. Factors used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed park
and recreation areas must include size, shape, topography, geology, hydrology,
tree cover, access and location.
      2.   When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for park purposes, it
will be the responsibility of the city to maintain such dedicated property.
      3.   Land dedication to the city must be in the form of outlots.
      4.   The preliminary plat must show the location and dimensions of all
areas to be dedicated in this manner.
      5.   When a proposed park, playground, recreational area, or other public
ground has been indicated on the city's official map, within the comprehensive
plan, growth area plan, or park master plan and is located in whole or in part
within a proposed plat, it must be dedicated to the appropriate governmental
unit, at the sole discretion of the city.
      6.   Land area conveyed or dedicated to the city will be used in
calculating allowable density per the city zoning ordinance.
      7.   Wetlands, ponding areas and drainageways accepted by the city may
not be considered in the park land and/or cash contribution to the city, where
such areas have been determined to have a park function, as approved by the
city council.
   C.   Payment In Lieu Of Dedication: When, in the opinion of the city and at
its sole discretion, it is impractical, inappropriate, and/or in the best
interest of the city for a subdivision to not make a dedication of land for
public use or make only a partial dedication of land, the applicant will be
required to pay a cash fee based on the type and number of dwelling units. The
in lieu amount shall be based on the average fair market value of land at the
time of plat without public improvement, as determined by the city assessor and
as approved annually by the city council.
      1.   Park cash contributions are to be calculated and paid in full at the
time of final plat approval.
      2.   Cash contributions for parks and trails will be deposited in either
the city's park fund or similar fund and will only be used for acquisition and
development of future parks and trails or development of existing sites as
determined by the city. Additionally, to the extent possible, said funds should
be utilized in a timely manner within a benefiting area to the development, or
within a regional park facility.
   D.   Purchase And Assessment Of Park Land: The requirement for park land
dedication or payment in lieu of dedication may be waived by the city when an
agreement incorporated into a developer's agreement has been executed between
the city and developer. Such agreement must require the developer to petition
for park improvements to be assessed against the property owned by the
developer, which may include property outside the current plat. The agreement
must set forth the land to be purchased by the city for park purposes and the
purchase price for the land. In addition, the agreement must set forth the
general type of improvements to be included in the petition for park
improvements, as well as the maximum amount of money that may be assessed. Such
maximum amount may be based on a sliding scale based on the density of the
development. The city may enter into such an agreement only if the city council
determines that such an agreement results in a more favorable result to the
city than the imposition of the standard park land dedication or payment in
lieu of dedication requirements. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-16: DEDICATION OF STORM WATER RETENTION AREAS:
Upon approval by the council, the applicant may be required to dedicate to the
public up to six percent (6%) of the land proposed to be subdivided for storm
water retention areas. The six percent (6%) dedication may be considered in
addition to the park land dedication required by section
11-5-15 of this chapter. Additional land may be required for storm water
facilities as identified in an approved growth area plan, storm water master
plan, or to satisfy the requirements of the storm water ordinance. (Ord. 2004-
41, 1-3-2005)
11-5-17: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
The design features set forth in this chapter are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
streets and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property being
subdivided based upon site considerations and the Moorhead comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
CHAPTER 6
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Monuments
11-6-2: Streets And Alleys
11-6-3: Sidewalks
11-6-4: Bike Paths
11-6-5: Public Utilities
11-6-6: Sanitation
11-6-7: Water Supply
11-6-8: Wastewater Disposal
11-6-9: Drainage
11-6-10: Utilities Location
11-6-11: Construction Plans, Inspection And Warranty
11-6-1: MONUMENTS:
Monuments must be placed at all block and lot corners, angle points, points of
curves in streets and at intermediate points as will be required by the City.
The monuments must consist of a number five (5) deformed reinforcement rod, a
minimum of thirty inches (30") long, which with the exception of lot corner
monuments, is placed in concrete a minimum of four feet (4') deep and six
inches (6") in diameter or a manufactured monument. Such monuments must be in
place at the time of final plat approval.
Stakes showing the locations of easements must be provided by the subdivider
upon request of the City. The stakes must be wood lathes and will be used only
to ensure the proper location of utilities on the easements. The stakes must
not be intended to be permanent survey monuments. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Grading: The full width of the right-of-way of each street and alley
dedicated in the plat must be graded in accordance with the plan approved by
the City Engineer. Grading should provide for easy installation of sidewalks at
some future date.
   B.   Paving: For subdivisions within the City, all streets and alleys must
be improved with a concrete or bituminous surface. Streets to be paved must be
surfaced for a seven (7) ton axle weight capacity using current Minnesota
Department of Transportation design standards. Streets not to be paved must be
improved in accordance with the County or City standards, whichever applies. No
building permit will be issued for any lot or parcel in a subdivision prior to
the installation of the first lift of bituminous surfacing or concrete
surfacing on the streets thereof. Exceptions to this provision may be granted
by the City Council at their discretion as part of a developer's agreement.
   C.   Concrete Curb And Gutter: Concrete curb and gutter of a City approved
design will be required for all paved streets.
   D.   Boulevards: All boulevards must have four inches (4") of top soil
(black dirt) placed on them and then be sodded or seeded.
   E.   Street Signs: Street signs of standard design approved by the City must
be installed at each street intersection.
   F.   Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs must be installed at the
request of the City. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-3: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Unless approved by the City Engineer and established as part of a
developers agreement, sidewalk construction shall conform to the standards in
subsection
8-3-4F of this Code.
   B.   Costs associated with the installation of sidewalks within each
subdivision will be paid in full and assessed equally on a per lot basis within
said subdivision provided any property owner of record who has installed
sidewalk in accordance with all provisions of an executed developers agreement,
at their own expense, will only be assessed the per lot assessment for
sidewalks installed along side lot frontage. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-22-2018)
11-6-4: BIKE PATHS:
Unless approved by the City Engineer and established as part of a developers
agreement, bike paths, where required:
   A.   Must be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide, setback a minimum of seven
feet (7') from the curb line, and placed within the right-of-way or upon an
easement of at least twenty feet (20').
   B.   Must be constructed of concrete or asphalt a minimum of four inches
(4") thick, placed on a minimum of two inch (2") sand cushion.
   C.   Must slope one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot away from the property line
and the profile grade must not exceed eight percent (8%). All grades must be
constructed as approved by the City Engineer. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-5: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Water Main: A minimum water main of six inch (6") PVC pipe or other
approved pipe will be required. Mains over six inches (6") in size may be
required, and the additional cost will be allocated pursuant to established
City policies. In cul-de-sac streets of more than one hundred fifty feet
(150'), provisions must be made to loop feed water mains as "dead end" water
mains are not permitted, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Installation must be pursuant to plans approved by the
City Engineer and City Fire Chief. A hydrant will be required in the turnaround
area of all permanent cul- de-sac streets.
   C.   Sanitary Sewer: Unless otherwise required, a sanitary sewer of eight
inch (8") pipe must be installed as the minimum size, placed at grades approved
by the City Engineer. Mains over eight inches (8") in size may be required, and
the additional cost will be allocated pursuant to established City policies.
Service wyes must be a minimum of four inches (4") in diameter.
   D.   House Services: Each house service must be run from the main to the
property line, where a cap or plug will be placed until the service is extended
to the structure. A one inch (1") type K copper water service, or approved
equal; corporation cock, curb box and stop; and four inch (4") PVC schedule 40
pipe, or approved equal, sewer service must be the minimum requirements, and
they may be placed in a common trench.
   E.   As Built Drawings: Reproducible "as built" drawings showing all
utilities and improvements must be furnished to the City by the applicant of
all required improvements in developments where the applicant has been
responsible for improvements. Such "as built" drawings must be certified to be
true and accurate by the registered engineer responsible for the installation
of the improvements. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-6: SANITATION:
Water and sewer lines must be installed and connected to the public system to
serve all lots within the proposed subdivision under the provisions of
applicable statutes and ordinances. The City Council will require the
installation of water and sewer mains, at the applicant's expense or under the
provisions of applicable statutes and ordinances. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-7: WATER SUPPLY:
An individual well, if permitted by the City Council, must be constructed in
accordance with the Minnesota State Well Code and the following standards will
apply:
   A.   In subdivisions of less than forty (40) lots, the applicant must
provide evidence that lots proposed for individual wells will have a good
chance of securing an adequate supply of potable water. In those cases where
evidence cannot be provided, the City may require the applicant to install an
approved central water system and service each lot with an adequate supply of
potable water.
   B.   In subdivisions of forty (40) or more lots, the applicant must install
an approved central water system and service each lot with an adequate supply
of potable water.
   C.   Subdivisions and/or developments utilizing on site well systems are
required by this Code to connect to public facilities as required by this Code,
and pay any proportionate costs or applicable fees, when such facilities become
available. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-8: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Sanitary sewer mains and service connections must be installed to serve
all the lots in the subdivision and must be connected to the public system when
within the City limits and/or utility service area.
   B.   When a subdivision lies outside of the City limits all applicable State
and County requirements must be satisfied. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-9: DRAINAGE:
All surface and underground drainage systems must be installed by the applicant
to adequately remove all natural drainage that accumulates on the developed
property. All such systems must provide complete removal and a permanent
solution for the removal of drainage water and will be subject to City review
and approval. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-10: UTILITIES LOCATION:
Except for utilities installed by the City, all utilities must be placed
underground. All underground work must be completed prior to street surfacing.
All utility lines for telephone and electrical service must be placed in rear
line easements when carried on overhead poles. (Ord. 2004-41, 1-3-2005)
11-6-11: CONSTRUCTION PLANS, INSPECTION AND WARRANTY:
   A.   For Municipal improvements which are publicly financed, construction
plans for the required improvements conforming in all respects with the
standards and ordinances of the City shall be prepared by the City. The City
may contract with a professional engineer licensed in the State, with input
from the owner/developer, to complete the design work. The owner/developer must
acknowledge and approve, in writing, proposed project costs and any related
special assessments as outlined in the preliminary engineering report prior to
award of a construction bid. The City and/or City's contracted professional
engineer will complete construction observation and contract administration.
All project costs shall be eligible for public financing.
   B.   For Municipal improvements which are privately financed, construction
plans for the required improvements conforming in all respects with the
standards and ordinances of the City shall be prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the State contracted by the owner/developer. A preliminary
engineering report and construction plans, together with the quantities of
construction items and estimated cost, must be reviewed and approved by the
City prior to award of a construction bid. The owner/developer must provide
written approval of proposed project costs, as outlined in the preliminary
engineering report. A plan review fee, as established by the City Council,
shall be charged. The owner/developer shall contract with a professional
engineer licensed in the State to complete construction observation and
contract administration. Upon completion of construction, the owner/developer
must provide to the City a written warranty certified by a professional
engineer licensed in the State that all required improvements on the site meet
or exceed all City standards, that such improvements have been inspected and
tested in accordance with City standards, and that such improvements have been
constructed in accordance with the approved plans. The owner/developer shall be
responsible for the cost of all inspections and testing. Upon certification and
delivery of as built plans, the City will accept and maintain all public
improvements. All plans will become part of the written agreement.
   C.   For Municipal improvements which are publicly financed in part,
construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all respects
with the standards and ordinances of the City shall be prepared by a
professional engineer licensed in the State contracted by the owner/developer.
A preliminary engineering report and construction plans, together with the
quantities of construction items and estimated cost, must be reviewed and
approved by the City prior to award of a construction bid. The owner/developer
must acknowledge and approve, in writing, proposed project costs and any
related special assessments as outlined in the preliminary engineering report
prior to award of a construction bid. A plan review fee, as established by the
City Council, shall be charged. The City and/or City's contracted professional
engineer will complete construction observation and contract administration.
The Municipal improvements, construction observation, and construction contract
administration costs shall be eligible for public financing. (Ord. 2012-10, 5-
29-2012)
CHAPTER 7
SUBDIVIDING IN FLOOD AREAS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability For Flooding
11-7-2: Land Requirements
11-7-3: Subdivision Flooding And Flood Control
11-7-4: Building Site Improvements For Flood Prone Areas
11-7-5: Plat And Data Requirements
11-7-6: Denial Of Plat
11-7-1: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY FOR FLOODING:
This title does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or land
uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This title will not create liability on the part of the city of
Moorhead or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this title or any administrative decisions lawfully made
thereunder.
No responsibility or liability will arise from the design or operation of
subdivision drainage facilities dedicated to the city until the city has
accepted such dedication. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
11-7-2: LAND REQUIREMENTS:
As stated in section
11-5-2 of this title, land must be suited to the purpose for which it is to be
subdivided. No plat will be approved if the site is not suitable for the
purposes proposed by reason of potential flooding. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
11-7-3: SUBDIVISION FLOODING AND FLOOD CONTROL:
   A.   No land will be subdivided if the council finds the land unsuitable for
subdividing due to flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply, or wastewater
treatment facilities in accordance with this title and title 10 of this code.
Any building sites on lots within the flood fringe district must be constructed
in accordance with this title and title 10 of this code. All subdivisions must
have water and sewer disposal facilities that comply with the provisions of
this title, and any applicable building, health or safety codes, including the
Minnesota state building code. Each of the above requirements must take into
consideration the 100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in
the flood insurance study and the flood insurance rate map.
   B.   In reviewing proposed subdivisions in the floodway or flood fringe
overlay districts, all criteria in section
10-2-2; title 10, chapter 17, article B; and section
10-18-4 of this code shall be considered. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
11-7-4: BUILDING SITE IMPROVEMENTS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS:
   A.   Should the city council determine that only a part of a proposed plat
can be safely developed, it will limit development to that part and require
that the specifications for development be consistent with its determination.
   B.   When someone other than the applicant intends to develop the plat, and
the city council determines that additional use controls are required to ensure
safe development, it may require the applicant to impose appropriate deed
restrictions on the land. Such deed restrictions must be inserted in every deed
and noted on the face of the final recorded plat. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
11-7-5: PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant must prepare and submit a preliminary plat which includes the
following flood related data:
   A.   As stated in section
11-4-1 of this title, a preliminary plat must include:
      1.   100-year flood elevations, the regulatory flood protection
elevation, and boundaries of floodway and flood fringe areas, if known, taking
into consideration the flood insurance study and flood insurance rate map; and
      2.   Proposed fill, levees, structural flood works, channel modifications
and other methods to address flood or erosion hazard areas in accordance with
title 10, chapter 17, article B of this code and by use of the 100-year flood
profile and other supporting technical data in the flood insurance study. This
information must be submitted when requested by the city staff, consultants,
advisory bodies, the planning commission, and/or city council to address site
specific questions. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
11-7-6: DENIAL OF PLAT:
As stated in section
11-3-4 of this title, the planning commission may recommend denial and the
council may deny a subdivision if it makes any of the following findings
related to subdivision in flood prone areas:
   A.   That the physical characteristics of this site, including, but not
limited to, topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design or use; and
   B.   That the proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages or
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway or flood fringe or
within other areas of the city. (Ord. 2012-1, 2-27-2012)
APPENDIX
   A.   Waiver Of Fees To Implement Incentive/Demand Pricing: Payment of up to
fifty percent (50%) of the fees and charges set forth in the 2018 fee schedule
may be waived by the City Manager or his/her designee for a period of up to
thirty (30) days if the following conditions exist:
      1.   A recreational activity/event for which user fees are charged can
remain open during off-peak hours/season by temporarily reducing its user fees/
rates.
      2.   Promotional/marketing events for MATBUS, intended to attract new
ridership, including discounts or limited time free rides targeted to college
students, holiday shoppers, persons living near new bus routes, or other
potential customers.
      3.   To incentivize use of a facility/services by the public.
      4.   As an economic development incentive.
      5.   In response to a State or nationally declared emergency.
   In the event the City Manager reduces any fees in accordance with this
subsection, the City Manager shall report such reduction/waiver within ten (10)
days of such action to the Moorhead City Council. (Ord. 2017-19, 1-8-2018)
ANNUAL FEE SCHEDULE
 2024 2025
ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING
                                      2024                              2025
ADMINISTRATION AND ACCOUNTING
Annual financial report               $15.00
Budget                                $15.00
Election ward/precinct maps           $10.00
Returned check charge                 $30.00
Duplicate satisfaction of mortgage    $15.00
Photocopies:
Black and white (less than 100 pages) $0.25/copy
Black and white (2-sided copies)      $0.50/sheet
Black and white (more than 100 pages) TBD Employee time to retrieve and
                                      cost of copies
81/2 x 11 color                       $1.00/page
81/2 x 14 color                       $1.25/page
11 x 17 color                         $1.50/page
 
 2024 2025
BUILDING-PLUMBING-HEATING
                                     2024                                  2025
BUILDING-PLUMBING-HEATING
BUILDING PERMIT FEES (Other Than New 1 And 2 Family Dwellings)
Total Valuation:
$1.00 to $1,000.00                   $37.00
                                     $37.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus
$1,001.00 to $25,000.00              $8.60 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof to and including
                                     $25,000.00
                                     $248.00 for the first $25,000.00 plus
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00             $6.90 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof to and including
                                     $50,000.00
                                     $421.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00            $4.60 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof to and including
                                     $100,000.00
                                     $655.00 for the first $100,000.00
$100,001.00 and up                   plus $4.00 for each additional
                                     $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
BUILDING PERMIT FEES (New 1 And 2 Family Dwellings)
Total Valuation:
$1.00 to $1,000.00                   $30.00
                                     $30.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus
$1,001.00 to $100,000.00             $4.60 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof, to and including
                                     $100,000.00
                                     $490.00 for the first $100,000.00
$100,001.00 and up                   plus $2.30 for each additional
                                     $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
Other Inspections:                                                         
Reinspection, additional plan        $64.00/hour (½ hour minimum)
reviews, changes, revisions
Swimming pools                       By building permit valuation as noted
                                     above
Demolition                           $64.00
Inspections when no City permit is   $64.00
issued
Manufactured homes (mobile homes in  $64.00
courts)
Moving permits within or into City   $160.00
limits
Moving permits out of City limits
and manufactured home placement      $64.00
within a licensed manufactured home
community
Investigation Fee - Construction     Fee equal to the permit of the
started without a permit             attributable building permit, limited
                                     to $5,000.00
Commercial building plan review      25% of the building permit fee
For the use of outside consultants for plan review or inspections - fee equal
to actual cost plus 10% administration. Inspection fee charge for inspections
of buildings to be moved into the City which are located more than 10 miles
from the City: $63.00 plus $0.50/mile.
PLUMBING PERMIT FEES
For the first four (4) fixture       $32.00
openings
For each fixture opening over four   $5.00
(4)
New water taps, each                 $43.00
New sewer taps, each                 $43.00
An investigation fee equal to the
permit fee shall be charged whenever
work is started prior to obtaining a
permit.
Plumbing Plan Review Fees:
System reviewed:
Water distribution and drain, waste and vent systems, including interceptors,
separators, or catch basins
25 or fewer drainage fixture units   $107.00
26 to 50 drainage fixture units      $193.00
51 to 150 drainage fixture units     $267.00
151 to 249 drainage fixture units    $383.00
                                     $3.00/drainage fixture unit to a
250 or more drainage fixture units   maximum of $2,730.00 and $53.00/
                                     interceptor, separator, or catch
                                     basin
Building sewer service only          $107.00
Building water service only          $107.00
Building water distribution system   $4.00/supply fixture unit to a
only (no drainage system)            maximum of $100.00
                                     $175.00 minimum fee, or $42.00/drain
Storm drainage system                opening, up to a maximum of $420.00,
                                     and $53.00/interceptor, separator, or
                                     catch basin
HEATING PERMIT FEES
Total Valuation:                                                           
$1.00 to $500.00                     $17.00
$501.00 to $1,000.00                 $38.00
                                     $38.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus
$1,001.00 to $10,000.00              $6.80 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof, to and including
                                     $10,000.00
                                     $100.00 for the first $10,000.00 plus
$10,001.00 to $50,000.00             $4.20 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof, to and including
                                     $50,000.00
                                     $270.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00            $2.60 for each additional $1,000.00
                                     or fraction thereof, to and including
                                     $100,000.00
                                     $400.00 for the first $100,000.00
$100,001.00 and up                   plus $1.40 for each additional
                                     $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
An investigation fee equal to the permit fee shall be charged whenever work is
started without a permit.
 
BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMITS
   2024 2025
BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMITS
                                                        2024    2025
Administration Fee - Insurance Reinstatement           $50.00   
                                                             
Administration Fee - Late Renewal                              
 Business License - Received after December 31st             $50.00
 Liquor License - Received after June 30th                   $50.00
                                                             
Cannabis and Lower Potency Hemp Edible Retail                  
Business Registration Fees & Violation Fines
Registration Fees per State License Type
 Cannabis retailer                                            
    Initial registration fee                              $500.00
    Renewal registration fee                              $1,000.00
 Cannabis microbusiness                                       
    Initial registration fee                              $0.00
    Renewal registration fee                              $500.00
 Cannabis mezzobusiness                                       
    Initial registration fee                              $500.00
    Renewal registration fee                              $1,000.00
 Medical cannabis combination business                        
    Initial registration fee                              $500.00
    Renewal registration fee                              $1,000.00
 Lower potency hemp edible retailer                           
    Initial registration fee                              $125.00
    Renewal registration fee                              $125.00
   Violation Fines
 Selling without a valid registration                        $2,000.00
                                                                each occurrence
 First violation - other than selling without valid          $2,000.00
  registration                                                  each occurrence
  Second violation - other than selling without valid           $2,000.00
 registration at the same location within five years         each occurrence
  of the first violation
  Third violation - other than selling without valid            $2,000.00
 registration at the same location within five years         each occurrence
  of the first violation
  Fourth violation - other than selling without valid           $2,000.00
 registration at the same location within five years         each occurrence
  of the first violation
                                                             
Cigarette/Tobacco Products License                      $125.00
                                                             
Encroachment Right-Of-Way Permit:                              
 Fee for adjoining business or property owner         $50.00   
 Fee for mobile operations                            $100.00  
                                                             
 
BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMITS
BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMITS
Liquor Licenses:
On-sale intoxicating liquor                                 $6,000.00
On-sale intoxicating liquor - public golf course (8 months) $4,000.00
Special hours liquor (Banquet/Event Center)                 $2,500.00
3.2% on-sale liquor                                         $300.00
Malt liquor (HHIC only)                                     $300.00
Wine                                                        $300.00
Sunday                                                      $200.00
Club (on-sale) - fee based on membership:
200 members or less                                         $300.00
201 - 500 members                                           $500.00
501 - 1,000 members                                         $650.00
1,001 - 2,000 members                                       $800.00
2,001 - 4,000 members                                       $1,000.00
4,001 - 6,000 members                                       $2,000.00
Over 6,000 members                                          $3,000.00
Off-sale                                                    $200.00
Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor                                   $200.00
Brewer off-sale                                             $200.00
Investigation fee for new on, off, Sunday, and wine         $250.00
applicants
Investigation fee for all on, off, Sunday, and wine         $125.00
renewals
Security fee (4 hour min., $25/hour)                        100.00/25.00
Special event community festival                            $35.00
Special event on-sale                                       $35.00
Special event on-sale 3.2% malt liquor                      $35.00
Possession/consumption (parks)                              $35.00       $50.00
Deposit for possession/consumption special event (parks)    $250.00
Taproom                                                     $300.00
Live Adult Entertainment License:
Business                                                    $250.00
Individual                                                  $250.00
Massage Enterprise License:
Initial license                                             $125.00
Renewal                                                     $125.00
Massage Home Occupation:
Initial license                                             $125.00
Renewal                                                     $125.00
Massage Therapist License:
Initial license                                             $125.00
Renewal                                                     $125.00
Non-Alcoholic Club License:                                 $125.00
Bond                                                        $3,000.00
Pawnbroker's License:
Initial license fee                                         $1,000.00
Renewal license fee                                         $1,000.00
Bond                                                        $5,000.00
Transaction fee                                             $250.00
Pet Shop License                                            $150.00
Salvage - Limited License:                                  $300.00
Bond                                                        $1,000.00
Secondhand Dealer's License:                                $125.00
Bond                                                        $500.00
Short Term Lender
Initial license                                             $500.00
Renewal license                                             $250.00
Taxicab/Limousine License:
Taxicab/limousine driver (no cap)                           $125.00
Taxicab/limousine service - first vehicle                   $50.00
Taxicab/limousine service - additional vehicles - cap       $15.00
($200.00)
Transient Merchant:
Daily                                                       $125.00
Annual                                                      $250.00
Transportation Network Companies:
Company                                                     $125.00
Tree Contractor's License:                                  $50.00
Bond                                                        $1,000.00
Used Car Dealer's License:                                  $125.00
 
 
                         2024    2025
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Tax incentive application $525.00
 
 2024 2025
ENGINEERING
                                  2024                               2025
ENGINEERING
Construction Plans:
PDF electronic copy (pass-through $15.00
cost to 3rd party vendor)
Virtual/on-line bidding (pass-    $30.00
through cost to 3rd party vendor)
Paper plan sets                   At cost
Engineering Lawn Grades           $40.00/occurrence
Permits For Work Within The
Right-Of-Way:
Underground utility installation/
repairs:
Contractor bond to work within    $25,000.00 minimum
City right-of-way
Insurance required to work within Same as for City construction
City right-of-way                 contract (general conditions
                                  section 00800)
Boring/trenching and excavations:
0' - 500'                         $255.00                            $285.00
501' - 1,500'                     $555.00                            $620.00
1,501'+ feet to 5,000 feet '      $1,255.00                          $1,400.00
* Fee includes $25.00 stormwater
application fee
Temporary lane closure permit
(only if a right-of-way permit is
not required)
Local or local collector street -
partial closure, no detour        $0.00/week
required
Local or local collector street - $20.00/week
full closure, detour required
Sidewalk or bike path - full      $20.00/week
closure
Arterial or collector street -    $0.00/week
parking lane or shoulder closure
Arterial or collector street -
traffic lane closure, no detour   $20.00/week
required
Arterial or collector street -    $100.00/week
full closure, detour required
Overweight/overdimensional        $20.00 each
vehicle permit
Wireless Telecommunication
Facilities Within Right-Of-Way:
Permit                            $250.00 each
Annual rent                       $150.00 each
Annual maintenance                $25.00 each
Power less than or equal to 100   $73.00/radio node/ month
watts
Power greater than 100 watts      $182.00/radio node/ month
Driveway approach/curb and
gutter/sidewalk:
Driveway approach                 $35.00 each                        $50.00
Curb and gutter or sidewalk       $30.00 per 50 foot increment       $50.00
(excluding driveway width)
Contractor bond to work within    $5,000.00                          $10,000.00
City right-of-way
Insurance required to work within Same as for City construction
City right-of-way                 contract (general conditions
                                  section 00800)
Stormwater:
Grading/erosion control permit    $25.00 up to 1 acre
                                 $12.50/additional acre
Annual permit for new             $250.00
subdivisions
Plan Review Fee For Privately
Financed Infrastructure:
The first $100,000.00 of          2%
estimated construction cost
All cost above the first
$100,000.00 of estimated          1%                                    
construction cost
Maps:
All maps 11" x 17" or less        –
All maps plotter size C or larger $10.00
Special mapping requests or       $40.00/hour plus media costs          
custom projects
Special Assessment Fees:
Administration fees (applied to   5% of construction and engineering
all assessed projects)            cost
Engineering fees:
Applied to publicly or privately
financed public infrastructure    11% of construction cost           13%
projects - design and
construction engineering by City
Applied to public infrastructure
projects - design privately
funded; but either the            7% of construction cost
construction publicly funded or
construction engineering services
are completed by the city
Special Assessment Rates
Primary benefit rate; local &
minor arterial/collector streets
Urban mill & overlay              $40.00/adjusted front foot         $42.50
Rural mill & overlay              $22.50/adjusted front foot         $25.00
Rehabilitation (limited curb &    $85.00/adjusted front foot         $90.00
gutter repairs
Reconstruction (full curb &       $135.00/adjusted front foot        $140.00
gutter replacement)
Secondary benefit rate; minor
arterial/collector streets
Mill & overlay, rehabilitation,   $575.00 per equivalent single      $600.00
reconstruction                    family lot
Sidewalk panel repairs (not
otherwise included in a street    $8.00/square foot                  $12.00
project)
Curb & gutter repairs (not
otherwise included in a street    $30.00 per lineal foot             $38.00
project)
 
                2024 2025
FIRE DEPARTMENT
                                                                         2024                                   2025
FIRE DEPARTMENT
Reports: one copy free to victim
Fire incident                                                            $3.00/report
Photocopies:
Black and white (less than 100 pages)                                    $0.25/copy
Black and white (2-sided copies)                                         $0.50/sheet
Black and white (more than 100 pages)                                    TBD Employee time to retrieve and cost    
                                                                         of copies
81/2 x 11 color                                                          $1.00/page
81/2 x 14 color                                                          $1.25/page
11 x 17 color                                                            $1.50/page
Photographs                                                              $15.00/hour plus actual cost for
                                                                         production of photographs
Board Of Appeals                                                         $25.00
Parking In Fire Lane                                                     See the Police Department fees page
                                                                         for this item
Daycare/Foster Care Inspections                                          $50.00
Other Inspections                                                        $65.00/hour (½ hour minimum/30 minute
   (Re-inspection, additional plan reviews, changes, revisions, etc.) increments)
Hotel/Motel Inspections                                                  Fee schedule per Minnesota Statutes
                                                                         Annotated 299F.46
Underground Fireline Inspections                                         $65.00/hour (1 hour minimum/30 minute
                                                                         increments)
Wet/Dry Fire Suppression Systems Inspections                             $65.00/hour (1 hour minimum/30 minute
                                                                         increments)
Alternative Fire Suppression Systems Inspections                         $65.00/hour (1 hour minimum/30 minute
                                                                         increments)
Fire Prevention Permits:
Ag chemicals                                                             $ 50.00
Auto/truck repair                                                        $50.00
Bulk plant                                                               $50.00
Bulk station                                                             $50.00
Cutting/welding/spray painting                                           $50.00
Dry cleaners                                                             $50.00
Engine repair                                                            $50.00
Explosives                                                               $50.00
Fiberglass manufacturing                                                 $50.00
Fire alarm/monitoring only (permit)                                      No fee
                                                                         $100.00 minimum (includes 1 hour of
Fire alarm plan review/inspection 2% of value                            inspection with additional hours
                                                                         charged at $65.00/hour)
Fireworks displays                                                       Variable - subject to actual cost of      
                                                                         Fire Department standby crew
Fireworks retail sale or storage                                         $100.00
Fuel dispensing stations                                                 $10.00 for 1st nozzle plus $5.00/
                                                                         additional nozzle - $50.00 minimum
Grain handling/dust                                                      $50.00
Hardware/paint/ammunition                                                $50.00
Hazardous materials                                                      $50.00
Liquefied petroleum gas                                                  $50.00
Paint dealer                                                             $50.00
Pest control                                                             $50.00
Service station                                                          $50.00
Spray painting/undercoating                                              $50.00
                                                                         Valuation of $1.00 - 1,000.00 is
Tank installation (above or underground fuel)                            $50.00/tank
                                                                         Valuation over $1,000.00 is an
                                                                         additional $4.00 per $1,000.00
Tank removal (above or under ground fuel)                                $50.00/tank
Temporary structures                                                     $50.00
Waste tire processing/storage                                            $50.00
Woodworking/finishing                                                    $50.00
 
 
             2024        2025
FORESTRY
Monthly Fees:             
Residential   $5.17/month $5.58/month
Rental units  $5.17/month $5.58/month
 
Dump Fees At Tree Disposal Site (Including Stump Grindings):
2025
   Moorhead Minnesota Outside
                      Minnesota
Dump Fees At Tree Disposal Site (Including Stump Grindings):
2025
                                       Moorhead Minnesota Outside
                                                          Minnesota
 Pickup/without side boards           $25.00   $50.00    $75.00
 Pickup/with side boards              $30.00   $60.00    $90.00
 1-ton trucks or single axle trailers $50.00   $100.00   $150.00
 2-ton trucks or double axle trailers $70.00   $140.00   $210.00
 Tandem axle trucks                   $140.00  $280.00   $420.00
 Trucks larger than tandem axle       $200.00  $400.00   $600.00
 Late fee                                      5% of unpaid balance per month
City of Moorhead residents/homeowners may bring material that can be chipped
to the disposal site at no charge.
Elm material originating from within City limits can be dumped at no charge.
Mixed loads (containing elm) will be charged at full rates.
Elm material originating from outside the City will be charged full rates.
Loads dumped with load tickets that included fraudulent location verification
information will be subject to a $100.00 penalty and additional criminal
charges may be filed.
 
 
 
 
                                        2024      2025
Branch Pick Up Fees:
Branch pick ups - 8" in diameter or less No charge
Elm/tree boulevard material              No charge
 
 2024 2025
MASS TRANSIT
                                      2024                                 2025
MASS TRANSIT
Fixed Route:                                                               
Cash fares:
Adult                                 $1.50
Elderly and disabled                  $0.75
Youth (K - 12th grade)                $0.75
Child (age birth to 6)                Free
Disabled veterans                     Free
Other passes:
1-day pass - all customers            $5.00 - Cash on-board bus only
120-day college semester pass         $60.00 - excludes students in U-Pass
                                      Program)
31-day business pass                  $27.00 - must be employer purchased
                                      in bulk)
MATBUS Connect: mobile ticket and
smart card (load funds and manage
online by customer)
Pay as you go - adult
1 ride (valid for 90 minutes)         $1.50
1 day best fare - free rides after    $3.00
spend $3.00
31 days best fare - free rides after  $42.00
spend $42.00
Pay as you go - elderly, disabled and
youth
1 ride (valid for 90 minutes)         $0.75
1 day best fare - free rides after    $3.00
spend $3.00
31 days best fare - free rides after  $27.00
spend $27.00
90 days (youth only) best fare - free $27.00
rides after spend $27.00
Smart Card (without funds loaded)     Replacement $10.00
   Initial card free
Transfers between Moorhead buses      Free
Transfers between Moorhead and Fargo  Free
buses
Metro Senior Ride:
Cash fares:
Senior citizens age 60 and older
1 guest to senior citizen             $3.00
General public                        $23.00
Preschool child (under age 7)         Free with adult
Transfers to Metro Area Transit       Free
Prepaid punch cards:
Senior citizen (60+) 20 ride card     $60.00
Senior citizen (60+) 10 ride card     $30.00
MAT Paratransit:
Cash or Credit Card                   $3.00
Prepaid coupons (10 or more)          $3.00
Passenger assistants (1 per disabled  Free
person)
Guest (1 per disabled person)         $3.00
Agency rate for non-emergency medical $38.00
trip eligible for medicaid
Sunday only general public fare
(passenger not ADA paratransit        $25.00
eligible)
 
 
                                            2024 2025
Interior Advertising Rates (Monthly Rates):
Exterior Advertising Rates (Monthly Rates):
 
 
 
                                                             2024      2025
MOORHEAD PUBLIC SERVICE
Fire Hydrant (Penalties For Unauthorized Use):
1st violation for use without permit, not reporting weekly   $200.00
usage, or moving a hydrant meter
2nd violation for use without permit or moving hydrant meter $500.00
Repeated violations                                          $1,000.00
 
 2024 2025
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
                                         2024                             2025
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
Hangar Lease Rates (per month)
Hangar 1 - north                         $145.00
Hanger 1 - south                         $160.00
Hangar 2 - north                         $155.00
Hanger 2 - south                         $170.00
Hangar 3 - north                         $155.00
Hanger 3 - south                         $170.00
Hangar 4                                 $225.00
Hangar 4 with storage                    $265.00
Storage space                            $78.00
Apron parking - if aircraft is not       $15.00 per day
licensed and airworthy
Apron parking - if aircraft is not moved $15.00 per day
for snow removal after 24 hour notice
Apron parking - if parked more than 7    $15.00 per day starting on day 8
days without flight
 
 2024 2025
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES
                                        2024                             2025
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES
Rental Registration Annual Fees:
Owner occupied plus 1 interior unit:
Base building fee                       $85.00
Incentive reduction                     -
1 unit:
Base building fee                       $150.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
2 - 4 units:
Base building fee                       $190.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
5 - 10 units:
Base building fee                       $230.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
11 - 15 units:
Base building fee                       $275.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
16 - 30 units:
Base building fee                       $285.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
31 - 45 units:
Base building fee                       $350.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
46-59 units
Base building fee                       $400.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
Over 60 units:
Base building fee                       $500.00
Incentive reduction                     $(50.00)
$50.00 building fee reduction
applicable to well-managed properties
qualifying for self-inspection.
Maximum 2 building fees per multifamily
campus (collocated, same ownership,
common appointment).
Transfer Of Ownership - Must be         N/C
reported but no fee will be charged
Rental Registration Inspection Fees:
Initial inspection                      -
Re-inspection                           $100.00 for first hour/building
                                        $100.00/hour thereafter/building
Administrative penalties apply to
property maintenance violations after
the first re-inspection.
Pre-purchase inspection                 $100.00
Missed inspection/"no-show" fee         $25.00/building
Second and subsequent missed inspection $50.00/building
at same property
Cancellation/reschedule fee             $25.00/building
Late Registration Fees:
Up to 30 days late (max. $50.00/        $50.00/building
building)
30 - 60 days late (max. $100.00/        $100.00/building
building)
Administrative penalties apply to
unregistered rental units more than 60
days past due.
Vacant building registration            $400.00
 
Property Maintenance: 2024    2025
The Moorhead City Council has adopted the following penalty structure for
violations set forth in titles 3, 9, and 10 of this Code:
Violations            Penalty
Property Maintenance:                                   2024    2025
The Moorhead City Council has adopted the following penalty structure for
violations set forth in titles 3, 9, and 10 of this Code:
Violations                                              Penalty
Hazardous property condition                            $200.00  
Substandard property condition                          $100.00  
Unregistered rental dwelling units                      $100.00  
Nuisances                                               $100.00  
Zoning violations                                       $100.00  
Other violations of title 3, 9, or 10 of this Code      $100.00  
Violations of title 3, 9, or 10 of this Code affecting:          
5 - 20 parcels owned by the same property owner         $400.00  
More than 20 parcels owned by the same property owner   $750.00  
   Appeal - Filing Fee                               $50.00   
Fee noted is per violation. Continuing or repeat violations subject to daily
penalties. Maximum penalty per violation is $2,000.00.
 
 2024 2025
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
                             2024                         2025
PARKS AND RECREATION FEES
ADULT PROGRAMS
Ice Show Tickets:
Ages 3 - 11                  $6.00/person
Ages 12+                     $9.00/person
Open Gym (Ellen Hopkins and
Good Shepherd)
   Youth                  No fee                        
   Adults T - TH (Sundays $5.00
free)
Water Exercise (Punch Card):
6 - 12 sessions              $35.00/$65.00
Swimming:
   Synchronized Swimming
   Lap Swim               $25.00
   Water Exercise
      6 - 12 sessions  $30.00/$65.00
Swimming Certification:
Lifeguard certification      $120.00 (free for those who  $130.00
                             work for Mhd)
Lifeguard review course      $75 (free to current         $80.00
                             employees)
Swim instructor course (Mhd  No fee
kids)
Pickleball (MYHA)
Pickleball program           $5.00/person/time
Pickleball punchcard         $40.00
Pickleball program daytime   No fee                       $5.00
seniors
YOUTH PROGRAMS
Adaptive:
Adaptive day camp - 8 weeks  $65.00
Adaptive soccer              $50.00
Adaptive swimming lessons    $45.00                       $50.00
Challengers baseball         $50.00
Baseball/Softball:
T-ball, rookie, Pop-up       $55.00/$82.50                $60.00/$85.00
Late registration fee        50% of fee
Big Bopper                   $50.00
Basketball:
Youth basketball             $50.00/$75.00                $60.00/$80.00
Late registration fee        50% of fee
Mini basketball              $50.00/$75.00                $60.00/$80.00
CPR Blended Learning:        $65.00
Golf:
Junior golf lessons          $57.00
Lil Linkers                  $37.00                       $38.00
Football:
Youth flag football          $55.00/$82.00                $60.00/$85.00
Late registration fee        $5.00/$7.50
                             (50% of fee)
Neighborhood Park Programs:
Summer Park Program (at      $55.00- (2) 4 week sessions  $60.00
NRC's)                       (1:30 - 5 p.m.)
Tiny Treasures               $20.00/$30.00
Art camps                    $36.00/$40.00
Various art classes          $10.00-$15.00
After School Adventures      No fee                       No fee
(Romkey Park)                CDBG funded
Red Cross Babysitting Course $70.00                       $75.00
Skateboarding:
   Camp registration      $50.00
   Gear Rental/Camp       $10.00
Skating Lessons:
Skate With Us:
Tots 3+                      $43.00
Levels 1 - 6                 $47.00
Hockey skills, novice        $52.00
Adults                       $55.00
Novice patch                 $52.00
Advanced skaters ice time:
Daily/season fee packages    $125.00/$395.00
Sports Sampler:
Ages 4 - 6                   $40.00                       $45.00
Family Sports Day                                         $5.00 per kid per day
Swimming Lessons:
Learn To Swim:
Preschool                    $50.00
Level 1 - 6                  $50.00
Parent/child                 $35.00
Private swim lessons         $55.00/4 30-minute sessions
Tae Kwon Do
Advance/beginner/black belt- $75.00                       $80.00
adult
Tennis Lessons:
Beginners                    $45.00
Junior varsity/varsity       $55.00
Varsity                      $55.00
Pee Wee                      $40.00
Volleyball:
Youth coed volleyball        $60.00
Winter Outdoor Rinks At      No fee
NRC's
Canoe/Kayak:
Rentals                      $10.00/vessel/hour
Excursions (single)          $15.00/person
Excursions                   $10.00 providing own vessel
Cross Country Ski:
Family ski rental            $40.00
Ski package                  $15.00
Snowshoe rental              $10.00
Snowshoe family rate         $25.00
Headlamp rental *new*        $5.00
Advertising:
Parks And Rec Program        Brochure digital only
Brochure:
Back page ad                 $500.00
Full page ad                 $400.00
1/4 page ad (inside cover)   $200.00
1/4 page ad                  $200.00
½ page ad                   $300.00
Fees:
Celtic Fest - event booth    $75.00/booth - reduce,       $85.00
                             smaller
Farmers market vendor        $85.00/season
Event vendor fee             $25.00/booth
Sleigh rides                 $5.00/person
Doggy Dip                    $5.00/dog
 
  2024 2025
                                      2024               2025
PARKS AND RECREATION - FACILITIES AND
EQUIPMENT
Municipal Pool:
 Daily admission:
    Youth/adult                    $3.00
    Lap swim                       $3.00
    Individual season pass (youth/ $50.00
  adult)
    Family season pass             $120.00
 Municipal pool rental                $70.00
 Marlins pool rental (5 days a week)  $1,542.00          Pool closed in 2025 -
                                                          no rental
 Wading pools:
    Daily admission                No fee
    Rental                         $40.00/hour
  
Centennial Softball/Baseball Complex:
 Non-association youth:                                  
    1 field                        $55.00/game        $60.00
    4 fields (tournament)          $275.00/day        $300.00
    8 fields (tournament)          $475.00/day        $500.00
 Non-association Baseball Field       $40.00/day
  Rental (NRC)
 Advertising revenue MYB fee to field                    City 15%
  use
 Concession building lease - annual                      $500.00
 End of year concession clean up      $100.00
  (resp of groups)
 Damage to turf during events from    $100.00
  vehicles
 Repair to turf                       $40.00/hour
 Clean restrooms (resp of groups)     $100.00
 Moorhead Crush - fastpitch field per $40.00             $45.00
  day
 Moorhead Crush - fastpitch per team                     $185.00
 Moorhead Crush - fastpitch field per $55.00             $60.00
  day - Tournament
 Moorhead Softball Association/Adult
  Team/Adult Church:
    Association season fee         $300.00/team       $310.00
    Field rental tournament        $55.00/field/day   $60.00
 Light usage                          $25.00/hour/wheel
 Additional drag                      $25.00/drag
 Additional staff                     $20.00/hour        $25.00
 Moorhead Youth Baseball:             $181.00/team       $185.00
    4 fields (tournament)          $160.00/day        No fee if they do
                                                          fields
    8 fields (tournament)          $300.00/day        No fee if they do
                                                          fields
    Fall league                    $90.00/team
  
 Lacrosse                             $2,825.00
  
Matson Field Reservation:              2024               2025
 American Legion                      $62.00/game
 Amateur baseball (Non Assoc)         $100.00/game
 Youth baseball                       $55.00/game
 Double header                        $100.00/use
 Tournament - 3 or more               $130.00
 Concession building rental           $500.00/concession
                                       stand
 Light usage                          $25.00/hour
 Additional drag                      $25.00/drag
 Additional staff                     $20.00/hour
 
  2024 2025
                                                      2024           2025
ISD #152 Baseball/Softball Fields:
 Set-up fee (drag/paint)                              $50.00/game/
                                                       field
  
Southside Regional Soccer Fields:
 Youth association season fee (restructure per field) $10.00/player/
                                                       season
 Youth soccer tournaments                             $40.00/field/
                                                       day
 Adult master soccer                                  $25.00/player
 Fusion - non association multiple                    $25.00/hour/
                                                       field
 Association baseball: single use                     $45.00/field/
                                                       day
 Association baseball: 4 fields                       $160.00/day
 Nonassociation baseball: single                      $60.00/field/
                                                       day
 Nonassociation baseball: tournament 4                $225.00/day
 Additional drag                                      $25.00/drag
 Additional staff                                     $20.00/hour    $25.00
 Turf damage                                          $100.00
 Turf repair                                          $40.00 per
                                                       hour
 FM Athletics youth football                          $2,825.00/yr   $2,910.00
Park Shelter Reservation:
                                                       $250.00/
                                                       4 hours
 MB and Gooseberry Park large shelter:                $400.00/
                                                       8 hours
                                                       $550.00/11
                                                       hours
                                                       $200.00/day
 Gooseberry Park small shelter                        (an additional
                                                       $25/hour after
                                                       4 hours)
                                                       $250.00/day
 MB Johnson Park small shelter:                       (an additional
                                                       $25/hour after
                                                       4 hours)
 Early open fee (7:00 a.m.)                           $25.00/hour
                                                       $50.00/hour
Neighborhood Recreation Center Rental                  (maximum
                                                       $200.00/day)
Hjemkomst Center:
 Room rentals:
    Oak (Monday - Thursday)                        $145.00 -
                                                       $240.00
    Auditorium and Oak (Monday - Thursday)         $260.00 -
                                                       $520.00
    Auditorium and Oak (Friday - Saturday - Sunday)$600.00 -
                                                       $1,000.00
    Ship gallery (Monday - Thursday)               $250.00
    Ship gallery (Friday - Sunday)                 $275.00
    Auditorium, Oak, and Pine (Friday)             $735.00 -
                                                       $1,150.00
    Auditorium, Oak, and Pine (Saturday)           $735.00 -
                                                       $1,225.00
    Stave Church                                   $300.00
    Festival rate (Scandanavian Fest contract, per $1,725.00      $2,225.00
  day)
    Room deposit (Monday - Thursday)               $100.00/room
    Room deposit (Friday - Saturday)               $500.00
    Stave Church deposit                           $250.00
    Additional set-up                              $50.00
    Multi-media projector                          $30.00 -
                                                       $45.00
    Tenant rate                                                   50%
 
  2024 2025
                              2024             2025
 Hjemkomst Center: (cont.)
    Security (4 hours)     $100.00
    Stage                  $75.00 - $125.00
    Coffee                 $25.00 - $75.00
    Damage/excessive clean $100.00 minimum
    Dishwasher use         $50.00
Advertising:
 Miracle Field
    Fence line advertising $350.00
 Moorhead Golf
    Scorecards             $550.00/Ad       $575.00
    Tee markers            $400.00
Late Penalties:
 Contract:
    10 days overdue        5%
    30 days overdue        10%
    Interest per annum     7%
 
   2024 2025
                                                     2024    2025
PARKS AND RECREATION - GOLFING
Green Fees:  
 Weekday - 9 Holes:
    Junior/senior (restricted before 1:00 p.m.)  $16.00  $17.00
    Adult                                        $24.00  $25.00
 Weekday - 18 Holes:
    Junior/senior (restricted before 1:00 p.m.)  $25.00  $26.00
    Adult                                        $35.00  $38.00
 Weekend - 9 Holes:
    Junior/senior (restricted after 4:00 p.m.)   $16.00  $17.00
    Adult                                        $24.00  $25.00
 Weekend - 18 Holes:
    Junior/senior (restricted after 4:00 p.m.)   $25.00  $26.00
    Adult                                        $35.00  $38.00
 6 Hole (Meadows only)                              $17.00
 Twilight (4:30 p.m. - close Friday/Saturday/Sunday $24.00  $25.00
  only)
    18 hole play required Friday 12:00 noon - 3:00 p.m., Saturday and
  Sunday 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
Frequent Players Card                                $36.00  $40.00
    $3.00 off 9-hole Rounds; $5.00 off 18 Hole Rounds. Good at both
  courses and allows for 3-day advanced tee time reservation.
Season Passes:
 Junior (under 18 years of age), both courses       $250.00 $300.00
 
  2024 2025
                                            2024            2025
 Restricted pass:
    Single course                       $500.00         $550.00
    Both courses                        $600.00         $650.00
    Restricted pass holders must tee off before 1:00 p.m. weekdays and
  after 4:00 p.m. weekends.
 Restricted college pass:
    Single course                       $500.00         $550.00
    Both courses                        $600.00         $650.00
    Restricted college pass holders must tee off before 3:00 p.m. weekdays
  and after 2:00 p.m. weekends.
 Non-restricted pass:
    Single course                       $700.00         $750.00
    Both courses                        $800.00         $850.00
 Household:
    Single course                       $1,125.00       $1225.00
    Both courses                        $1,225.00       $1325.00
 Gold pass                                 $1,600.00       $1700.00
Cart Rentals:
 Village Green/Meadows:
    6 holes                             $8.00/person
    9 holes                             $11.00/person   $12.00
    18 holes                            $18.00/person   $19.00
Pull Cart Fee (per cart)                    $3.00           $5.00
Golf Club Rental                            $7.00           $10.00
Private Cart Use:
 Annual                                    $380.00         $425.00
Driving Range:
 Jr. basket                                $3.50           $4.00
 Basket                                    $7.00           $8.00
 Punch card (30 punches)                   $140.00         $160.00
Tournament Fees:
 9 holes                                   $15.00 - $23.00 $17.00 - $25.00
 Weekday 18 holes                          $23.00 - $33.00 $26.00 - $26.00
Course Improvements Surcharge: (included in
cost of green fee or pass)
 9 holes                                   $0.75
 18 holes                                  $1.00
 Per pass                                  $30.00
Morning special:                            $35.00          $36.00
 
 
                         2024        2025
PEST CONTROL
Pest Control:                        
Animal control           $0.50
Right-of-way maintenance 1.70
Mosquito control         1.06
Pest control             $3.26/month
 
PLANNING AND ZONING 2024 2025
PLANNING AND ZONING                 2024                                   2025
General:                                                                   
Annexation request                  $500.00
Comprehensive Plan map amendment    $250.00
Combined comprehensive plan map     $400.00
amendment/rezoning request
Conditional use permit/variance/    $200.00
appeal
Combined conditional use permit/    $300.00
variance
House moving request (within City   $150.00
limits)
Provisional use appeal              $175.00
Zoning amendment (text or map)      $250.00
Planned unit development (PUD)      $300.00
Planned unit development (PUD)      $300.00
amendment
Signs:
Portable and high impact signs:
Sign placement fee                  $15.00
Permanent signs                     $25.00
Subdivisions:
Plats/replats (subdivision of land) $500.00
Minor subdivision                   $250.00
Administrative Subdivisions:
                                    $100.00 for first adjustment. Multiple
Boundary line adjustment            adjustments which are adjacent and on
                                    the same survey are no additional cost
                                    $100.00 for first split. Multiple
Single parcel split (twinhome)      splits which are adjacent and on the
                                    same survey are no additional cost
Vacations:
Vacation (right-of-way, easements)  $350.00/application
 
 2024 2025
POLICE DEPARTMENT
                          2024                       2025
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Animal Control:
Licenses:
Dogs and cats             $5.00
Dogs and cats spayed and  $5.00
neutered
Room/board:
Dogs                      $30.00 plus tax/day        $31.00
Cats                      $23.00plus tax/day         $24.00
Impound:
Spayed/neutered           $40.00
Non-spayed/neutered       $40.00
No license penalty fee    $50.00
Potentially dangerous dog $200.00
Dangerous dog             $500.00
registration
General:
Incident reports (1 copy  $0.25/page black and white
free to victim of report) copies
Handling fee              $ 2.00
Record checks (fee for
staff locating records    $10.00
per citizen request)
CD                        $5.00
DVD                       $5.00
USB                                                  $5.00
Photos                    $5.00 plus extra cost of   $5.00 plus actual costs of
                          reprints                   reprints
Digital photos            $5.00 plus $0.50/page
911 type transcripts      $30.00/hour (1 hour
                          minimum)
Audio recording           $30.00/hour (1 hour
transcribed               minimum)
Staff time - data
requests (to include BWC/                            $30.00
MVR)
Server training           $15.00
ATV permits (3 year)      $30.00
More than three (3)
unfounded alarms in an    $150.00 per alarm call
Alarm Period
Impound Fees              $120.00
                         $25.00/day storage charge
Possible additional charges by the towing firm for extra work performed to
complete the impound, e.g., dollying, winching, etc.
Parking:
Parking violations        $25.00
Late penalty:
7 - 14 days               $10.00
14 - 30 days              $10.00
Over 30 days              $10.00
Fire lane parking         $40.00
violation
Late penalty:
7 - 14 days               $10.00
14 - 30 days              $10.00
Over 30 days              $10.00
Handicap parking          $200.00
violation
Late penalty:
7 - 14 days               $25.00
14 - 30 days              $25.00
Over 30 days              $25.00
Residential parking       $25.00
permit replacement fee
Graffiti removal          Actual cost
MN Crime Free Multi-      $50.00
Housing Program class
Police Services For
Private Events:
Sporting events           Actual employee cost with
                          benefits/hour
Traffic control           Actual employee cost with
                          benefits/hour
Parades/dances            Actual employee cost with
                          benefits/hour
All other                 Actual employee cost with
                          benefits/hour
 
 
SANITATION
Commercial Garbage Service:
            Collection Frequency - 2024
Cubic Yards Once     2x Week 3x Week 4x Week 5x Week 6x Week
            Per Week
            Collection Frequency - 2024
Cubic Yards Once     2x Week 3x Week 4x Week 5x Week 6x Week
            Per Week
1           $45.30   $79.06  $113.08 $147.08 $181.12 $215.13
2           $56.67   $100.69 $144.71 $188.73 $232.75 $276.78
3           $71.33   $125.36 $179.39 $233.42 $287.44 $341.45
4           $85.22   $149.25 $213.27 $277.30 $341.32 $405.27
6           $111.94  $195.96 $280.00 $364.03 $448.05 $531.46
8           $139.71  $243.74 $347.78 $451.81 $555.85 $659.87
 
           Collection Frequency - 2025
Cubic Yards Once     2x Week 3x Week 4x Week 5x Week 6x Week
            Per Week
           Collection Frequency - 2025
Cubic Yards Once     2x Week 3x Week 4x Week 5x Week 6x Week
            Per Week
1           $46.83   $82.22  $117.60 $152.96 $188.36 $223.74
2           $58.94   $104.72 $150.50 $196.28 $242.06 $287.85
3           $74.18   $130.37 $186.57 $242.76 $298.94 $355.11
4           $88.63   $155.22 $221.80 $288.39 $354.97 $421.48
6           $116.42  $203.80 $291.20 $378.59 $465.97 $552.72
8           $145.30  $253.49 $361.69 $469.88 $578.08 $686.26
 
  2024 2025
                                                                  2024     2025
Extra Container Dumps:
 2 yard                                                          $22.00
 3 yard                                                          $33.00
 4 yard                                                          $44.00
 6 yard                                                          $66.00
  
Miscellaneous Commercial Charges:
 Small business (96 gallon cart)                                 $25.00
 Container drop off (1 YD - 8 YD)                                $35.00
 Container exchange (1 YD - 8 YD)                                $35.00
 Container cleaning                                              $25.00   $35.00
 Dumpster return trip fee                                        $25.00
 Dumpster moving fee (per tip to allow dumping)                  $15.00
Roll-Off Containers (Trash, Mixed Trash/Building Materials):                
 Roll-off containing trash only:
    Container rental (per week after 2 weeks)                 $ 50.00
    + Trip fee                                                $200.00/
                                                                  trip
    + Disposal fee (minimum fee):
       Up to 4 tons                                        $212.00  $224.00
       Up to 6 tons                                        $318.00  $336.00
       Up to 8 tons                                        $425.00  $448.00
       Additional per ton                                  $53.00
    + Overhead fee                                            10%
    + Solid Waste Management Tax (of container rent, trip and 17%
  disposal)
 Roll-off containing mixed trash/building materials:
    Container rental (per week after 2 weeks)                 $50.00
    + Trip fee                                                $200.00/ $210.00
                                                                  trip
    + Disposal fee (minimum fee):
       Up to 4 tons                                        $400.00  $500.00
       Up to 6 tons                                        $600.00  $750.00
       Up to 8 tons                                        $800.00  $1,000.00
       Additional per ton                                  $59.00
    + Overhead fee                                            10%
    + Solid Waste Management Tax (of container rent, trip and 17%
  disposal)
Compactor Containers (Stationary):
 + Container rent                                                $2.50/
                                                                  c.y.
 + Trip fee                                                      $200.00/ $210.00
                                                                  trip
 + Disposal fee                                                  $12.00/
                                                                  c.y.
 + Overhead fee                                                  10%
 + Solid Waste Management Tax (of container rent, trip and       17%
  disposal)
 Demolition materials roll-off (no trash):
    Trip fee                                                  $200.00  $210.00
    Disposal costs (per yard)                                 $15.65   $16.00
    Overhead fee                                              10%
    Solid waste management fee (per noncompacted c.y.)        $0.60
    Container rental (per week after 2 weeks)                 $50.00
 
Residential Garbage Service - Monthly Rates (Solid Waste Tax of 9.75% 2024 2025
will be added to the rates below):
Residential Garbage Service - Monthly Rates
(Solid Waste Tax of 9.75% will be added to the    2024                   2025
rates below):
 48 gallon tote                                  $10.86                 $11.29
 64 gallon tote                                  $13.50                 $14.04
 96 gallon tote                                  $19.08                 $19.84
 Apartments                                      $10.86                 $11.29
 *For multiple totes, add monthly charges for each to determine total monthly
  charge
  
 Recycling (non-taxable fee)                     $4.84                  $5.03
 Recycling multi-family residential (non-taxable $4.84                  $5.03
  fee)
 Prepaid yellow bags                             $30.00/approx. 10 bags
 Extra garbage not in prepaid yellow bags        $20.00 minimum
 Extra garbage in tote above rim of container    $20.00 minimum
 Return to pick up tote not at curb              $20.00
 Tote clean-up                                   $20.00                 $25.00
 Tote exchanges (homeowner picked up at          $15.00
  sanitation)
 Tote exchanges (sanitation delivers to curb)    $25.00
 
Compost Site Charges: 2024 2025
Compost Site Charges:                        2024                        2025
 Compost (free to Clay County residents, 2  $10.00/yard                  
  yard maximum)
 Black dirt (as available)                  $10.00/yard                  
 Ground wood chips                          Free                         
 Street sweepings (unscreened)              $1.00/yard
 Street sweepings (screened)                $3.00/yard
 Yard waste brought from Clay County cities $6.00                       $6.50
                                                                       
Miscellaneous Charges:
 Curbside pick up of extra items            $25.00 (plus disposal cost)  
 Mattresses/box springs                     $16.00                       
 Furniture, per piece                       $16.00                       
 Appliances                                 $30.00                       
 Appliances with freon                      $35.00                      $40.00
                                                                        
 Non-Residents                        Double above rates        
 
   2024 2025
                                   2024              2025
WASTEWATER
Wastewater Disposal:
 Residential customer charge      $22.42/month      $23.54/month
 Residential flow charge          $2.82/CCF         $2.96/CCF
                                  $3.77/1,000 gal   $3.96/1,000 gal
 
  Volume charges are based on actual monthly water use. Volume charges are
  based on the lesser of actual monthly water use or a maximum of 1.5 times
 the average water use of November, December, January, February, March, and
  April, excluding months with no usage. Monthly water use is assumed to be
  600 CF for new customers with no water use for some or all winter months,
  and customers without water service.
 
 Multiple family tenant           $22.42/month      $23.54/month
 Multiple family dwelling         $2.82/CCF            $2.96/CCF
                                  $3.77/1,000 gal      $3.96/1,000 gal
 
  Volume charges are based on actual monthly water use. Wastewater charges
 are not applied to (or credits may be issued for) separately metered, non-
  sewered water use.         
 
 Commercial customer charge       $22.42/month      $23.54/month
 Commercial flow charge           $2.82/CCF         $2.96/CCF
                                  $3.77/1,000 gal   $3.96/1,000 gal
 
  Volume charges are based on actual monthly water use. Wastewater charges
 are not applied to (or credits may be issued for) separately metered, non-
  sewered water use.         
                                                    
 Industrial:                                        
    Customer charge            $22.42/month      $23.54/month
    Flow charge                $3,675.68 /MG     $3,859.46/MG
    BOD surcharge1             $820.55/1,000 lbs $861.58/1,000 lbs
    BOD surcharge2             $655.29/1,000 lbs $688.05/1,000 lbs
    TSS surcharge              -/1,000 lbs       -
 1BOD and TSS surcharges apply to loadings at concentrations of 300 - 1,000
  mg/L.
 2BOD surcharge applies to loadings at concentrations greater than 1,000 mg/
  L.
                                                    
Sanitary Sewer Connection Charges:                   
 Based on water meter size. Fee applies to a new connection, or existing
  connection if the water meter size is increased.
 5/8 and 3/4 inch water meter     $477.41           $491.73
 1 inch water meter               $668.37           $688.42
 1-1/2 inch water meter           $859.33           $885.11
 2 inch water meter               $1,384.47         $1,426.00
 3 inch water meter               $5,251.46         $5,409.00
 4 inch water meter               $6,683.67         $6,884.18
 6 inch water meter               $10,025.51        $10,326.28
 8 inch water meter               $13,844.75        $14,260.09
 
Sump Pump Program Waivers:
 Seasonal waiver                  $30.00/year
 Non-seasonal waiver              No charge
 
                                         2024                 2025
  
Stormwater Utility:
 Residential                              $10.31/month         $10.41/month
 Multiple family tenant                   10.21/month
 Commercial/industrial                    10.31/base unit      10.41/base unit
 Commercial/industrial minimum               2 base units   2 base units
 Commercial/industrial maximum            23 base units        25
 Commercial/industrial minimum            $20.62/month         $20.82
 Commercial/industrial maximum            $237.13/month        $260.25/month
  
 A base unit is the average impervious surface area associated with a single
  family residential property.      
  
Hauled Wastewater/Septage Disposal Service $75.00/1,000 gallons
Charge
  
Equipment Rates (one hour minimum):
 Combination jet/vac truck and operators  $350.00/hour
  (landfill tip fee billed separately)
 Pressure jet machine w/service truck and $140.00/hour
  operators
 Semitractor w/tanker and operator        $170.00/hour
 Sludge applicator and operator           $210.00/hour
 14" Crisafulli pump with tractor         $200.00/hour
 6" pump                                  $200.00/hour
 4" pump                                  $125.00/hour
 3" pump                                  $100.00/hour
 2" pump                                  $75.00/hour
 300 kW generator                         $90.00/hour
 135 kW generator                         $60.00/hour
 25 - 60 kW generator                     $30.00/hour
 Portable compressor                      $42.00/hour
  
Sewer Plugs (one week minimum):
 42" - 60"                                $150.00/week
 30" - 42"                                $100.00/week
 15" - 24"                                $50.00/week
 6" - 12"                                 $25.00/week
  
Wastewater Testing And Analysis:
 BOD5 (total and/or carbonaceous)*        $39.00
 Total suspended solids*                  $27.00
 pH                                       $16.00
 Ammonia nitrogen*                        $31.00
 Sample collection fee**                  $40.00
 * Certified analytes.
 ** Applies to samples picked up by WWSD staff within a 10 mile radius of the
  WWTF.
                                                              
 Sample analysis for regulatory reports not prepared by the City will not be
  performed.
 
 
                     2024        2025
Street Light Utility             
 Residential        $4.00/month  
 Multiple Family    $4.00/month  
 All Others         $4.00/month  
 
(Ord. 2017-13, 11-13-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-05, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2020-13, 12-14-
2020; Ord. 2021-18, 12-13-2021; Ord. 2022-02, 3-28-2022; Ord. 2022-21, 11-14-
2022; Ord. 2022-24, 12-12-2022; Ord. 2023-01, 1-23-2023; Ord. 2023-11, 12-11-
2023; Ord. 2024-12, 12-9-2024; Ord. 2025-05, 4-28-2025)
 
 
 
